RISK FACTORS Certain of the statements below are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. See Forward-Looking Statements on page 6. The following discussion sets forth certain risks that the Company believes could cause its actual future results to differ materially from expected or historical results. However, the discussion below is not exhaustive, and other factors could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results. These factors include, natural disasters, acts of terrorism and epidemics and the factors listed under Forward-Looking Statements on page 6, among others. The Company’s financial condition is dependent upon and could be adversely affected by the extent to which management can successfully manage interest rate risks. The majority of the Company’s earnings are generated from the spread between the Company’s interest earning assets (primarily based on CP, the prime rate, or the 91-day Treasury Bill rate) and its funding costs (primarily based on LIBOR or CP). The success of the Company is dependent upon management’s ability to identify properly and respond promptly to changes in interest rate conditions. Particularly in the current market environment, which has been characterized by dislocation, illiquidity and government intervention, changes in the interest rate environment can be difficult to predict and the Company’s ability to respond to changes after they occur is hampered by market constraints, legislation and the terms of the Company’s existing student loan assets. As a result, changes in the spread between the interest rates earned on the Company’s assets and incurred on the Company’s liabilities could have an adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The Company regularly monitors interest rates and may enter into interest rate derivative agreements in an effort to manage its interest rate risk exposure. The Company’s derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting under ASC 815, and consequently, the change in fair value of these derivative instruments is included in the Company's earnings. Changes in market assumptions regarding future interest rates could significantly impact the valuation of the Company's derivative instruments and, accordingly, impact the Company’s financial position and results of operations. The Company's interest rate risk management activities could expose the Company to losses if future events differ from certain of the Company’s assumptions about the future regulatory and credit environment. If the Company’s economic hedging activities are not appropriately monitored or executed, these activities may not effectively mitigate its interest rate sensitivity or have the desired impact on its results of operations or financial condition. One of the Company’s objectives in determining the appropriate mix of funding is to match the weighted average life of its loan assets with that of its borrowings. However, market constraints and the fact that the Company cannot always predict the speed at which borrowers repay their loans generally make obtaining a perfect match very difficult and cost-prohibitive. In addition, credit premiums earned on the Company’s loan assets are fixed at the time of origination. As a result, the Company’s net interest margin may be adversely affected if the Company cannot refinance its maturing debt at rates that are comparable to its current rates. This is expected to have an increasing impact in 2010 as borrowings mature and are replaced with new borrowings under the Company’s Amended and Restated Omnibus Credit Agreement with higher funding costs. 54 The Company’s business operations are dependent upon Citigroup and any change that impacts Citigroup’s involvement in the Company could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and operations. Citigroup indirectly owns 80% of the Company’s common stock. Through various subsidiaries, Citigroup serves as the Company’s: · Lender –At December 31, 2009, the Company had outstanding borrowings of $9.5 billion under the Original Omnibus Credit Agreement. The Amended and Restated Omnibus Credit Agreement will provide up to $6.6 billion of additional funding through December 30, 2010 and all new borrowings will be due and payable on or before this date. · Trustee – An affiliate of Citigroup acts as eligible lender trustee for the Company pursuant to a trust agreement since the Company does not meet the definition of an eligible lender in the Higher Education Act. · Originating Lender – The Company originates its private education loans through an agreement with an affiliate of Citigroup, under its authority as a federally chartered bank, providing certain benefits to which the Company would not otherwise be entitled. The Company subsequently acquires such loans pursuant to the terms of a separate agreement with the affiliate. · Service Provider – The majority of the work to originate and service the Company’s FFEL Program and private education loans is performed by an affiliate of Citigroup. Citigroup also provides many other services to the Company, including, but not limited to, cash management, tax return preparation, data processing, telecommunications, payroll processing and benefits administration. These arrangements provide economies of scale that significantly reduce the Company’s operating expenses. The Amended and Restated Omnibus Credit Agreement contains a provision that if a change of control were to occur which results in an entity other than CBNA or its affiliates owning more than 50% of the voting equity interest in the Company, all outstanding borrowings under the Original Omnibus Credit Agreement and all new borrowings under the Amended and Restated Omnibus Credit Agreement would become due and payable immediately. The agreements governing Citigroup’s role as originating lender and servicer for the Company contain provisions that would terminate the agreements if an event that results in a change in control were to take place. 55 The Company has outsourced a significant portion of its overall operations to certain affiliates and third parties. The Company’s business operations could be adversely impacted if any of the existing agreements with these service providers was terminated or could not be renewed with substantially similar terms. In addition, the Company is subject to the risk that these providers may not continue to provide the level of service that is needed to effectively operate the Company’s business, including timely response to changes in the Company’s demand for services. If any of these risks were to be realized, and assuming similar agreements with service providers could not be established, the Company could experience interruptions in operations that could negatively impact the Company’s ability to meet customer demand for loan originations and disbursements, damage its relationships with customers, and reduce its market share, all of which could materially adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. In January 2009, Citigroup announced that it was realigning its structure into two distinct businesses for management reporting purposes: Citicorp, which is composed of Citigroup’s core businesses, and Citi Holdings, in which the Company is now included, which is composed of non-core businesses. Citigroup intends to exit the Citi Holdings’ businesses as quickly as practicable, yet possible in an economically rational manner through business divestitures, portfolio run-off, and asset sales, and has made substantial progress divesting and exiting businesses from Citi Holdings, having completed or announced 18 divestitures in 2009. The Company’s management is currently working with Citi Holdings’ management to provide the information necessary to support Citi Holdings’ efforts to explore possible disposition and combination alternatives with regard to its ownership in the Company. These efforts could result in a change in ownership of the Company, including, among other possibilities, an eventual sale of all or part of Citigroup’s ownership in the Company, or of all or part of the Company, to an unaffiliated third party. The Company does not know how a potential disposition of its ownership would affect the Company's business or its operations, although given the various relationships between Citigroup and the Company the effect could be material and adverse. Among other things, any disposition of its ownership in the Company by Citigroup that results in Citigroup or any of its subsidiaries owning less than 50% of the voting equity interest in the Company could result in the termination of certain agreements, including the Company’s servicing and origination agreements. If a disposition or combination event results in an entity other than CBNA or its affiliates owning more than 50% of the voting equity interest in the Company, all outstanding borrowings under the Original Omnibus Credit Agreement and all new borrowings under the Amended and Restated Omnibus Credit Agreement would become due and payable immediately. The Company’s business operations could be materially and adversely impacted if any of these agreements cannot be replaced with agreements with substantially similar or more favorable terms. 56 Liquidity is essential to the Company’s business, and the Company relies on external sources, including the Omnibus Credit Agreement, capital markets, and government programs to fund its balance sheet. Failure to secure cost-effective funding would adversely impact the Company’s ability to fund student loan originations and could materially increase the Company’s cost of funds. Uninterrupted access to liquidity is essential to the Company’s business. The Company’s liquidity and funding has been, and could continue to be, materially adversely affected by factors the Company cannot control, such as the continued general disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the financial services industry in general. The Company’s Amended and Restated Omnibus Credit Agreement provides funding through December 30, 2010, however the cost of funding under this agreement is significantly higher than the borrowings that are expected to mature over the next twelve months. This will further compress the Company’s net interest margin. Unless the Company is able to identify and implement other funding alternatives, maturing borrowings will need to be replaced with new borrowings under this agreement at higher rates. In addition, before the end of 2010, the Company will need to negotiate an extension to this agreement with CBNA or enter into one or more alternative funding arrangements in order to maintain adequate liquidity in 2011. The Amended and Restated Omnibus Credit Agreement also requires a comprehensive package of representations, warranties, conditions, covenants (including a borrowing base and various other financial covenants) and events of default. The Amended and Restated Omnibus Credit Agreement supersedes and replaces in its entirety the Omnibus Credit Agreement, dated November 30, 2000, between the Company and CBNA, as amended (the Original Omnibus Credit Agreement). At December 31, 2009, the Company had $9.5 billion of outstanding borrowings made under the Original Omnibus Credit Agreement which will continue to mature based on their originally contracted maturities, unless a change of control or an event of default, as defined by the Amended and Restated Omnibus Credit Agreement, occurs. A change of control is defined as any event that results in an entity other than CBNA or its affiliates owning more than 50% of the voting equity interest in the Company. The Company is part of a group of businesses within Citigroup, referred to as Citi Holdings. Citigroup intends to exit these businesses as quickly as practicable, yet possible in an economically rational manner through business divestitures, portfolio run-off and asset sales. The Company’s management is currently working with Citi Holdings to provide information necessary to support Citi Holdings’ efforts to explore possible disposition and combination alternatives with regard to its ownership in the Company. If a change of control or an event of default (certain of which require explicit action by CBNA to effect an acceleration) under the Amended and Restated Omnibus Credit Agreement were to occur, all outstanding borrowings under the Original Omnibus Credit Agreement and all new borrowings under the Amended and Restated Omnibus Credit Agreement would become due and payable immediately. In either event, the Company would no longer have a guaranteed funding source, which would have a material adverse effect on, among other things, the Company's ability to originate new loans, repay its debt obligations, fund business operations and maintain the current level of profitability. 57 In addition, since the latter half of 2007, the dislocation and illiquidity in the asset-backed securities and credit markets have adversely impacted the Company’s securitization activities. To the extent that these market conditions continue, they are likely to have a further adverse impact on the Company’s ability to execute future securitization transactions that provide favorable pricing. Current market conditions have impeded the Company’s ability to complete off-balance sheet securitization transactions that result in a gain, and have had a negative impact on credit premiums on secured borrowings through on-balance sheet securitizations. In addition, the current economic downturn and net interest margin compression between the Company’s interest earning assets (primarily based on CP, the prime rate, or the 91-day Treasury Bill rate) and its funding costs (primarily based on LIBOR, though some are based on CP and the prime rate) could adversely affect existing securitization trusts sponsored by the Company. If any of these trusts were to default on its obligations to noteholders, the Company’s ability to execute future securitization transactions would be negatively affected. In addition to funding available to the Company under the Amended and Restated Omnibus Credit Agreement and through loan securitizations, the Company has further diversified its sources of funding, and continues to seek additional alternative sources of funding. Since December 2008, the Company has been utilizing funding available under the Participation Program. In the second quarter of 2009, the Company began selling eligible loans to the Department under the Purchase Program. These programs are only approved through the remainder of the 2009-2010 academic year. After such time, the Company may need to identify other alternative sources of funding, which may not be available on favorable pricing or terms, if at all. During the second quarter of 2009, the Company also accessed additional funding through the Conduit. Funding for the Conduit will be provided by the capital markets. In the event the commercial paper issued by the Conduit cannot be reissued or “rolled” at maturity and the Conduit does not have sufficient cash to repay investors, the Department has committed to provide liquidity to the Conduit by entering into forward purchase agreements to purchase the eligible student loans backing the Conduit at a predetermined price. The predetermined price represents a discount to the principal balance of the loans. Accordingly, a sale of loans to the Department would result in a loss to the Company and negatively impact its results of operations. 58 Our business is subject to extensive regulation and recent market disruptions have led to proposals for new laws and regulations, or changes to existing laws and regulations. As a participant in the financial services industry, the Company is subject to extensive regulation. In addition, as a result of the current economic and market downturn, there has been increased discussion of, and calls for, additional legislative changes and increased scrutiny from a variety of regulators. New laws or regulations, or changes in enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to the Company’s business, may adversely affect the Company. Legislative or regulatory changes could lead to business disruptions, impact the value of assets that the Company holds or the scope or profitability of its business activities, require the Company to change certain of its business practices and expose the Company to additional costs (including compliance costs) and liabilities. For example, private student loan forbearance policies at banks and other financial institutions, including The Student Loan Corporation, are subject to various regulatory requirements. In view of the current regulatory envirnoment, the Company is likely to implement changes to the Company’s private education loan loss mitigation programs including, amount other things, that participation by borrowers in private education loan forbearance and loss mitigation programs are subject to more rigorous requirements, that shorter forbearance periods be granted and that minimum periods of payment performance be required between grants of forbearance. The Company expects that these changes, when implemented, will materially increase net credit losses attributable to private education loans. Other regulatory changes currently being considered include financial institution regulatory changes by Congress, which, if enacted into law, would have material effects on how consumer credit products are offered, advertised, and regulated, and changes by the Department to rules and regulations over the Higher Education Act. The Company’s business and earnings are affected by the fiscal policies adopted by regulatory authorities of the United States. For example, policies of the Federal Reserve Board directly influence the rate of interest paid by commercial banks, including CBNA, the Company’s primary funding source, on its interest-bearing deposits. This may affect the Company’s cost of borrowing from CBNA, and also may affect the value of financial instruments, including retained interests in securitizations and assets held for sale by the Company. In addition, such changes in fiscal policy may adversely affect the ability of the Company’s borrowers to repay their loans on a timely basis and the ability of prospective borrowers to qualify for loans. If any of these or similar types of regulatory changes were to be adopted, they could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. For further information on the impact of other recent legislative and regulatory activities, see Legislation and Regulations on page 38. 59 Recent governmental proposals could end government support for financial institutions that make student loans which would have a significant adverse effect on the Company’s business. On February 26, 2009, President Obama released a summary of his 2010 proposed budget initiatives. The President’s proposal asks the Congress to end government support for financial institutions which make student loans. If the President's proposals are enacted into law, student lenders would cease making FFEL Program loans in July of 2010. The House and Senate passed the Full Year 2009 budget resolution (S. Con. Res 13) on April 29, 2009. The resolution includes the President’s proposals related to student lending, although further legislation would be required in order to effect any changes to the FFEL Program. In September 2009, H.R. 3221, the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 2009, was approved by the House of Representatives. H.R. 3221 would implement substantially all of the President’s proposals and, most notably, would convert all new federal student lending on or after July 1, 2010 to the Federal Direct Loan Program. H.R. 3221 also contains a provision which attempts to provide a solution for the net interest margin compression experienced by the Company and other holders of FFEL Program loans as a result of the divergence between CP and LIBOR. The provision would allow holders to elect to use, for calendar quarters beginning January 1, 2010, the 1-month LIBOR index in lieu of the current 90-day Commercial Paper index. A loan holder’s choice under this provision would be irrevocable. The Senate has not yet introduced a companion bill. Various industry groups have proposed alternatives to the President’s proposal which would preserve the FFEL Program, mainly by extending the Participation and Purchase Programs and utilizing existing private lenders to service new originations. The Company believes that these proposals would provide cost savings similar to the President’s proposal, due to the government’s lower cost of funds, while preserving for consumers the choice of originating lenders and the benefits of private sector loan servicing. In short, significant changes to the FFEL Program are likely, although as of December 31, 2009 no action had been taken on the legislative proposals to end the FFEL Program nor had any extension of the ECASLA law been enacted. 60 In addition, the Company is a leading originator and owner of student loans insured under the Higher Education Act. The Company’s financial results and business are largely affected by the provisions of the Higher Education Act. Amendments to the Higher Education Act may be implemented from time to time. New legislation could impact the Company’s products, its industry or otherwise affect its operations and the environment in which it operates in substantial and unpredictable ways. In recent years, many changes to the Higher Education Act have been implemented that adversely impact the operating environment of the Company and its financial results. Certain amendments to the Higher Education Act governing the FFEL Program have reduced the interest spread earned by holders of FFEL Program guaranteed student loans. The Company is also subject to rules and regulations of the agencies that act as guarantors of the student loans, known as guaranty agencies. In addition, the Company is subject to certain federal and state banking laws, regulations, and examinations, as well as federal and state consumer protection laws and lending regulations, including, specifically with respect to the Company's CitiAssist loan portfolio, certain state usury laws and related regulations, and many other lending laws. These laws and regulations impose substantial requirements upon lenders and servicers involved in consumer finance. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in liability to borrowers, the imposition of civil penalties and potential class action lawsuits. For further information on the impact of these recent legislative activities and other developments, see Legislation and Regulations on page 38. The Company is dependent on funding from the Conduit to fund a significant amount of its loans and any market conditions impacting the Conduit’s ability to provide this funding could result in significant losses to the Company. The Company is utilizing funding from the Conduit for additional liquidity, with $10.2 billion in funding outstanding at December 31, 2009. Funding from the Conduit is provided indirectly by the capital markets through the sale to private investors of government back-stopped asset-backed commercial paper, thereby providing financing at a cost based on market rates. The Company receives funding equal to 97% of the principal and interest to be capitalized of the pledged student loans. The Conduit program expires in January 2014. The commercial paper issued by the Conduit has short-term maturities generally ranging up to 90 days. In the event the commercial paper issued by the Conduit cannot be reissued at maturity and the Conduit does not have sufficient cash to repay investors, the FFB has committed to provide short-term liquidity to the Conduit. If the Conduit is not able to issue sufficient commercial paper to repay its investors or liquidity advances from the FFB, the Company can either secure alternative financing and repay its Conduit borrowings or sell the pledged student loans to the Department at a predetermined price equal to either 97% or 100% of the accrued interest and outstanding principal of pledged loans, depending on first disbursement date and certain other loan criteria. If the Company were to sell the pledged loans to the Department, it would likely result in a significant loss to the Company. 61 The Company’s profitability could be adversely affected by general economic conditions as well as regional economic trends. Factors that could significantly affect profitability include: · The demand for and interest rates on student loans; · The cost to the Company of funding such loans; · The level and volatility of interest rates and inflation; and · The number of borrowers who are unable to meet their payment obligations. Rising interest rates could reduce demand for student loans, as some prospective borrowers could defer attendance at certain eligible educational institutions or pursue programs at less costly institutions, and thus borrow less, or otherwise determine that the cost of borrowing for higher education is too great. During periods of economic weakness, particularly in the case of high unemployment or high inflation, the relative cost of higher education may increase materially. As a result, some prospective borrowers may defer pursuing higher education until economic conditions improve. Also, the ability of some borrowers to repay their loans on a timely basis may deteriorate, resulting in higher delinquencies and losses. To the extent that weakness in the U.S. economy continues or worsens, the Company may experience an increase in defaults and loan losses and, if the conditions persist for an extended period of time, the Company may exceed contractual maximum portfolio loss limits related to the insurance on its private education loan portfolio. Any of these conditions may be more prevalent in those particular regions of the United States that have been affected by natural disasters or regional economic downturns. If the regions affected were those in which a large segment of the Company’s loans had been originated or its borrowers reside, a disproportionate reduction in new loan originations could occur, accompanied by higher delinquencies and losses. The Company has a high concentration of student loan originations in New York and California, and as such, has a proportionately greater exposure to economic disruptions in these states. The Company’s financial condition is dependent upon and could be adversely affected by the extent to which management can successfully manage credit risks. The Company’s credit risk exposure has been partially mitigated through government guarantees, third-party insurers, and certain school risk-sharing agreements. The Company actively monitors the creditworthiness of its insurers, but in the event that a guarantor, third-party insurer or risk-share school is unable to meet its contractual obligations under the related arrangements, the Company’s financial condition could be adversely affected. 62 At December 31, 2009, NHIC was rated A+/ Negative by Standard & Poor’s and Aa3/Negative by Moody’s. UGCIC is not rated. On February 24, 2009, Moody’s withdrew its rating of both UGCIC and its parent citing business reasons, which Moody’s defines as reasons unrelated to bankruptcy, reorganization status or adequacy of information. AIG, the parent company of UGCIC and NHIC, continues to receive financial support from the US Treasury and the Federal Reserve Bank in support of its financial difficulties. AIG is in the process of restructuring the company. Although, UGCIC and NHIC continue to make claim payments as agreed, any failure of AIG, or sale or restructuring of UGCIC/NHIC, could have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations as it relates to the Company’s UGCIC/NHIC insured loan portfolio. Due to recent regulatory changes and the current economic environment, several student lenders as well as the Company have tightened their underwriting. This decrease in the availability of student loans may adversely impact the financial condition of certain schools with which the Company does business. The current economic environment is also affecting the financial condition of certain schools with which the Company does business, particularly private non-profit schools. The Company’s results could be adversely impacted to the extent that the schools for which it originates loans do not continue as going concerns. In addition, school closings could result in an increase in defaults for the borrowers attending these schools at the time they close and a significant increase in school closings could materially increase the Company’s allowance for loan losses. From April 1997 to 2002, the Company purchased private insurance from RSAUSA. RSAUSA decided to exit the U.S. market and sold RSAUSA in 2007 to Arrowpoint, a company owned and operated by their management and independent directors. Arrowpoint is being operated in a voluntary run-off mode with the objective of successfully meeting policyholder obligations and achieving a solvent run-off. As part of the purchase, Arrowpoint agreed to certain operating restrictions and the appointment of a claims monitor to protect policy holders. Arrowood, the Arrowpoint subsidiary which directly insures the Company's loans, is making claim payments on a regular basis. Neither Arrowpoint nor Arrowood is rated. Any failure of either could have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations as it relates to the Company’s Arrowood insured loan portfolio. 63 The Company’s credit risk exposure is also impacted by the size and performance of the Uninsured CitiAssist Standard and Uninsured CitiAssist Custom loan portfolios that are not originated under a risk-sharing relationship, which has grown over recent years. As of December 31, 2009, the uninsured private education loan portfolio included $193.9 million of higher risk loans made to students attending proprietary schools. Most of these higher risk loans did not follow the Company’s traditional underwriting process. The Company no longer originates Uninsured CitiAssist Custom loans. The Company’s allowance for loan losses is dependent on estimates. These estimates are based on historical experience, adjusted for qualitative factors including changes in recent performance, general economic conditions or applicable laws and regulations. If actual experience varies significantly from historical experience or the Company’s projections of the impact of changes in qualitative factors are inaccurate, the Company’s estimated allowance for loan losses may be insufficient to cover losses inherent in the Company’s portfolio. Future decreases in the volume of student loan originations could adversely affect the financial condition of the Company. Loan origination volume generated by individual schools is primarily dependent on whether the Company appears on the school’s list of lenders, as well as the number of students at that school that need financial aid. Origination volume could be negatively affected by the Company’s determination to suspend lending to certain schools, efforts to implement a more targeted origination strategy for private education loans and withdrawal from the consolidation loan market, although the Company may experience some growth in the markets in which it continues to operate as competitors exit these segments. The Company may be adversely impacted by borrowers’ or schools’ decisions to use competing lenders, each school’s option to choose the Federal Direct Lending Program instead of choosing to participate in the FFEL Program, or a school’s decision to begin making student loans itself. The Company’s ability to maintain or increase market share is largely dependent upon its ability to offer competitively priced, desirable loan products as well as its ability to communicate effectively to prospective borrowers and schools about these products. The Company plans to continue to offer competitively priced products by managing its expenses through economies of scale, which reduce its origination and servicing costs. The Company also plans to expand its electronic communications with prospective borrowers and those that affect their decision making. An inability to achieve these goals could adversely affect the Company’s competitive position in the marketplace. Servicing defects in the Company’s loan portfolio could potentially result in losses. FFEL Program loans that are not originated and serviced in accordance with Department regulations risk loss of guarantee or interest penalties. Non-compliance with Department regulations can also result in the limitation, suspension or termination of the Company from the FFEL Program. Private education loans that are not originated and serviced in accordance with provisions set forth in the respective agreements with private insurers risk cancellation of insurance coverage. In an effort to manage these risks, the Company conducts compliance and process reviews of both the Company’s internal operations and external loan servicers. Servicing failures may have an adverse effect on the Company’s loan losses and, for FFEL Program loans, interest income. 64 Other risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people or systems, or from external events may have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition. The Company is subject to many types of operating risks which include, but are not limited to, risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people or systems, or from external events. These operational risks encompass reputational and franchise elements associated with the Company’s business practices or market conduct. They also include the risk of failing to comply with applicable laws, regulations, regulatory administrative actions or the Company’s internal policies. Given the high volume of transactions at the Company, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and rectified. In addition, the Company’s necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process its transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical system flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. The Company may also be subject to disruptions of its operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond its control (for example, natural disasters, acts of terrorism, epidemics, computer viruses, and electrical/ telecommunications outages), which may give rise to losses in service to borrowers and/or monetary loss to the Company, increasing operating expenses and adversely affecting the Company’s competitive position. All of these risks are also applicable where the Company relies on outside vendors to provide services to it and its borrowers. In the normal course of business the Company is exposed to various legal risks that could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business operations. Various issues may give rise to legal risk and cause harm to the Company and its business prospects. These issues include appropriately dealing with potential conflicts of interest, legal and regulatory requirements, ethical issues, privacy laws and information security policies. Failure to address these issues appropriately could also give rise to litigation claims against the Company, or subject the Company to regulatory enforcement actions, fines and penalties. The CCRA Act and increased funding costs have decreased the profitability of FFEL Program loans. The Company has changed its strategic focus in an effort to address these changes, but there can be no assurance that the Company’s efforts will be successful. The CCRA Act reduced SAP for new originations by 55 basis points for Stafford and Consolidation Loans and 85 basis points for PLUS Loans. In addition, it reduced lender reinsurance from 99% to 97% by eliminating the EP program with a further reduction to 95% for loans originated on or after October 1, 2012, and increased the lender fee from 0.50% to 1.00% for new originations. At the same time, dislocation and illiquidity in the credit markets have significantly increased credit spreads on the Company’s new securitization transactions and borrowings under the Omnibus Credit Agreement. The confluence of these events has made the Company less profitable. 65 In response to these events, the Company has: · Suspended lending at certain schools where loans with lower balances and shorter interest-earning periods currently result in unsatisfactory returns; · · Withdrawn from the consolidation loan markets; · · Reduced certain borrower incentive programs for new originations; and · · Restructured various functional areas of its business and eliminated 215 positions in 2008. If these actions or any future actions that the Company may undertake in an effort to address these events are not successful, the Company’s future profitability may be adversely affected. The Company’s amended Non-Competition Agreement with CBNA and Citigroup provides fewer protections to the Company and may result in competition between the Company and its majority shareholder or other Citigroup affiliates. Effective August 8, 2008, the Company has amended the Non-Competition Agreement among the Company, CBNA and Citigroup to allow CBNA or any of its affiliates to acquire another business engaged in student lending. If the revenues from student lending represent more than 5% of the consolidated revenues of the acquired business, then CBNA or its affiliates are required to cease student lending or use commercially reasonable efforts to sell the acquired student lending business (which sale may be made to the Company) within eight months of the acquisition. If, however, student lending represents 5% or less of the consolidated revenues of the acquired business or if after using commercially reasonable efforts, CBNA or its affiliates are unable to sell the competing business at a price equal to or greater than the implied price, then CBNA or its affiliates may continue to engage in the competing business. Consequently, the Company may face direct competition from its majority shareholder or other Citigroup affiliates, which could have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. 66 Corporate Governance and Controls The Company has a Code of Conduct that expresses the values that drive employee behavior and maintains the Company’s commitment to the highest standards of conduct. The Code of Conduct applies to the Company’s employees, executive officers and directors. In addition, the Company adopted a Code of Ethics for Financial Professionals which applies to all finance, accounting, treasury, tax and investor relations professionals and which supplements the companywide Code of Conduct. Both the Code of Conduct and the Code of Ethics for Financial Professionals can be found on the Company’s website at www.studentloan.com by clicking on the “Investor Relations” link and then clicking on the “Board and Management” link. If the Company makes substantive amendments to its Code of Conduct or Code of Ethics by fraud professionals, or grants any waiver, including any implicit waiver, it will disclose the nature of the amendment or waiver on its website. The Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines and the charter for both the Audit Committee and Compensation Committee are available free of charge on the website or by writing to The Student Loan Corporation, Investor Relations, 750 Washington Boulevard, Stamford, CT 06901. Controls and Procedures Disclosure The Company maintains disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) Rule 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported on a timely basis and that such information is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management, including its Chief Executive Officer, or CEO, and its Chief Financial Officer, or CFO, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. The Company's management, with the participation of the Company’s CEO and CFO, has evaluated the effectiveness of the Company's disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on such evaluation, the Company’s management, including the CEO and CFO, concluded that the Company's disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2009. Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Except as expressly noted below in Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting, there has not been any change in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) during the quarter ended December 31, 2009 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. 67 MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING The management of the Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) promulgated under the Exchange Act. The Company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed under the supervision of the Company’s principal executive and principal financial officers, and effected by the Company’s board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. This process includes those policies and procedures that: · Pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company; · Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with proper authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and · Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect all misstatements. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that (i) controls may become inadequate because of changes in condition, or (ii) the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Material Weakness Related to Accounting for Income Taxes In the process of preparing the Company’s consolidated financial statements for the three months ended March 31, 2009, management identified a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting in the design and monitoring of the Company’s processes to analyze, record, value and reconcile current and deferred income tax accounts. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the Company’s annual or interim financial statements would not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. During the second quarter of 2009, the Company identified additional errors in current and deferred income taxes arising from this material weakness. These errors related to how the Company accounted for and recorded in its income tax returns temporary differences between pretax financial income and taxable income, specifically related to its off-balance sheet securitization transactions. The Company assessed the materiality of the cumulative errors and determined that these errors were immaterial to amounts reported in prior period financial statements. The correction of prior periods for these immaterial errors is reflected in the Company’s Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the second and third quarters of 2009 and this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and will continue to be reflected in the Company’s future Exchange Act reports, as applicable. 68 During 2009, the Company undertook the following steps to improve internal control over processes to analyze, record, value and reconcile current and deferred income tax accounts: · assumed responsibility for calculations of tax reserves previously performed by its tax advisors within Citigroup; · implemented clear policies and sustainable processes for calculating, reconciling and reviewing tax accounts, including increased control over spreadsheets, in an effort to better ensure the accuracy of these accounts; · enhanced communication and cooperation between the Company’s controllers’ group and its tax advisors within Citigroup; · increased the level of resources dedicated to tax accounting and reporting during the fourth quarter of 2009; and · reviewed existing processes for the preparation and review of income tax returns and implemented changes during the fourth quarter of 2009 as necessary. Management evaluated the new controls implemented, as well as pre-existing controls related to accounting for income taxes, and concluded that the controls are designed properly and operating effectively. Based on this review, management believes that the internal controls in place as of December 31, 2009 with respect to processes to analyze, record, value and reconcile current and deferred income tax accounts provide reasonable assurance that tax transactions are properly recorded and disclosed, and that a tax-related material misstatement or omission would be prevented or timely detected by the Company during the preparation of its annual or interim financial statements. Accordingly, management has concluded that the material weakness no longer exists. Management’s Assessment of Internal Control over Financial Reporting The Company’s management assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009. In making this assessment, the Company’s management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control-Integrated Framework. Based on their assessment, management believes that, as of December 31, 2009, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria. The effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting has been audited by KPMG LLP, the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their reports on pages 70 and 71, which expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009. 69 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM – INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING The Board of Directors and Stockholders The Student Loan Corporation: We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of The Student Loan Corporation and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. In our opinion, The Student Loan Corporation and subsidiaries maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of the Company as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2009, and our report dated February 26, 2010 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. /s/ KPMG LLP New York, New York February 26, 2010 70 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM – CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Board of Directors and Stockholders The Student Loan Corporation: We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of The Student Loan Corporation and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2009. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of The Student Loan Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2009, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. As discussed in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, in 2007 the Company changed its methods of accounting for fair value measurements, the fair value option for financial assets and financial liabilities, and uncertainty in income taxes. We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated February 26, 2010 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. /s/ KPMG LLP New York, New York February 26, 2010 71 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Student Loan Corporation and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts) Years ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 NET INTEREST INCOME Interest income $ 780,292 $ 1,215,412 $ 1,563,811 Interest expense (Notes 6 and 10) (502,645 ) (884,113 ) (1,175,164 ) Net interest income 277,647 331,299 388,647 Provision for loan losses (Note 4) (140,852 ) (140,895 ) (59,920 ) Net interest income after provision for loan losses 136,795 190,404 328,727 OTHER INCOME Gains on loans securitized (Note 15) – 1,262 70,814 Gains on loans sold 45,989 2,532 41,044 Fee and other income (Notes 8, 10, 13 and 15) 155,491 101,197 36,301 Total other income 201,480 104,991 148,159 OPERATING EXPENSES Salaries and employee benefits (Notes 10 and 11) 32,134 48,573 61,628 Restructuring and related charges (Note 18) (381 ) 12,389 735 Other expenses (Notes 9 and 10) 106,098 117,764 117,519 Total operating expenses 137,851 178,726 179,882 Income before income taxes 200,424 116,669 297,004 Provision for income taxes (Note 12) 74,752 43,242 111,252 NET INCOME $ 125,672 $ 73,427 $ 185,752 BASIC AND DILUTED EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE Based on 20,000,000 average shares outstanding $ 6.28 $ 3.67 $ 9.29 DIVIDENDS DECLARED AND PAID PER COMMON SHARE $ 2.48 $ 5.72 $ 5.59 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 72 The Student Loan Corporation and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS December 31, (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts) 2009 2008 ASSETS Federally insured student loans (Note 4) $ 17,948,706 $ 18,064,662 Private education loans (Note 4) 7,432,471 5,861,545 Deferred origination and premium costs (Note 4) 548,083 635,449 Allowance for loan losses (Note 4) (149,098 ) (110,329 ) Student loans, net 25,780,162 24,451,327 Other loans and lines of credit (Note 4) 5,616 9,016 Loans held for sale (Notes 1 and 4) 2,409,267 1,072,316 Cash 17,998 595 Residual interests in securitized loans (Note 15) 820,291 942,807 Other assets (Note 5) 1,984,907 1,761,338 Total Assets $ 31,018,241 $ 28,237,399 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Liabilities Short-term borrowings, payable to principal stockholder (Note 6) $ 5,131,000 $ 12,654,200 Short-term secured borrowings, payable to Department of Education (Note 6) 2,066,686 1,002,211 Long-term borrowings, payable to principal stockholder (Note 6) 4,391,000 10,102,000 Long-term secured borrowings (Note 6) 16,999,976 1,727,744 Deferred income taxes (Note 12) 410,546 382,155 Other liabilities (Note 7) 348,612 774,886 Total liabilities 29,347,820 26,643,196 Stockholders’ Equity Preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share; authorized 10,000,000 shares; no shares issued or outstanding – – Common stock, par value $0.01 per share; authorized 50,000,000 shares; 20,000,000 shares issued and outstanding 200 200 Additional paid-in capital 141,869 141,723 Retained earnings 1,528,352 1,452,280 Total stockholders’ equity 1,670,421 1,594,203 Total Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity $ 31,018,241 $ 28,237,399 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 73 The Student Loan Corporation and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Years ended December 31, (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 2009 2008 2007 COMMON STOCK AND ADDITIONAL PAID-IN CAPITAL Balance, beginning of period $ 141,923 $ 141,555 $ 141,524 Capital contributions and other changes 146 368 31 Balance, end of period $ 142,069 $ 141,923 $ 141,555 RETAINED EARNINGS Balance, beginning of period $ 1,452,280 $ 1,493,253 $ 1,418,492 Net income 125,672 73,427 185,752 Cumulative effect of adoption of accounting standard, net of taxes of $506 in 2007 – – 809 Common dividends declared, $2.48, $5.72 and $5.59 per common share in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively (49,600 ) (114,400 ) (111,800 ) Balance, end of period $ 1,528,352 $ 1,452,280 $ 1,493,253 ACCUMULATED OTHER CHANGES IN EQUITY FROM NONOWNER SOURCES Balance, beginning of period $ – $ – $ 809 Net change in unrealized gains on investment securities, net of taxes of $(506) in 2007 (Note 1) – – (809 ) Balance, end of period $ – $ – $ – TOTAL STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY $ 1,670,421 $ 1,594,203 $ 1,634,808 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 74 The Student Loan Corporation and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS Years ended December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2009 2008 2007 Cash flows from operating activities: Net income $ 125,672 $ 73,427 $ 185,752 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash from operating activities: Depreciation and amortization of equipment and computer software 10,338 12,285 14,429 Amortization of deferred loan origination and purchase costs 86,688 96,700 109,728 Accreted interest on residual interests (69,177 ) (65,510 ) (59,177 ) Provision for loan losses 140,852 140,895 59,920 Deferred tax benefit (provision) 28,391 (27,872 ) 13,237 Gains on loans sold and securitized (45,989 ) (3,794 ) (111,858 ) Gain on residual interest valuation (19,564 ) (326,039 ) (2,733 ) Loss (gain) on servicing asset valuation 31,547 (9,021 ) 15,668 Other changes in loans held for sale including loan origination and premium costs (4,391,761 ) (697,690 ) (300,198 ) Proceeds from loans sold and securitized 2,527,737 141,075 232,305 Cash received on residual interests in trading securitized assets 211,258 138,681 65,388 Change in accrued interest receivable (80,067 ) (55,097 ) (187,984 ) Restructuring and related charges (381 ) 12,389 735 Change in other assets 499,342 (317,651 ) (212,875 ) Change in other liabilities (425,747 ) 380,379 (3,697 ) Other non-cash charges 13,626 15,962 – Net cash used in operating activities (1,357,235 ) (490,881 ) (181,360 ) Cash flows from investing activities: Change in loans (1,498,145 ) (5,214,719 ) (5,084,958 ) Change in loan origination and purchase costs 771 (127,209 ) (232,674 ) Proceeds from loans sold and securitized 515,276 1,973,207 4,474,616 Change in restricted cash and cash equivalents (642,921 ) (47,615 ) – Capital expenditures on equipment and computer software (7,617 ) (8,646 ) (6,569 ) Net cash used in investing activities (1,632,636 ) (3,424,982 ) (849,585 ) Cash flows from financing activities: Net change in borrowings payable to principal stockholder with original maturities of three months or less (4,686,200 ) 3,433,200 (4,963,800 ) Proceeds from other short-term borrowings 4,309,862 4,021,812 4,250,000 Repayments of other short-term borrowings (6,256,387 ) (3,008,601 ) (1,250,000 ) Proceeds from long-term borrowings 15,639,570 8,082,620 7,100,000 Repayments of long-term borrowings (5,949,971 ) (8,498,198 ) (4,000,000 ) Dividends paid to stockholders (49,600 ) (114,400 ) (111,800 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 3,007,274 3,916,433 1,024,400 Net increase (decrease) in cash 17,403 570 (6,545 ) Cash - beginning of period 595 25 6,570 Cash - end of period $ 17,998 $ 595 $ 25 Supplemental disclosure: Cash paid for: Interest $ 584,588 $ 905,666 $ 1,168,513 Income taxes, net $ 53,772 $ 52,779 $ 176,049 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 75 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Background The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements of The Student Loan Corporation (the Company), a Delaware corporation, include the accounts of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries: SLC Student Loan Receivables I, Inc., SLC Conduit I LLC and the trusts the Company has formed for its on-balance sheet securitization transactions. SLC Student Loan Receivables I, Inc. is a special-purpose entity formed in 2001 for the purpose of acquiring student loans originated or acquired by the Company and transferring such loans to, and depositing the student loans in, securitization trusts. SLC Conduit I LLC is a limited liability company formed in 2009 for the purpose of acquiring Federal Family Education Loan (FFEL) Program loans originated or acquired by the Company and issuing funding notes to the Department sponsored student loan-backed commercial paper conduit, Straight-A Funding, LLC (the Conduit). Educational Loan Center, Inc., a former subsidiary of the Company, was dissolved on June 30, 2008. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. The Company, which has a trust agreement to originate loans through Citibank, N.A. (CBNA), is an originator, manager and servicer of student loans, including loans made in accordance with federally sponsored guaranteed student loan programs as well as private education loans. CBNA owns 80% of the Company’s outstanding common stock and is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Citigroup Inc. (Citigroup). Basis of Presentation The Company’s accounting policies are in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The Company’s operations are a single segment for financial reporting purposes, as the Company’s only operations consist of originating, managing and servicing student loans. Certain amounts in the prior years’ financial statements and notes have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation. See Note 3 for an understanding of changes to certain previously reported amounts resulting from the correction of immaterial errors. 76 Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles In June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued then authoritative Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 168 The FASB Accounting Standards Codification and the Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, (SFAS 168), now authoritative under FASB Accounting Standards CodificationTM (Codification or ASC) ASC 105-10. This established the ASC as the single source of authoritative GAAP recognized by the FASB to be applied by nongovernmental entities. Rules and interpretive releases of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under authority of federal securities laws are also sources of authoritative GAAP for SEC registrants. The Codification supersedes all existing non-SEC accounting and reporting guidance. All other nongrandfathered, non-SEC accounting literature not included in the Codification has become nonauthoritative. Use of Estimates The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with GAAP requires the Company to make estimates based on assumptions about current and future economic and market conditions (including, but not limited to, credit risk, market liquidity and interest rates) which affect reported amounts and related disclosures in the Company’s financial statements. Although current estimates reflect existing conditions and expected trends, as appropriate, it is reasonably possible that actual conditions in the future could differ from those estimates. Such differences could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. Among other effects, such changes could result in credit losses and expenses in excess of established reserves in the allowance for loan losses and decreases in the fair value of retained interests in its securitized loans in the form of subordinated residual interests (i.e., interest-only strips), servicing rights and, in certain cases, subordinated notes issued by the trusts (collectively, retained interests). Subsequent Events The Company has evaluated subsequent events through February 26, 2010, which is the date its Consolidated Financial Statements were issued. Revenue Recognition Revenues, which include net interest income, fees and gains on loans sold and securitized, if any, are recognized as they are earned. Interest income includes special allowance payments (SAP) from and excess interest payments to the federal government as prescribed under the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended (the Higher Education Act), and is net of amortization of premiums and origination costs. The Company accounts for premiums and origination costs and deferred financing costs in accordance with ASC 310-20. Deferred premiums and origination costs on the Company’s loan portfolio and deferred financing costs are amortized using the interest method and recognized as yield adjustments to net interest income. 77 Loans The Company has a portfolio of student loans originated under the FFEL Program authorized by the U.S. Department of Education (the Department) under the Higher Education Act, which are insured by guaranty agencies (guarantors). The Company recognizes student loan interest income as it is earned. SAP from and excess interest payments to the federal government, if any, are recognized as yield adjustments to interest income. The Company also has a portfolio of private education loans primarily consisting of CitiAssist® loans. Some of those loans are insured against loss by private insurers or covered under other risk-sharing agreements with creditworthy schools. Other loans, including many higher risk loans, are neither insured nor covered under risk-sharing agreements. The Company is exposed to 100% of loss on such loans. Effective January 1, 2008, the Company elected to stop insuring new CitiAssist loan originations. Allowance for Loan Losses The Company has an allowance for loan losses that provides a reserve for estimated losses on: (1) the portion of the FFEL Program loan portfolio that is subject to the risk-sharing provisions of the Higher Education Act and (2) the private education loan portfolio, after considering credit risk insurance coverage obtained from third parties on certain loans, the impact of any risk-sharing agreements with certain schools and counterparty risk ratings. Estimated losses are calculated using historical delinquency and credit loss experience adjusted for aging of the portfolio, market conditions and other factors impacting the portfolio that are not captured by historical trends. These factors include, among other things, internal policy changes, regulatory changes and general economic conditions affecting borrowers, private insurers, risk sharers, and higher education institution clients. Losses that are probable and estimable are expensed currently which increases the provision for loan losses. Actual losses are charged against the reserve as they occur, and subsequent recoveries are credited back to the reserve. The Company ceases to accrue interest income on a student loan when one of the following events occurs: (1) a FFEL Program loan loses its guarantee, (2) an insured private education loan reaches 150 days of delinquency or (3) an uninsured private education loan reaches 90 days of delinquency. Accrual of interest is resumed if the loan guarantee is reinstated or when principal and interest become current again. Interest received on non-accruing loans is recorded directly into interest income. The Company immediately writes off the loan balance corresponding to the unguaranteed portion of FFEL Program loans at the end of the month in which the loan is at least 270 days delinquent and the uninsured portion of private education loans at the end of the month in which the loan is at least 120 days delinquent. The Company also writes off the loan balances for loans in which the guarantee claim is not received for FFEL Program and private education loans after 450 days and 240 days of delinquency, respectively. When loans or portions of loans are written off, the Company reduces interest income for the amounts of accrued, uncollected interest and unamortized deferred premiums and origination costs. The Company’s FFEL Program and private education loans contain terms that allow the borrower to postpone payments while in school or to postpone or reduce payments if they meet certain income or financial hardship criteria. The Company continues to accrue interest income on such loans. This accrued interest increases the borrowers’ unpaid balance. 78 Transfer of Student Loans through Sale or Securitization Whole Loan Sales The Company accounts for its whole loan sales in accordance with the provisions of ASC 860-10-40. In order for a transfer of financial assets to be considered a sale, the assets transferred by the Company must have been isolated from the seller, even in bankruptcy or other receivership, and the purchaser must have the right to pledge or exchange the assets transferred. In addition, the sale accounting rules of ASC 860-10-40-5 requires the Company to relinquish effective control over the loans sold as of the sale date. Loans Securitized The Company uses two distinct methods of accounting for its securitizations. Certain of the Company’s securitizations currently meet the qualifications of ASC 860-10-40-5 to be accounted for as a sale. The qualifications are that the assets transferred are legally isolated from the Company, even in the event of a bankruptcy; that the holders of the beneficial interests are not constrained from pledging or exchanging their interests; and that the transferor does not maintain effective control over the transferred assets. The Company uses a two-step structure with a qualifying special purpose entity (QSPE) to obtain legal isolation. For the Company’s securitizations which are currently accounted for as a sale, referred to as off-balance sheet securitizations, the transferred assets are removed from the consolidated balance sheet and a gain or loss is recognized. The Company’s securitizations that fail to meet the accounting requirements for a sale in accordance with ASC 860-10-40-5 are accounted for as secured borrowings and the transferred assets are consolidated in the Company’s financial statements. These transactions are referred to as on-balance sheet securitizations. See Note 2 for accounting changes which will affect how the Company accounts for its off-balance sheet securitization entities as well as future securitization transactions effecitive January 1, 2010. The Company’s on-balance sheet securitization transactions are collateralized by certain of its student loans, which are recorded in Federally insured student loans and Private education loans, and by accrued interest on the student loans and restricted cash and cash equivalents, which are recorded in Other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Historically, the Company’s off-balance sheet securitizations have resulted in gains and losses recognized at the time of securitization which are reported in Gains on loans securitized. These securitization gains and losses represent the difference between the cost basis of the assets sold and the fair value of the assets received, including, as applicable, cash and retained interests. Retained interests in off-balance sheet securitization trusts are in the form of residual interests, servicing assets, and retained notes. All of the Company’s retained interests are recorded at fair value in accordance with GAAP. Unrealized gains and losses on retained interests are reported in Fee and other income. Accreted interest on residual interests is reported in Interest income. The Company estimates the fair value of the residual interests and servicing assets using an income approach by determining the present value of expected future cash flows using modeling techniques that incorporate management's best estimates of key assumptions, including prepayment speeds, credit losses, borrower benefits and discount rates. 79 Cash is received from the trusts for servicing fee revenues, residual interest distributions and payments of principal and interest on retained notes. Additional information on the Company's securitization activities may be found in Note 15. Loans Financed through Department of Education Programs The Company has funded certain of its FFEL Program loans through the Conduit. The funding received from the Conduit is accounted for as secured borrowings and the student loans pledged as collateral are recorded in Federally insured student loans on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. See Notes 6 and 15 for additional information regarding the Conduit. The Company also obtains short-term debt financing for new FFEL Program Stafford and PLUS loan originations through the Department’s Loan Participation Purchase Program (the Participation Program). The borrowings through the Participation Program are collateralized by the funded FFEL Program Stafford and PLUS loans which are recorded in Loans held for sale on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet. Loans funded under the Participation Program are either sold to the Department pursuant to the Department’s Loan Purchase Commitment Program (the Purchase Program) or refinanced prior to the Participation Program’s expiration. Additional information pertaining to the Company’s borrowings through the Participation Program can be found in Note 6. Loans Held for Sale Loans held for sale are loans that the Company plans to include in off-balance sheet securitization or sale transactions, including loans that the Company originates in anticipation of sale under the Purchase Program. Management continually assesses its future securitization and loan sale plans and may transfer loans or record loans directly into the held for sale portfolio to meet the Company’s anticipated near term sale and securitization requirements. These loans are recorded at the lower of cost, consisting of principal and deferred costs, or fair value evaluated on an aggregate basis. During 2009, loans held for sale were composed of loans to be sold to the Department under the Purchase Program, which provides for a purchase price that is higher than the carrying value of the loans. During 2009 and 2008, the cost of certain loans held for sale exceeded fair value. Accordingly, the Company recorded lower of cost or fair value write downs on these loans held for sale of $2.2 million and $34.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. The write downs related to loans that were transferred from loans held for sale back into the operating loan portfolio during the respective periods. 80 Changes in the Company’s loans held for sale are presented in the table below: Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2009 2008 Balance at beginning of period $ 1,072,316 $ 337,790 Origination and purchases 4,613,839 720,465 Transfers into loans held for sale – 2,418,695 Transfers back into the operating loan portfolio (55,601 ) (2,208,644 ) Loan sales (2,997,024 ) (138,543 ) Fair value write down of loans held for sale (2,185 ) (34,672 ) Other (1) (222,078 ) (22,775 ) Balance at end of period $ 2,409,267 $ 1,072,316 (1) Amount includes borrower principal payments and loan consolidations. Restricted Cash and Cash Equivalents Restricted cash and cash equivalents represents amounts related to the Company’s secured borrowings. This cash must be used to make payments related to the secured borrowings and is classified as a component of Other assets. Amounts on deposit in these accounts represent reserve accounts or are the result of timing differences between when principal and interest is collected on the trust assets and when principal and interest is paid on trust liabilities. Derivatives The Company currently has one cross-currency swap that is intended to manage its exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on its Euro denominated secured borrowing. The Company historically had derivative financial instruments including interest rate swaps and floor options which were intended to economically hedge the interest rate risk inherent in its residual interests and servicing assets in off-balance sheet securitizations. The Company closed out of these positions during the fourth quarter of 2009 in anticipation of accounting changes effective January 1, 2010, which will result in the consolidation of the Company’s previously unconsolidated securitizations and the elimination of the related retained interests. The Company’s derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting under ASC 815 and are carried at fair value in Other assets and Other liabilities with changes in fair value recorded currently in Fee and other income. Internally Developed Software Certain direct costs associated with the development of internal use software are capitalized. The Company capitalizes development costs for internal use software in accordance with the provisions of ASC 350-40. These costs are included in Other assets and are amortized by the straight-line method over the service period, not to exceed ten years. Capitalization of development costs starts after the preliminary project stage is completed and ends when the project is substantially complete and ready for its intended use. Capitalized internally developed software costs are periodically reviewed for impairment. Capitalized costs of projects deemed to be obsolete or abandoned are written off as operating expenses. 81 Employee Benefits Expense The Company’s employee benefits are provided under programs administered and maintained by Citigroup. Employee benefits expense includes prior and current service costs of pension and other postretirement benefit plans, which are accrued on a current basis based on a Citigroup allocation that is applied to employee salary costs. Any pension obligation pertaining to these plans is a liability of Citigroup. Earnings Per Share Basic earnings per common share is computed by dividing income applicable to common stockholders by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the period. In 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company had no securities or other contracts to issue Company common stock that could result in dilution. Income Taxes The Company is included in the consolidated federal income tax return of Citigroup, and is included in certain combined or unitary state/local income or franchise tax returns of Citigroup or its subsidiaries. While the Company is included in these consolidated, combined or unitary returns, it has agreed to pay to CBNA an amount equal to the federal, state and local taxes the Company would have paid had it filed its returns on a separate company basis and the amount, if any, by which the tax liability of any unitary group (of which any Citigroup affiliate other than the Company is a member) is adjusted by virtue of the inclusion of the Company’s activity in the group’s unitary return. CBNA has agreed to pay the Company an amount equal to the tax benefit of the actual tax loss of the Company as if the Company filed a separate return and the amount, if any, by which the tax liability of any unitary group (of which any Citigroup affiliate other than the Company is a member) is adjusted by virtue of the inclusion of the Company’s activity in the group’s unitary return. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recorded for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in the Consolidated Financial Statements or tax returns based upon enacted tax laws and rates. Deferred tax assets are recognized subject to management’s judgment that realization is more likely than not. Since all of the Company’s deferred tax assets are expected to be realized, the Company does not maintain a valuation allowance for these assets, in accordance with ASC 740. ASC 740 sets out a framework for preparers to use to determine the appropriate level of tax reserves to maintain for uncertain tax positions, using a two-step approach wherein a tax benefit is recognized if a position is more-likely-than-not to be sustained. The amount of the benefit is then measured to be the highest tax benefit which is greater than fifty percent likely to be realized. ASC 740 also sets out disclosure requirements to enhance transparency of an entity's tax reserves. 82 Accounting Changes Following the Codification, the FASB will not issue new GAAP in the form of Statements, FASB Staff Positions or Emerging Issues Task Force Abstracts. Instead, it will issue Accounting Standards Updates, which will serve to update the Codification, provide background information about the guidance and provide the basis for conclusions on the changes to the Codification. ASC 105-10 does not change GAAP, it changes the way the guidance is organized and presented. These changes have impacted how the Company references GAAP in its financial statements and in its accounting policies for financial statements issued for interim and annual periods beginning with the period ended September 30, 2009. Subsequent Events In May 2009, the FASB issued then authoritative SFAS No. 165, Subsequent Events (SFAS 165), now authoritative under ASC 855-10. The accounting standard established general standards of accounting for and disclosure of events that occur after the balance sheet date but before the financial statements are issued or are available to be issued. The accounting standard was effective for interim or annual financial periods ending after June 15, 2009. Measurement of Fair Value in Inactive Markets In April 2009, the FASB issued then authoritative FSP FAS 157-4, Determining Fair Value When the Volume and Level of Activity for the Asset or Liability Have Significantly Decreased and Identifying Transactions That Are Not Orderly, now ASC 820-10-35. The change in accounting guidance reaffirms that fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions. This also reaffirms the need to use judgment in determining if a formerly active market has become inactive and in determining fair values when the market has become inactive. The adoption of the change in accounting guidance had no effect on the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. Determining Fair Value in Inactive Markets In October 2008, the FASB issued then authoritative FSP FAS 157-3, Determining Fair Value of Financial Assets When the Market for That Asset is Not Active, now ASC 820-10-35. The FSP clarifies that companies can use internal assumptions to determine the fair value of a financial asset when markets are inactive, and do not necessarily have to rely on broker quotes. This also confirms a joint statement by the FASB and the SEC in which they stated that companies can use internal assumptions when relevant market information does not exist and provides an example of how to determine the fair value for a financial asset in a non-active market. The FASB emphasized that the FSP is not new guidance, but rather clarifies the principles in ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures. The adoption of the change in accounting guidance had no effect on the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. 83 Additional Disclosures for Derivative Instruments On January 1, 2009, the Company adopted then authoritative SFAS No. 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, an amendment to SFAS 133, now ASC 815-10-50. The change in accounting guidance required enhanced disclosures about derivative instruments and hedged items that are accounted for under ASC 815 and related interpretations. No comparative information for periods prior to the effective date is required. See Note 13 for disclosures related to the Company’s hedging activities and derivative instruments. The change in accounting guidance had no impact on how the Company accounts for these instruments. Fair Value Measurements As of January 1, 2007, the Company elected to early-adopt SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS 157), now authoritative under ASC 820. ASC 820 defines fair value, establishes a consistent framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosure requirements about fair value measurements. 2. FUTURE APPLICATION OF ACCOUNTING STANDARDS Elimination of QSPEs and Changes in the Consolidation Model for Variable Interest Entities In June 2009, the FASB issued then authoritative SFAS No. 166, Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets, an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140 (SFAS 166), now authoritative under ASC 860, which eliminates QSPEs from the guidance in ASC 860. This change will have a significant impact on the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements as the Company will lose sale treatment for assets previously sold to QSPEs, as well as for certain future sales. SFAS 166 is effective for the Company on January 1, 2010. Simultaneously, the FASB issued SFAS No. 167, Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R) (SFAS 167), now authoritative under ASC 810-10, which details three key changes to the consolidation model in FASB Interpretation No. 46 (Revised December 2003), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (FIN 46(R)). First, former QSPEs will now be included in the scope of SFAS 167. In addition, the FASB has changed the method of analyzing which party to a variable interest entity (VIE) should consolidate the VIE (known as the primary beneficiary) to a qualitative determination of which party to the VIE has power combined with potentially significant benefits and losses, instead of the current quantitative risks and rewards model. The entity that has power has the ability to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the VIE’s economic performance. Finally, the new standard requires that the primary beneficiary analysis be reevaluated whenever circumstances change. The current rules require reconsideration of the primary beneficiary only when specified reconsideration events occur. 84 As a result of implementing these changes in GAAP, the Company expects to be required to consolidate VIEs and former QSPEs with which it has involvement on January 1, 2010. The Company will consolidate all of the VIEs and former QSPEs by initially measuring the assets and liabilities of the VIEs and former QSPEs at their carrying values (the amounts at which the assets and liabilities would have been carried in the Consolidated Financial Statements, if the Company had always consolidated these VIEs and former QSPEs). The Company expects that the adoption of these accounting standards updates and the associated reconsolidation of its off-balance sheet securitization trusts will result in a net increase in its assets and liabilities of approximately $13.6 billion and $14.0 billion, respectively. The $13.6 billion of assets reflects the reconsolidation of $14.6 billion of loan assets, deferred origination and premium costs and other trust assets, less the elimination of previously recognized retained interests. In addition, the cumulative effect of adopting these new accounting standards updates as of January 1, 2010, based on financial information as of December 31, 2009, has resulted in an estimated aggregate after tax charge to retained earnings of approximately $0.4 billion, reflecting a pretax charge of approximately $0.6 billion primarily related to the establishment of deferred origination costs and loan loss reserves and the reversal of retained interests held and a decrease in related deferred tax liabilities of approximately $0.2 billion. Additional Disclosures Regarding Fair Value Measurements In January 2010, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2010-06, Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements. The ASU requires disclosure of the amounts of significant transfers in and out of Level 1 and 2 fair value measurements and the reasons for the transfers. The disclosures are effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2009. Additionally, disclosures of the gross purchases, sales, issuances and settlements activity in Level 3 fair value measurements will be required for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2010. 85 3. CORRECTION OF IMMATERIAL ERRORS The Company had previously identified certain errors in the tax provision and related accounts from prior periods. The errors primarily related to accounting for state and local income taxes, deferred tax amounts for loan securitizations, and accounting for uncertain tax positions. Certain of these errors were recorded as out of period immaterial adjustments in prior periods. The Company assessed the materiality of these errors and concluded that they are immaterial to amounts reported in prior period financial statements. The correction of these immaterial amounts will continue to be reflected in the Company’s current and future Exchange Act reports. The impact of the correction on the Company’s previously reported Consolidated Statements of Income is provided below. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Year Ended December 31, 2007 (Dollars in thousands) As Reported As Corrected As Reported As Corrected Income Taxes $ 40,714 $ 43,242 $ 114,677 $ 111,252 Net Income 74,806 73,427 182,691 185,752 Basic and Diluted Earnings Per Share $ 3.74 $ 3.67 $ 9.13 $ 9.29 In addition, the Company recorded an increase in its deferred tax liabilities of $140.5 million and a decrease in its current income taxes of $149.7 with a corresponding increase in its retained earnings of $9.2 million in its December 31, 2008 Consolidated Balance Sheet. 4. STUDENT LOANS The Company’s portfolio of student loans consists primarily of loans originated under government guaranteed loan programs, principally the FFEL Program, and private education loans, primarily CitiAssist loans. The Company, which has a trust agreement to originate loans through CBNA, is an originator, manager and servicer of student loans made in accordance with federally sponsored guaranteed student loan programs. The Company owns and manages the following types of FFEL Program loans: subsidized Federal Stafford, unsubsidized Federal Stafford, Federal PLUS and Federal Consolidation Loans. In addition, the Company’s government-guaranteed portfolio includes Federal Supplemental Loans for Students (SLS Loans) and Health Education Assistance Loans (HEAL Loans). When the statutory interest rates on most FFEL Program loans provide less than prescribed rates of return, the Company receives compensation from the federal government as defined by the Higher Education Act. The federal government pays a special allowance payment (SAP), which increases the Company’s loan yield over a base rate tied to either the 90-day Commercial Paper rate as published by the Department (CP) or the 91-day Treasury Bill auction yield, depending on the loan origination date. In addition, the federal government generally pays the stated interest rate on subsidized Federal Stafford Loans while the borrower is in school, grace or deferment. The Company’s FFEL Program loan portfolio expands through disbursements of new FFEL Program loans as well as secondary market and other loan procurement activity. Purchases may include FFEL Program loans purchased through third-party purchase agreements. These agreements obligate the Company to purchase eligible loans offered for sale and/or originated by the other party. The contractual premium on the loans purchased under these contracts varies from agreement to agreement. The Company’s private education loans portfolio contains loans originated through alternative programs. These loans are generally for students who either seek additional financial assistance beyond that available through the government programs and other sources or do not qualify for federal government sponsored student loan programs. Private education loans are generally offered based on the borrower’s or co-signer’s creditworthiness. Private education loans are prime or London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) rate-based with provisions similar to the FFEL Program, such as deferment of both principal and interest payments while the student is in school. In order to comply with certain legal and regulatory requirements, private education loans are originated by CBNA, the Company’s principal shareholder. In accordance with the provisions of an intercompany agreement, origination and servicing fees are charged to CBNA for the underwriting, disbursing and servicing of private education loans. After full disbursement, the Company purchases all private education loans from CBNA. 86 The Company’s loans are summarized by program type as follows: December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2009 2008 Federal Stafford Loans $ 10,414,533 $ 10,188,076 Federal Consolidation Loans 5,864,695 6,312,535 Federal SLS/PLUS/HEAL Loans 1,669,478 1,564,051 Private education loans 7,432,471 5,861,545 Total student loans held, excluding deferred costs 25,381,177 23,926,207 Deferred origination and premium costs 548,083 635,449 Student Loans held 25,929,260 24,561,656 Less: allowance for loan losses (149,098 ) (110,329 ) Student Loans held, net 25,780,162 24,451,327 Loans held for sale, excluding deferred costs 2,381,026 1,058,953 Deferred origination and premium costs 28,241 13,363 Loans held for sale 2,409,267 1,072,316 Other loans and lines of credit 5,616 9,016 Total loan assets $ 28,195,045 $ 25,532,659 Certain of the Company’s student loans have been pledged as collateral against its secured borrowings, including $15.7 billion of FFEL Program loans and $2.0 billion of private education loans. In addition, the Company’s loans held for sale have been pledged as collateral against secured borrowings with the Department. See Note 6 for additional information. The Company’s FFEL Program loan holdings are guaranteed by the federal government in the event of a borrower’s default, death, disability, bankruptcy, school closure, false certification or unpaid school refund, subject to risk-sharing provisions established by the federal government. Insurance on FFEL Program loans is provided by certain state or not-for-profit guarantors, which are reinsured by the federal government. The Higher Education Act requires every state to either establish its own guarantor or contract with another guarantor in order to support the education financing and credit needs of students at post-secondary schools. FFEL Program guarantors in each state generally guarantee loans for students attending schools in their particular state or region or guarantee loans for their residents attending schools in another state. FFEL Program loans are subject to regulatory requirements relating to servicing in order to maintain the loan’s guarantee. In the event of default on a student loan or a borrower’s death, disability or bankruptcy, the Company files a claim with the guarantor of the loan. 87 As of December 31, 2009, the Company receives reimbursement on substantially all FFEL Program loan claims at a rate of 97% or 98%, depending on the origination date of the loan. FFEL Program loan claims are subject to rejection by the guarantor in the event of loan servicing or origination defects. If servicing or origination defects are identified, the claimed loan is rejected and returned to the Company for remedial loan servicing. During the remedial servicing period, usually lasting several months, interest income is not accrued. The loans in remediation were not material at both December 31, 2009 and 2008. If the guarantee on the rejected claim cannot be reinstated, the defaulted loan is written off against the allowance for loan losses, generally, within four months of the claim rejection. Guarantor claim payments on loans with minor servicing defects are subject to interest penalty deductions that are charged directly against current period interest income. The following tables provide details of loans, excluding allowance for loan losses and deferred origination and premium costs, by type of guaranty or risk-sharing agreement: December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2009 % 2008 % Federal Loan Guarantors New York State Higher Education Services Corporation $ 5,666,453 20 $ 5,545,464 22 EdFund 4,166,747 15 4,020,974 16 United Student Aid Funds 2,160,860 8 2,039,040 8 American Student Assistance 1,904,759 7 1,887,695 8 Texas Guaranteed Student Loan Corporation 1,673,498 6 1,198,959 5 Great Lakes Higher Education 1,208,439 4 911,416 4 Education Credit Management Corporation 909,362 3 692,280 3 Other federal loan guarantors 2,636,559 10 2,822,925 11 Total federally guaranteed 20,326,677 73 19,118,753 77 Private education loan insurers 4,408,479 16 4,541,439 18 Total guaranteed/insured 24,735,156 89 23,660,192 95 Other unguaranteed/uninsured (1) 3,027,047 11 1,333,984 5 Total loans $ 27,762,203 100 $ 24,994,176 100 (1) Primarily includes uninsured CitiAssist loans The Company’s private education loan portfolio is not guaranteed by the federal government. Although private education loans do not carry a federal government guarantee, 58% of the outstanding balances of these loans carry private insurance through United Guaranty Commercial Insurance Company of North Carolina and New Hampshire Insurance Company (UGCIC/NHIC), and 2% of the outstanding balances are insured through Arrowood Indemnity Company (Arrowood). UGCIC/NHIC are subsidiaries of American International Group (AIG). Arrowood is a wholly owned subsidiary of Arrowpoint Capital Corporation (Arrowpoint). 88 These insurance providers insure the Company against a portion of losses arising from borrower loan default, bankruptcy or death. Under the Arrowood program, private education loans submitted for default claim are generally subject to a risk-sharing deductible of 5% of the outstanding principal and accrued interest balances. Under the UGCIC/NHIC program, default claims are generally subject to risk-sharing deductibles between 10% and 20% of the outstanding principal and accrued interest balances. From 2003 through 2007, UGCIC/NHIC insured the Company for maximum portfolio losses ranging from 12.5% to 13.5% over the life of the loans. The Company is exposed to 100% of losses that exceed these thresholds. While these losses are not currently forecast to exceed these thresholds, if deterioration in market conditions continues, or if unanticipated regulatory changes are required that adversely affect private education loan performance, losses could be higher than expected. For loans insured during 2005 and 2006, the insurance premium is calculated under an experience-rated plan, which may require additional premium payments of up to $58.2 million in order to maintain insurance coverage for these loans if the loss limits exceed the established parameters. If parameters are exceeded in 2010, payments would be required beginning in 2011. The Company ceased insuring new CitiAssist Standard loans in January 2008. A portion of the uninsured loans are covered by risk-sharing agreements with schools and universities. Under these programs, the school or university assumes a portion of the Company’s credit exposure for the covered loans. The risk-sharing agreements generally take one of two forms: i) the school reimburses the Company for a specified percentage of losses of 50% to 100% when the losses exceed an agreed upon threshold ranging from 0% to 100% or ii) the school pays 8% to 50% of the total disbursed amount to compensate for future expected losses. The allowance for loan losses provides a reserve for estimated risk-sharing and other credit losses on FFEL Program and CitiAssist loans. Changes in the Company’s allowance for loan losses are as follows: (Dollars in thousands) 2009 2008 2007 Balance at beginning of year $ 110,329 $ 42,115 $ 14,197 Provision for loan losses 140,852 140,895 59,920 Charge offs (116,199 ) (80,618 ) (36,045 ) Recoveries 14,116 10,578 5,697 Other (1) - (2,641 ) (1,654 ) Balance at end of year $ 149,098 $ 110,329 $ 42,115 (1) Represents reserve amounts associated with loans securitized. At December 31, 2009 the Company had $0.7 million of FFEL Program loans and $40.8 million of private education loans that ceased accruing interest as compared to $1.2 million of FFEL Program loans and $31.7 million of private education loans at December 31, 2008. The Company also had $770.7 million of FFEL Program loans and $20.9 million of private education loans that were 90 days delinquent or greater and were still accruing interest at December 31, 2009 as compared to $631.6 million of FFEL Program loans and $10.0 million of private education loans at December 31, 2008. 89 5. OTHER ASSETS Other assets are summarized as follows: December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2009 2008 Accrued interest receivable: from student loan borrowers $ 889,461 $ 798,113 from federal government 1,607 12,889 Restricted cash and cash equivalents 690,536 47,615 Servicing asset from securitization activity 176,587 208,133 Income taxes receivable 114,077 101,721 Deferred financing fees 39,667 4,136 Equipment and computer software (1) 24,745 27,457 Retained notes from securitization activities 19,750 66,487 Collateral on derivatives with CBNA - 387,498 Derivative agreements with CBNA - 91,559 Other 28,477 15,730 Total other assets $ 1,984,907 $ 1,761,338 (1) Amounts are reflected net of accumulated depreciation and software amortization of $67.0 million and $59.1 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Depreciation and software amortization expense totaled $10.3 million, $12.3 million and $14.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Included in equipment and computer software are capitalized internally developed software costs of $23.9 million and $25.4 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. During the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company capitalized $7.6 million and $7.7 million in costs related to software development, respectively. The Company did not have any significant disposals of equipment and computer software during the year ended December 31, 2009. The Company disposed of equipment and computer software with a net book value of $3.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2008, of which $2.9 million is included in Other expenses and $0.6 million is included in Restructuring and related charges. At December 31 2009, restricted cash and cash equivalents increased by $642.9 million and deferred financing fees increased by $35.5 million from December 31, 2008. These increases reflect the additional cash reserves required and deferred financing fees on secured borrowings from the Conduit and the four securitization transactions completed during 2009. 90 Historically, the majority of the Company’s derivative financial instruments were interest rate swaps and floor options with CBNA, which were intended to economically hedge the interest rate risk inherent in its retained interests in its off-balance sheet securitizations. The terms of the derivative agreements with CBNA required that the Company maintain collateral on these derivative instruments. The Company closed out of these interest rate swap and floor option derivative positions during the fourth quarter of 2009 in anticipation of accounting changes effective January 1, 2010, which will result in the consolidation of the Company’s previously unconsolidated securitizations and elimination of the related retained interests being hedged. As a result of closing out of these derivatives, the Company no longer maintains collateral that was previously required on these derivatives with CBNA. For further information on the Company’s derivative agreements, see Note 13. During 2009, the Company sold retained subordinated notes from its June 2008 securitization. The 70% decrease in the retained notes at December 31, 2009 compared to December 31, 2008 primarily reflects the sale. 6. SHORT- AND LONG-TERM BORROWINGS The following table summarizes the Company’s total borrowings: December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 (Dollars in thousands) Ending Balance Contracted Weighted Average Interest Rate Ending Balance Contracted Weighted Average Interest Rate Unsecured borrowings: Short-term borrowings, payable to principal stockholder $ 5,131,000 2.08 % $ 12,654,200 2.55 % Long-term borrowings, payable to principal stockholder 4,391,000 2.79 % 10,102,000 4.30 % Total unsecured borrowings $ 9,522,000 $ 22,756,200 Secured borrowings: Short-term secured borrowings $ 2,066,686 0.79 % $ 1,002,211 3.37 % Long-term secured borrowings from on-balance sheet securitizations 6,812,894 2.26 % 1,727,744 3.22 % Long-term secured borrowings from the Conduit 10,187,082 0.63 % – – Total secured borrowings $ 19,066,662 $ 2,729,955 Total Borrowings: $ 28,588,662 $ 25,486,155 During December 2009, the Company entered into an amendment (the Extension) of its Omnibus Credit Agreement with CBNA, which was originally set to expire on December 31, 2009. The Extension changed the expiration date of the Omnibus Credit Agreement from December 31, 2009 to January 31, 2010. In addition, the Extension lowered the maximum aggregate credit available under the Omnibus Credit Agreement from $30.0 billion to $10.5 billion, effective January 1, 2010. 91 On January 29, 2010, the Company entered into an Amended and Restated Omnibus Credit Agreement with CBNA. The Amended and Restated Omnibus Credit Agreement supersedes and replaces in its entirety the Original Omnibus Credit Agreement and is effective as of January 1, 2010. The Company’s unsecured borrowings at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 represent borrowings outstanding under the terms of Original Omnibus Credit Agreement. The Amended and Restated Omnibus Credit Agreement provides $6.6 billion in aggregate credit for new borrowings, including separate tranches (with their own sublimits and pricing) for overnight funding, FFEL Program loan funding, private education loan funding and illiquid asset funding. The initial term of the Amended and Restated Omnibus Credit Agreement expires on December 30, 2010 and all new borrowings will be due and payable on or before this date. The cost of borrowing for overnight funding is based on the higher of the overnight federal funds target or overnight LIBOR, while the total cost of funding for other tranches is determined as follows: Interest Rate, based on one-month LIBOR plus Fee on Undrawn Balance FFEL Program Loans................. 75 basis points 30 basis points Private Education Loans........... 450 basis points 200 basis points Illiquid Assets............................ 400 basis points on the first $600 million of funding and 655 basis points for supplemental funding (up to $1.1 billion in aggregate) 100 basis points The Amended and Restated Omnibus Credit Agreement also requires (1) a pledge of most of the Company’s financial assets to secure the Company’s obligations; (2) a $57 million upfront commitment fee; and (3) a comprehensive package of representations, warranties, conditions, covenants (including a borrowing base and various other financial covenants) and events of default. CBNA’s consent is required for the release of pledged collateral for whole loan sales, securitizations, and participation in government funding programs, with the exception of the Conduit, the Participation Program and the Purchase Program, and certain specified potential securitizations in the first quarter of 2010. The $9.5 billion of borrowings outstanding under the Original Omnibus Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2009 will continue to mature based on their originally contracted maturities, unless a change of control or an event of default, as defined by the Amended and Restated Omnibus Credit Agreement, occurs. A change of control is defined as any event that results in an entity other than CBNA or its affiliates owning more than 50% of the voting equity interest in the Company. If a change of control or an event of default (certain of which require explicit action by CBNA to effect an acceleration) under the Amended and Restated Omnibus Credit Agreement were to occur, all outstanding borrowings under the Original Omnibus Credit Agreement and all new borrowings under the Amended and Restated Omnibus Credit Agreement would become due and payable immediately. The borrowings outstanding under the Original Omnibus Credit Agreement are also subject to the representations, warranties, conditions, covenants (including a borrowing base and various other financial covenants) and events of default contained in the Amended and Restated Omnibus Agreement. 92 At December 31, 2009, $3.0 billion of the Company’s outstanding unsecured borrowings under the original Omnibus Credit Agreement and the Company’s secured borrowings from the TALF securitization included derivatives embedded in the respective debt instruments. These embedded options have been determined to be clearly and closely related to the debt instruments as these terms are defined in ASC 815 and, therefore, do not require bifurcation. Secured borrowings increased by $16.3 billion from December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2009 from the completion of four on-balance sheet securitizations, funding obtained from the Conduit and a net increase in short-term secured borrowings from the Department under the Participation Program of $1.1 billion. Proceeds from these long-term secured borrowings were primarily used to pay down short- and long-term unsecured borrowings. Of the secured borrowings at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, $0.2 billion is denominated in Euros and an additional $0.1 billion of notes remains available for issuance. At December 31, 2009, the total authorized long-term secured borrowings of $17.0 billion were collateralized by $15.7 billion of FFEL Program loans and $2.0 billion of private education loans. Principal payments on the secured borrowings are made as principal amounts are collected on the collateralized loans. See Note 15 for additional information regarding collateralized assets and associated liabilities related to the Company’s long-term secured borrowing. The Conduit provides additional liquidity support to eligible student lenders by providing funding for FFEL Program Stafford and PLUS loans first disbursed on or after October 1, 2003 and before July 1, 2009, and fully disbursed by September 30, 2009. In addition to providing financing at a cost based on market rates, a significant benefit to lenders is that eligible loans are permitted to have borrower benefits, which are currently not permitted under the Participation and Purchase Programs. Funding from the Conduit is provided indirectly by the capital markets through the sale to private investors of government back-stopped asset-backed commercial paper. The Company receives funding equal to 97% of the principal and interest to be capitalized of the pledged student loans. The commercial paper issued by the Conduit has short-term maturities generally ranging up to 90 days. In the event the commercial paper issued by the Conduit cannot be reissued at maturity and the Conduit does not have sufficient cash to repay investors, the Federal Financing Bank (FFB) has committed to provide short-term liquidity to the Conduit. If the Conduit is not able to issue sufficient commercial paper to repay its investors or liquidity advances from the FFB, the Company can either secure alternative financing and repay its Conduit borrowings or sell the pledged student loans to the Department at a predetermined price equal to either 97% or 100% of the accrued interest and outstanding principal of pledged loans, based on first disbursement date and certain other loan criteria. If the Company were to sell the pledged loans to the Department, this would likely result in a significant loss to the Company. Short-Term Borrowings Short-term borrowings have a remaining term to maturity of one year or less. The Company expects that each of the unsecured short-term borrowings will be refinanced with new borrowings. At December 31, 2009, all of the short-term borrowings had variable interest rates. The Company’s short-term secured borrowings increased by $1.1 billion at December 31, 2009 compared to December 31, 2008. This reflects new loans originated under the Participation Program during 2009 net of the sale of FFEL Program loans to the Department under the Purchase Program. At December 31, 2009 the total short-term secured borrowings of $2.1 billion were collateralized by $2.3 billion of FFEL Program Stafford and PLUS loans included in the Company’s held for sale portfolio. 93 Long-Term Borrowings December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2009 2008 Secured borrowings related to the Conduit, based on LIBOR (note rate of 0.63% at December 31, 2009), due no later than January 2014 $ 10,187,082 $ – Secured borrowings entered into during February 2009, based on LIBOR (note rates ranged from 2.02% to 2.77% at December 31, 2009), due May 2016 – May 2024 515,063 – Secured borrowing entered into during July 2009, based on LIBOR (note rate of 1.92% at December 31, 2009), due August 2043 1,882,905 – Secured borrowing entered into during August 2009, based on prime (note rate of 4.75% at December 31, 2009), due June 2033 1,394,606 – Secured borrowing entered into during December 2009, based on LIBOR (note rate of 1.00% at December 31, 2009), due December 2043 1,432,000 – Secured borrowing entered into during 2008, based on LIBOR (note rates ranged from 0.85% to 1.88% at December 31, 2009), due March 2013 – March 2038 1,588,320 1,727,744 CBNA Notes, based on LIBOR (note rates ranged from 2.01% to 2.80% at December 31, 2009), due August 2010 - April 2012 4,652,000 5,389,000 CBNA Notes, based on LIBOR or strike rate, whichever is higher (note rate of 2.90% at December 31, 2009), due July 2010 2,000,000 2,000,000 CBNA Notes, based on LIBOR or strike rate, whichever is higher (note rate of 2.82% at December 31, 2009), due July 2015 1,000,000 1,000,000 CBNA Notes, based on prime rate, (note rate of 2.86% at December 31, 2009), due April 2013 850,000 850,000 CBNA Notes, fixed rate (note rate of 5.39% at December 31, 2009), due September 2016 100,000 100,000 CBNA Notes, based on LIBOR (note rate 0.96% at December 31, 2008), matured December 2009 – 2,000,000 CBNA Notes, based on LIBOR or strike rate, whichever is higher (note rate of 4.73% at December 31, 2008), matured January 2009 – 1,300,000 CBNA Notes, based on prime rate, (note rate of 2.20% at December 31, 2008), repaid December 2009 – 1,500,000 Less: portion of long-term borrowings due within one year (4,211,000 ) (4,037,000 ) Total long-term borrowings $ 21,390,976 $ 11,829,744 94 Interest due on secured borrowings from the Company’s on-balance sheet securitizations is variable based on either three-month LIBOR or prime plus a fixed premium. Interest due on secured borrowings from the Conduit is variable based on the rate at which the Conduit is able to issue CP, plus fixed costs associated with the Conduit. All of the Company’s unsecured borrowings that are based upon LIBOR or prime rates are variable borrowings in which the interest rate resets every one to three months depending on the specific terms of each borrowing. At December 31, 2009, aggregate annual maturities on long-term debt obligations (based on final maturity dates) were as follows: $1.6 billion in 2011, $0.9 billion in 2012, $0.9 billion in 2013, $10.2 billion in 2014, $1.0 billion in 2015, and $6.8 billion thereafter. 7. OTHER LIABILITIES Other liabilities are summarized as follows: December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2009 2008 Net interest owed to the government $ 173,475 $ 24,796 Interest payable 63,898 151,382 Liability from derivative agreements on foreign currency translation 17,381 24,935 Restructuring reserve 28 5,048 Liability from derivative agreements with CBNA (Note 13) – 463,628 Accounts payable and other liabilities 93,830 105,097 Total other liabilities $ 348,612 $ 774,886 During the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company closed out of its derivative agreements with CBNA which hedged the Company’s retained interests. This was done in anticipation of accounting changes effective January 1, 2010 which will eliminate the Company’s retained interests. 8. FEE AND OTHER INCOME A summary of fee and other income follows: Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2009 2008 2007 Net gains from securitization retained interests and related derivatives (Note 15) $ 143,305 $ 126,058 $ 21,353 Other origination and servicing fees from CBNA (Note 10) 6,108 7,406 7,271 Late fees 5,200 2,016 6,063 Fair value write down on loans held for sale (2,185 ) (34,672 ) – Mark-to-market gains (losses) on foreign currency swap net of translation (losses) gains 1,643 (1,790 ) – Other income 1,420 2,179 1,614 Total fee and other income $ 155,491 $ 101,197 $ 36,301 95 9. OTHER EXPENSES A summary of other expenses follows: Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2009 2008 2007 Servicing, professional, and other fees $ 70,585 $ 73,265 $ 63,507 Data processing and communications 13,375 12,261 13,072 Depreciation and amortization 10,338 12,285 15,205 Stationery, supplies and postage 4,477 6,429 6,040 Premises 2,177 2,650 3,005 Advertising and marketing 1,366 3,907 8,635 Travel and entertainment 300 1,004 2,042 Disposal of equipment and computer software 8 2,849 – Other 3,472 3,114 6,013 Total other expenses $ 106,098 $ 117,764 $ 117,519 10. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS CBNA, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Citigroup, owns 80% of the outstanding common stock of the Company. Pursuant to various intercompany agreements, a number of significant transactions are carried out between the Company and Citigroup, CBNA and/or their affiliates. Related party agreements with CBNA include an Omnibus Credit Agreement, a tax-sharing agreement and student loan originations and servicing agreements. In addition, the Company maintains a trust agreement with CBNA through which it originates FFEL Program loans. Also, the Company has an agreement for education loan servicing with Citibank (South Dakota), National Association. Management believes that the terms under which these transactions and services are provided are no less favorable to the Company than those that could be obtained from unaffiliated third parties. The Company is part of a group of businesses within Citigroup, referred to as Citi Holdings. Citigroup intends to exit these businesses as quickly as practicable, yet possible in an economically rational manner through business divestitures, portfolio run-off and asset sales. The Company’s management is currently working with Citi Holdings to provide information necessary to support Citi Holdings’ efforts to explore possible disposition and combination alternatives with regard to its ownership in the Company. 96 Detailed below is a summary of the Company’s transactions with either CBNA or other Citigroup affiliates which are included in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income: Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2009 2008 2007 Revenue Interest income $ 431 $ 2,550 $ 1,525 Interest expense (337,062 ) (825,886 ) (1,175,159 ) Fee and other income (loss) : Derivative valuation gain (loss) 72,796 (270,370 ) (32,961 ) Other origination and servicing fees 6,108 7,576 7,271 Operating Expenses Salaries and employee benefits: Employee benefits and administration $ 6,618 $ 9,123 $ 11,041 Stock-based compensation 899 2,766 2,345 Other expenses: Servicing, professional and other fees 64,112 62,327 50,890 Data processing and communications 8,327 7,022 6,699 Premises 2,156 2,619 2,973 Other 2,977 6,143 2,651 CBNA Omnibus Credit Agreement During December 2009, the Company entered into an amendment (the Extension) of its Omnibus Credit Agreement with CBNA, which was originally set to expire on December 31, 2009. The Extension changed the expiration date of the Omnibus Credit Agreement from December 31, 2009 to January 31, 2010. In addition, the Extension lowered the maximum aggregate credit available under the Omnibus Credit Agreement from $30.0 billion to $10.5 billion, effective January 1, 2010. On January 29, 2010, the Company entered into an Amended and Restated Omnibus Credit Agreement with CBNA. The Amended and Restated Omnibus Credit Agreement supersedes and replaces in its entirety the Original Omnibus Credit Agreement and is effective as of January 1, 2010. For further information on the Amended and Restated Omnibus Credit Agreement, see Note 6. All of the Company’s outstanding short- and long-term unsecured borrowings were incurred under the terms of the Original Omnibus Credit Agreement. At December 31, 2009 the Company had outstanding short- and long-term unsecured borrowings with CBNA of $5.1 billion and $4.4 billion, respectively, and $12.7 billion and $10.1 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2008. This agreement does not restrict the Company’s right to borrow from other sources. Interest expense incurred under these borrowings, as reflected in the table above, has decreased by 59% for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to 2008. For further information on the Company’s borrowings under the Omnibus Credit Agreement, see Note 6. 97 Interest Rate Swap and Option Agreements Historically, the Company maintained interest rate derivative and option agreements with CBNA, an investment-grade counterparty. The interest rate derivative agreements were used in an effort to manage the interest rate risk inherent in the retained interests in the Company’s off-balance sheet securitizations. The option agreements were designated as economic hedges to the floor income component of the residual interests. The Company closed out of these derivative positions during the fourth quarter of 2009 in anticipation of accounting changes effective January 1, 2010, which result in the consolidation of the Company’s previously unconsolidated securitizations and elimination of the related retained interests being hedged. As a result of closing out of these derivative agreements, the Company no longer maintains collateral, previously required on the derivatives with CBNA. For further information pertaining to the collateral on the Company’s derivatives, see Notes 5 and 13. Student Loan Origination Agreement and Servicing Fees Earned CitiAssist loans are originated and serviced under an intercompany agreement with CBNA. After final disbursement by CBNA, the Company purchases all qualified private education loans at CBNA’s carrying value at the time of purchase, plus a contractual premium. Total principal balances of CitiAssist loans purchased by the Company were $1.8 billion and $1.5 billion for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Total premiums paid by the Company related to CitiAssist loan purchases were $12.1 million and $9.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. At December 31, 2009, the Company was committed to purchase CitiAssist loans of $0.6 billion under this agreement. The Company also earns loan origination and servicing revenue for work performed on CitiAssist loans held by CBNA prior to purchase by the Company. Servicing, Professional and Other Fees Paid The majority of the loan originations and servicing work on the Company’s FFEL Program and CitiAssist loan portfolios was performed under the provisions of intercompany agreements with affiliates of the Company, including Citibank (South Dakota), National Association. The increases in the charges are primarily due to managed loan portfolio growth. 98 Stock-based Compensation The Company participates in various Citigroup stock-based compensation programs under which Citigroup stock or stock options are granted to certain of the Company’s employees. The Company has no stock-based compensation programs in which its own stock is granted. The Company pays Citigroup directly for participation in certain of its stock-based compensation programs, but receives a capital contribution for those awards related to participation in the employee incentive stock option program. CBNA Tax-sharing Agreement The Company is included in the consolidated federal income tax return of Citigroup, as well as certain combined or unitary state/local income or franchise tax returns of Citigroup or its subsidiaries. As such, the Company pays its income taxes through CBNA. The taxes recorded by the Company are based on an effective tax rate that approximates the tax expense that would be recognized if the Company were to file such income tax returns on a stand-alone basis. Other Intercompany Arrangements Citigroup and its subsidiaries engage in other transactions and servicing activities with the Company, including cash management, data processing, telecommunications, payroll processing and administration, facilities procurement, underwriting, and others. Other information about intercompany transactions is available as follows: for CitiAssist loans, see Note 4; for short- and long-term funding and interest rate swap transactions, see Notes 6 and 13; for employee benefit related transactions, see Note 11; and for income tax matters, see Notes 1, 5 and 12. 11. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS The Company’s employees are covered under various Citigroup benefit plans, including: medical and life insurance that covers active, retired and disabled employees; defined benefit pension; dental; defined contribution; salary continuance for disabled employees and workers compensation. The Company pays Citigroup a fee for employee benefit costs. The benefit cost rate on salaries was 27% in 2009, 25% in 2008 and 27% in 2007. Substantially all of the Company’s employees participate in Citigroup’s benefit plans. Any pension obligation pertaining to these plans is a liability of Citigroup. The fringe rate included approximately $0.9 million for 2007, representing the Company’s defined benefit plan expense allocation. The plan was eliminated during 2008 and there was no expense. In 2009 and 2008 the fringe rate included approximately $1.7 million and $2.4 million of contributions made to the employee defined contribution plan, respectively. These amounts are included with other employee benefit costs in Employee benefits and administration in the related party transactions table in Note 10. 99 12. INCOME TAXES The provision for income taxes consists of the following: Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2009 2008 2007 Current Federal $ 41,113 $ 63,961 $ 82,576 State 5,248 7,153 15,440 Total current $ 46,361 $ 71,114 $ 98,016 Deferred Federal $ 25,580 $ (24,443 ) $ 11,150 State 2,811 (3,429 ) 2,086 Total deferred 28,391 (27,872 ) 13,236 Total income tax provision $ 74,752 $ 43,242 $ 111,252 The Company's effective tax rate was 37.3%, 37.1% and 37.5% for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. For further information regarding the Company’s correction of immaterial errors related to taxes, see Note 3. The following table presents the actual income tax provisions computed at the federal statutory income tax rate of 35%: Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2009 2008 2007 Income taxes computed at federal statutory rate $ 70,149 $ 40,834 $ 103,951 State tax provision, net of federal benefits 5,238 2,421 11,392 Other, net (635 ) (13) (4,091 ) Total income tax provision $ 74,752 $ 43,242 $ 111,252 100 Deferred income taxes consist of the following: December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2009 2008 Deferred Tax Assets Unrealized losses on derivative instruments $ 55 $ 108,376 Allowance for loan losses 56,797 42,511 Other 6,080 3,007 Total deferred tax assets $ 62,932 $ 153,894 Deferred Tax Liabilities Deferred loan origination costs $ (164,331 ) $ (187,696 ) Internally developed software costs (8,975 ) (9,460 ) Gain on securitizations and other securitization related income/(loss) (298,554 ) (337,943 ) Other (1,618 ) (950 ) Total deferred tax liabilities $ (473,478 ) $ (536,049 ) Net deferred tax liabilities $ (410,546 ) $ (382,155 ) The following is a rollforward of the Company’s unrecognized tax benefits. (Dollars in thousands) 2009 2008 Total unrecognized tax benefits at beginning of period $ 7,696 $ 8,301 Net amount of increases for current year’s tax positions 317 189 Gross amount of increases for prior years’ tax positions 321 - Gross amount of decreases for prior years’ tax positions - (794) Total unrecognized tax benefits at end of period $ 8,334 $ 7,696 The total amount of unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2009 that, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate is $3.7 million. Interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits, which are not included in the rollforward above, are a component of the provision for income taxes. Interest and Penalties (Dollars in thousands) Pretax Net of Tax Interest and penalties in the balance sheet at January 1, 2009 $ 1,514 $ 984 Interest and penalties in the 2009 statement of income (129 ) (84 ) Interest and penalties in the balance sheet at December 31, 2009 $ 1,385 $ 900 101 The Company is included in the consolidated U.S. Federal income tax return of Citigroup and certain multi-combined and unitary state and local tax returns of Citigroup or its subsidiaries. Citigroup is presently under audit by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for 2003-2005. It is reasonably possible that the audit will conclude within the next 12 months. The resolution of the uncertain tax position related to the IRS audit would not affect the Company’s effective tax rate. The following are the major tax jurisdictions in which the Company operates and the earliest tax year subject to examination: Jurisdiction Tax year United States 1999 California 2000 New York 2005 13. DERIVATIVE AGREEMENTS The Company currently has one cross-currency swap that is intended to manage its exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on its Euro denominated secured borrowing. The swap matures at the earlier of the date at which the respective notes mature, the trust loan assets have been liquidated or 2032. Historically, the Company maintained interest rate derivative and option agreements with CBNA, an investment-grade counterparty. The interest rate derivative agreements were used in an effort to manage the interest rate risk inherent in the retained interests in the Company’s off-balance sheet securitizations. The option agreements were designated as economic hedges to the floor income component of the residual interests. The Company closed out of these derivative positions during the fourth quarter of 2009 in anticipation of accounting changes effective January 1, 2010, which result in the consolidation of the Company’s previously unconsolidated securitizations and elimination of the related retained interests being hedged. The Company no longer maintains collateral, previously required on the derivatives with CBNA. For further information pertaining to the collateral on the Company’s derivatives, see Notes 5 and 10. The Company’s derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting under ASC 815. The fair values of the Company’s derivatives are included in Other Assets and Other Liabilities, respectively, and are provided in the table below: December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2009 2008 Fair Value Fair Value Notional Asset Liability Notional Asset Liability Other LIBOR Based Swaps – – – 13,342,300 37,361 65,348 Interest Rate Floor Options – – – 12,111,261 54,198 398,280 Foreign Currency Swap 232,050 – 17,381 232,050 – 24,935 102 Gains and losses on the Company’s derivatives are recorded in Fee and Other Income and are provided in the table below: Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2009 2008 2007 Gains (losses) on LIBOR-Based Swaps $ 58,022 $ (29,063) $ 8,133 Gains (losses) on Interest Rate Floor Options 14,774 (241,307) (41,094) Gains (losses) on Foreign Currency Swap 7,553 (24,935) – Net gains (losses) on derivatives $ 80,349 $(295,305) $ (32,961) 14. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (ASC 825-10) The estimated fair value of the Company’s financial instruments is presented in the following table: December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 (Dollars in thousands) Carrying Value Estimated Fair Value Carrying Value Estimated Fair Value Financial Assets: Total loan assets $ 28,195,045 $ 25,383,302 $ 25,532,659 $ 21,398,064 Cash and restricted cash and cash equivalents 708,534 708,534 48,210 48,210 Accrued interest receivable 891,069 776,524 811,002 698,896 Residual interests in loans securitized 820,291 820,291 942,807 942,807 Collateral on Derivatives with CBNA – – 387,498 387,498 Derivative assets – – 91,559 91,559 Servicing assets 176,587 176,587 208,133 208,133 Retained notes from securitization sales 19,750 19,750 66,487 66,487 Financial Liabilities: Short-term borrowings $ 7,197,686 $ 7,219,301 $ 13,656,411 $ 13,594,320 Long-term borrowings 21,390,976 21,412,849 11,829,744 11,384,196 Derivative liabilities 17,381 17,381 488,563 488,563 Interest payable 63,898 63,898 151,382 151,382 In accordance with ASC 825-10, the estimated fair values have been determined by the Company using available market information and other valuation methodologies that are described below. The fair value approximates the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. These estimates are subjective in nature and involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgment. Accordingly, the estimates may not be indicative of the amounts that the Company could realize in a current market exchange. Changes in assumptions could materially affect the estimates. 103 The difference between fair value and carrying value may vary from period to period based on changes in a wide range of factors, including returns required by investors in financial instruments, LIBOR and CP interest rates, portfolio mix of variable and fixed rate loans, growth of the portfolio, timing of contractual repricing, portfolio age, default rates and maturity or contractual settlement dates. Total Loans Assets The fair value of loans was calculated by discounting cash flows through expected maturity using the estimated current relevant yield curve for the interest rates. The carrying value is presented net of the allowance for loan losses. Cash, Restricted Cash and Cash Equivalents and Accrued Interest Payable Due to the short-term nature of these instruments, carrying value approximates fair value. Accrued Interest Receivable Most of the Company’s accrued interest receivable relates to loans that are not currently in repayment. This accrued interest will be added to the borrowers’ principal balances when the loans enter repayment. Accordingly, the fair value of accrued interest receivable that is expected to be capitalized was calculated using the same methodology used for the related loan assets. Accrued interest receivable on loans in repayment is considered short-term and, accordingly, carrying value approximates fair value. Residual Interests in Loans Securitized, Servicing Assets and Retained Notes The fair value of the residual interest in the loans securitized, servicing assets and retained notes (collectively, retained interests) were determined using a discounted cash flow model. Retained interests from securitization are recorded at fair value in the Consolidated Financial Statements. For more information on student loan securitizations, see Note 15. Short-Term and Long-Term Borrowings The Company pays interest on its short- and long-term borrowings based on CP, LIBOR or prime rates. These borrowings generally have variable interest rates with reset periods ranging from one day to every three months, depending on the specific terms of each borrowing. Many of the Company’s borrowings are based on a base index plus a credit premium. These credit premiums are fixed over the life of the related borrowing. The fair value of the Company’s borrowings from the Omnibus Credit Agreement, the Conduit and from its on-balance sheet securitization trusts was calculated by discounting cash flows through maturity using estimated market discount rates. Derivatives and Collateral on Derivatives Derivatives are used in an effort to manage interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate risk. The fair value of derivative instruments was based upon quotes received from counterparties based on similar instruments in active markets. Derivatives are recorded at fair value in the Consolidated Financial Statements. The carrying value of the Company’s collateral on derivatives approximates fair value. 104 15. STUDENT LOAN SECURITIZATIONS The Company maintains programs to securitize certain portfolios of student loan assets. Under the Company’s securitization programs, transactions qualifying as sales under ASC 860-10-40-5 are off-balance sheet transactions in which the loans are removed from the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company and sold to an independent trust. In order to pay for the loan assets, the trust sells debt securities collateralized primarily by the student loan assets to outside investors. For off-balance sheet securitizations, the Company generally retains interests in the form of subordinated residual interests (i.e., interest-only strips) and servicing rights. The Company also enters into similar securitization transactions that do not qualify for sale treatment and, accordingly, are accounted for as secured borrowings. These transactions do not give rise to a gain or loss on sale. Student loan assets sold to these securitization trusts, along with other assets and liabilities of the trusts, remain on-balance sheet. The Company’s FFEL Program loans that are funded through the Conduit are funded indirectly through the sale of asset-backed commercial paper to private investors and are also accounted for as secured borrowings with the transferred assets remaining on-balance sheet. See Notes 1 and 6 for additional details regarding the Conduit. At December 31, 2009, the carrying amount of the funded assets through on-balance sheet securitizations and the Conduit was $19.2 billion of which $15.7 billion is included in Federally insured student loans, $2.0 billion is included in Private education loans, and the remainder is composed primarily of deferred origination and premium costs, accrued interest and restricted cash and cash equivalents. The related liabilities of $17.1 billion at December 31, 2009, included $17.0 billion of Long-term secured borrowings while the remainder is included in Other liabilities. The assets are restricted from being sold or pledged as collateral for other borrowings. The cash flows from these restricted assets may be used only to pay down obligations of the trust. Under terms of all the trust arrangements, the Company has the option, but not the obligation, to provide financial support, but has never provided such support. A substantial portion of the credit risk associated with the securitized loans has been transferred to third party guarantors or insurers either under the FFEL Program or private credit insurance. The following table summarizes the principal amounts and fair values of retained interests in the Company’s off-balance sheet loan securitizations: December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 (Dollars in thousands) FFEL Program Private education FFEL Program Private education Principal amounts $ 11,830,320 $ 2,066,492 $ 12,809,596 $ 2,286,745 Retained interests 868,529 148,099 1,042,766 174,661 105 The following table summarizes the Company’s securitization activity: Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2009 2008 2007 Securitization sales: Student loans securitized (1) $ – $ 2,035,540 $ 2,876,812 Net proceeds from student loans securitized during the period – 1,973,207 2,907,581 Realized gains on loans securitized – 1,262 70,814 Securitization financings: Student loans securitized (1) $ 6,008,203 $ 1,993,213 $ – Student loans funded through the Conduit (1) 10,477,198 – – Total student loans funded through securitization financings (1) $ 16,485,401 $ 1,993,213 $ – Net proceeds from student loans securitized (2) $ 5,271,234 $ 1,798,638 $ – Net proceeds from student loans funded through the Conduit during the current period (2) 10,389,529 – – Total net proceeds from securitization financings (2) $ 15,660,763 $ 1,798,638 $ – (1) Amounts represent the carrying value of the student loans securitized as of the securitization date. (2) Amounts represent proceeds of loans securitized or funded through the Conduit net of related financing costs. The difference between student loans securitized or loans funded through the Conduit and net proceeds received is largely a result of required overcollateralization, but also reflects issuance costs and notes not issued on the date of the securitization. The following table reflects amounts received related to off-balance sheet securitization trusts: Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2009 2008 2007 Cash received from trusts for servicing $ 77,769 $ 77,863 $ 64,868 Cash received from trusts on residual interests 211,257 138,681 65,388 Cash received from trusts on retained notes 1,986 2,400 – During the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company earned $77.2 million, $78.2 million and $67.3 million, respectively, of contractually specified servicing fees. The Company also earned $1.8 million, $2.5 million and $0.1 million on retained notes for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 106 Changes in the Company’s servicing assets are presented in the table below: Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2009 2008 2007 Balance at beginning of period $ 208,133 $ 199,112 $ 169,234 Changes in fair value due to changes in inputs and assumptions 330 43,826 16,329 Other changes (1) (31,876 ) (34,805 ) (31,997 ) Student loan securitizations (2) – – 45,546 Balance at end of period $ 176,587 $ 208,133 $ 199,112 (1) Amounts represent the effects of cash received and the passage of time. (2) There is no servicing asset or liability associated with the off-balance sheet FFEL Program Stafford and PLUS loan securitization because the servicing fee approximated adequate compensation. The following table reflects net gains from securitization retained interests and related derivatives from off-balance sheet securitization trusts, which are recorded in Fee and other income: Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2009 2008 2007 Gains related to residual interests $ 19,564 $ 326,039 $ 2,733 Servicing revenue net of valuation gains and losses on servicing assets 45,769 87,173 51,606 Mark-to-market gains (losses) on derivatives 72,796 (270,370 ) (32,961 ) Realized and unrealized gains (losses) on retained notes 5,176 (16,784 ) (25 ) Net gains from securitization retained interests and related derivatives $ 143,305 $ 126,058 $ 21,353 The Company utilizes discounted cash flow models to measure the fair value of its residual interests and servicing assets. These models require management to make certain assumptions which, while based on relevant internal and external data, inherently involve significant judgment and uncertainty. The discount rates, basis spreads, anticipated net credit loss rates, anticipated prepayment rates and projected borrower benefit utilization rates are key assumptions utilized to measure the fair value of these retained interests. The Company’s discount rate is the sum of the risk-free rate and a risk premium which reflects the prevailing economic and market conditions at the balance sheet date. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company decreased the risk premium on its FFEL Program loan trusts' residual interests by 75 basis points to reflect lower premiums recently experienced in the market on FFEL Program asset-backed securities transactions. The Company increased the risk premium of its private education loan residual interests during this same period by 200 basis points to reflect an increasing level of cash flow uncertainty and lack of liquidity in the private education loan asset-backed securities market. The risk-free component of the discount rate on all of the Company’s residual interests increased by 149 basis points for the year ended December 31, 2009. 107 The Company has also lowered its future prepayment assumptions to reflect an overall slowdown in borrower prepayment activity. The impact of the change in the prepayment assumptions was a $27.2 million and $3.6 million mark-to-market gain on the Company’s residual interests and servicing assets, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2009. The Company also recognized a mark-to-market loss on its residual interests as a result of the change in the fair value of the floor income embedded in the residual interest cash flows. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the mark-to-market loss on the floor income embedded in the Company’s residual interests was $75.7 million. During 2009, the Company did not enter into an off-balance sheet securitization as compared to one during 2008. The key assumptions used to value the residual interests and servicing assets of the trusts at the inception date of the securitization were as follows: 2008 Residual interest discount rates 10.64 % Constant prepayment rates 8.97 % Anticipated credit losses, net of insurance and guarantees 0.53 % Basis spread between LIBOR and CP rates 12 basis points Utilization rates of borrower benefits: Automated clearing house 2.27 % On time payments 5.82 % The key assumptions used to value the residual interests of securitized trusts were as follows: December 31, 2009 2008 Discount rates: FFEL Program Consolidation Loans 11.10 % 10.36 % FFEL Program Stafford and PLUS loan 11.10 % 10.36 % Private education loans 16.85 % 13.36 % Constant prepayment rates: FFEL Program Consolidation Loans 0.16% to 0.58 % 0.77% to 1.10 % FFEL Program Stafford and PLUS loan 4.44 % 6.54 % Private education loans 3.45 % 8.88 % Anticipated credit losses, net of insurance and guarantees: FFEL Program Consolidation Loans 0.27 % 0.32 % FFEL Program Stafford and PLUS loan 0.57 % 0.52 % Private education loans 0.90 % 0.67 % Basis spread between LIBOR and CP rates 16 basis points 13 basis points Utilization rates of borrower benefits: Automated clearing house 2.6% to 38.1 % 2.3% to 40.2 % On time payments 0% to 34.5 % 0% to 35.7 % 108 The key assumptions used to value the servicing assets of trusts related to securitization sales were as follows: December 31, 2009 2008 Discount rates: FFEL Program Consolidation Loans 5.39 % 3.90 % Private education loans 5.89 % 4.40 % Constant prepayment rates: FFEL Program Consolidation Loans 0.16% to 0.58 % 0.77% to 1.10 % Private education loans 3.45 % 8.88 % Weighted average servicing margin 20 basis points 23 basis points There is no servicing asset associated with the off-balance sheet FFEL Program Stafford and PLUS loan off-balance sheet securitization. A sensitivity analysis is provided in the table below that shows the effects of adverse changes in each of the key assumptions used to determine the fair value of the retained interests. The adverse effect of the change in each assumption is calculated independently while holding all other assumptions constant. Because the key assumptions may not be independent, the net effect of simultaneous adverse changes in the key assumptions may be different from the sum of the individual effects shown in the table. The effects of the key assumptions on the residual interests and servicing assets are presented below: (Dollars in thousands) Residual Interests Servicing Assets Fair value at December 31, 2009 $ 820,291 $ 176,587 Discount rate: 10% adverse change (25,300 ) (4,160 ) 20% adverse change (48,433 ) (8,147 ) Constant prepayment rate: 10% adverse change (3,117 ) (748 ) 20% adverse change (6,236 ) (1,512 ) Anticipated credit losses, net of insurance and guarantees: 10% adverse change (4,146 ) (765 ) 20% adverse change (8,354 ) (1,423 ) Expected basis spread between LIBOR and Commercial Paper rate: 10% adverse change (8,629 ) – 20% adverse change (17,257 ) – Borrower benefits – automated clearing house: 10% adverse change (2,840 ) – 20% adverse change (5,711 ) – Borrower benefits – on time payments: 10% adverse change (10,344 ) – 20% adverse change (20,711 ) – Servicing margin: 10% adverse change – (22,166 ) 20% adverse change – (44,115 ) 109 Principal amounts of off-balance sheet securitized loans and the related loan delinquencies (loans which are 90 days or more past due) are presented in the following table: December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2009 2008 Principal amounts $ 13,896,812 $ 15,096,341 Delinquencies 553,463 658,538 Credit losses, net of recoveries, for the Company’s off-balance sheet securitized loans are presented in the table below: Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2009 2008 2007 Credit losses, net of recoveries: $ 12,697 $ 9,374 $ 6,661 16. FAIR VALUE (ASC 860-50-35 and 50, ASC 820-10 AND ASC 825-10) The Company determines fair value using valuation techniques that are based upon observable and unobservable inputs. Observable inputs reflect market data obtained from independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflect the Company’s market assumptions. These two types of inputs create the following fair value hierarchy: · Level 1 – Quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets. · Level 2 – Quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active and model-derived valuations whose inputs are observable or whose primary value drivers are observable. · Level 3 – Instruments whose primary value drivers are unobservable. 110 Items Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis The following table presents the Company’s financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis for each of these hierarchy levels: December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 (Dollars in thousands) Level 2 Level 3 Level 2 Level 3 Assets Residual interests in securitized loans $ – $ 820,291 $ – $ 942,807 Other assets – 196,337 91,559 274,620 Total Assets $ – $ 1,016,628 $ 91,559 $ 1,217,427 Liabilities Other liabilities $ 17,381 $ – $ 488,563 $ – Derivatives Derivatives are used in an effort to manage interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate risk. Fair value was based upon quotes received from counterparties based on similar instruments in active markets. Derivatives are recorded at fair value and are included in Other assets and Other liabilities in the table above and in the Consolidated Financial Statements. For more information on derivatives, see Note 13. Retained Interests in Securitized Loans The Company has classified its residual interests, servicing assets and retained notes in its off balance-sheet securitizations, included in Other assets as Level 3 instruments and utilizes discounted cash flow models to measure the fair value. These models require management to make certain assumptions which, while based on relevant internal and external data, inherently involve significant judgment and uncertainty. The market for subordinated notes similar to those retained by the Company is not currently active. During the first quarter of 2009, the Company changed the discount rate assumptions used in the retained note discounted cash flow model from ones based solely on non-binding broker quotes to ones that also consider other market indicators and are consistent with those used to determine the fair values of the Company’s residual interests and servicing assets. All of the Company’s retained interests in off-balance sheet securitizations are recorded at fair value in the Consolidated Financial Statements. For more information on loan securitizations, see Note 15. The Company recorded $5.2 million of realized and unrealized gains as compared to a $16.8 million write-down associated with retained notes during the years ended December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. These gains and losses are included in Fee and Other Income in the Consolidated Financial Statements. For more information on loan securitizations, see Note 15. 111 The following table presents the changes in the Level 3 fair value category: Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2009 2008 2007 Residual interests in securitized loans: Balance at beginning of period $ 942,807 $ 633,074 $ 546,422 Total gains (realized/unrealized) included in earnings: Interest income 69,177 65,510 59,177 Fee and other income 19,564 326,039 2,733 Purchases, issuances and settlements (211,257 ) (81,816 ) 24,742 Balance at end of period $ 820,291 $ 942,807 $ 633,074 Unrealized gains relating to assets still held at the reporting date (1) $ 19,564 $ 326,039 $ 2,733 Servicing assets and retained notes included in Other assets: Balance at beginning of period $ 274,620 $ 199,112 $ 169,234 Total gains (realized/unrealized) included in earnings: Fee and other income 14,705 41,851 27,036 Transfers into Level 3 – 78,981 – Purchases, sales, issuances and settlements (92,988 ) (45,324 ) 2,842 Balance at end of period $ 196,337 $ 274,620 $ 199,112 Unrealized gains relating to assets still held at the reporting date (1) $ 3,038 $ 31,332 $ 16,329 (1) The difference between total gains (realized /unrealized) included in earnings and unrealized gains relating to assets still held at the reporting date represents accreted yield and realized gains from the sale of retained notes from the Company’s 2008 off-balance sheet securitization. 112 Items Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis Certain assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis and therefore are not included in the table above. These include assets such as loans held for sale that are measured at the lower of cost or fair value. The fair value of loans measured at the lower of cost or fair value is determined using discounted cash flow models or contractual sales price when applicable. Such loans are generally classified in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy as these discounted cash flow models utilize unobservable inputs, including discount rate, expected prepayment rates and expected credit losses. During the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, the cost of loans held for sale exceeded fair value. The Company recorded lower of cost or fair value write downs on its loans held for sale of $2.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to $34.7 million for year ended December 31, 2008. The write downs related to loans that were transferred from loans held for sale back into the operating loan portfolio during the period. At December 31, 2009, the fair value of loans held for sale exceeded the cost basis of $2.4 billion. 17. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES The Company has obligations under several non-cancelable operating leases. Expenses related to those agreements totaled $1.7 million, $2.5 million and $2.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Included in these amounts are lease expenses with CBNA for the Pittsford, New York facility of $1.6 million, $2.1 million and $2.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. This amount is included in Premises in the related party transactions table in Note 10. The Pittsford, New York facilities agreement expires in May 2014. Future minimum lease payments at December 31, 2009 under agreements classified as operating leases with non-cancelable terms in excess of one year for the calendar years after December 31, 2009 are as follows: (Dollars in thousands) Minimum Lease Payments 2010 $ 1,711 2011 1,759 2012 1,738 2013 1,754 2014 752 Thereafter – Total $ 7,714 At December 31, 2009, FFEL Program loans in the amount of $2.0 billion have been committed, but not disbursed. In addition, the Company has forward purchase agreements, primarily with CBNA, that obligate the Company to purchase all loans offered for sale and/or originated by the other party. At December 31, 2009, the aggregate obligation under these commitments totaled $0.6 billion. In addition, the Company provides lines of credit to certain institutions. Such lines are used by these organizations exclusively to disburse FFEL Program Loans which the Company will subsequently purchase. At December 31, 2009, these institutions had unused lines of credit of $13.4 million available to them. 113 In the ordinary course of business, the Company is involved in various litigation proceedings incidental to and typical of the business in which it is engaged. In the opinion of the Company’s management, the ultimate resolution of these proceedings would not be likely to have a material adverse effect on the results of the Company’s operations, financial condition or liquidity. 18. RESTRUCTURING AND RELATED CHARGES At December 31, 2009, the Company had a remaining restructuring reserve of less than $0.1 million included in Other liabilities, which decreased from $5.0 million at December 31, 2008. During June 2009, the Company announced a restructuring which resulted in the reduction of 10 positions within the Company. Full implementation of the June 2009 restructuring was completed during October 2009. Restructuring charges of $0.5 million related to this action were recorded in the second quarter. During 2008, the Company announced two restructuring initiatives in an effort to prudently manage the business through the unprecedented market conditions and to strategically reposition its business to benefit from certain products, channels, and operational structure while strategically deploying capital resources. As a result of the 2008 initiatives, the Company recorded restructuring and related charges of $12.4 million during 2008. These charges consisted of severance related costs of $11.8 million and non-cash charges associated with the impairment of software assets totaling $0.6 million. At December 31, 2009, all of the employees affected by the 2008 restructurings had been terminated. 19. SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED) (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) Fourth Third Second First 2009 Net interest income $ 74,574 $ 74,111 $ 70,884 $ 58,078 Provision for loan losses (36,194 ) (38,690 ) (44,826 ) (21,142 ) Net interest income after provision for loan losses 38,380 35,421 26,058 36,936 Gains on loans sold and securitized 10,413 17,712 17,864 - Fee and other income 49,147 68,535 30,851 6,958 Total operating expenses (33,074 ) (34,707 ) (35,211 ) (34,859 ) Income taxes (26,785 ) (32,154 ) (14,300 ) (1,513 ) Net income $ 38,081 $ 54,807 $ 25,262 $ 7,522 Basic and diluted earnings per common share $ 1.90 $ 2.74 $ 1.26 $ 0.38 Dividends declared per common share $ 0.35 $ 0.35 $ 0.35 $ 1.43 Common stock price: High $ 52.18 $ 52.55 $ 55.55 $ 58.45 Low $ 40.68 $ 36.37 $ 34.55 $ 24.61 Close (at quarter end) $ 46.57 $ 46.40 $ 37.20 $ 43.44 114 (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) Fourth Third Second First 2008 Net interest income $ 46,941 $ 83,521 $ 119,390 $ 81,447 Provision for loan losses (22,965 ) (46,791 ) (45,827 ) (25,312 ) Net interest income after provision for loan losses 23,976 36,730 73,563 56,135 Gains on loans sold and securitized 24 194 2,121 1,455 Fee and other income (loss) 33,803 16,923 39,012 11,459 Total operating expenses (37,715 ) (44,855 ) (51,935 ) (44,221 ) Income taxes (7,780 ) (3,553 ) (23,164 ) (8,745 ) Net income $ 12,308 $ 5,439 $ 39,597 $ 16,083 Basic and diluted earnings per common share $ 0.62 $ 0.27 $ 1.98 $ 0.80 Dividends declared per common share $ 1.43 $ 1.43 $ 1.43 $ 1.43 Common stock price: High $ 98.07 $ 126.15 $ 138.75 $ 126.00 Low $ 20.82 $ 83.06 $ 90.50 $ 92.05 Close (at quarter end) $ 41.00 $ 93.00 $ 98.08 $ 98.90 115 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION INFORMATION Form 10-K, Annual Report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, Commission File Number 1-11616. The Company is incorporated in the State of Delaware; its I.R.S. Employer Identification Number is 16-1427135; the address of the principal executive offices is 750 Washington Boulevard, Stamford, CT 06901; and its phone number is (203) 975-6861. The Company’s common stock is registered pursuant to section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “STU”. The Company is a well-known seasoned issuer (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933). The Company is required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Student Loan Corporation (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein and will not be contained in the Company’s 2009 Proxy Statement incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K, or in any amendment to this Form 10-K. The Company is an accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). The Company is not a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). The aggregate market value of the four million shares of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the Company as of the close of trading on June 30, 2009 was approximately $148.8 million. As of February 23, 2010, there were 20 million shares of the Company’s common stock outstanding. Certain information has been incorporated by reference, as described herein, into Part III of this annual report from the Company’s 2010 Proxy Statement. 116 EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES The following exhibits are either filed herewith or have been previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are filed herewith by incorporation by reference: · The Student Loan Corporation’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation · The Student Loan Corporation’s By-Laws, as amended · Material Contracts · Code of Ethics for Financial Professionals · Powers of Attorney of The Student Loan Corporation’s Directors Atal, Bailey, Doynow, Drake, Garside, Glover, Handler and Moseman. · Certifications pursuant to Section 302 and Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 A more detailed exhibit index has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Stockholders may obtain copies of that index or any of the documents on that index by writing to: The Student Loan Corporation, Investor Relations, 750 Washington Boulevard, 9th Floor, Stamford, CT 06901 or on the Internet at www.studentloan.com. Financial Statements filed for The Student Loan Corporation: · Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 · Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 · Consolidated Statements of changes in Stockholders’ Equity for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 · Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 117 10-K CROSS REFERENCE INDEX This Annual Report and Form 10-K incorporate into a single document the requirements of the accounting profession and the Securities and Exchange Commission, including a comprehensive explanation of 2009 results. Part I Page Item 1 Business 9, 46 - 53 Item 1A Risk Factors 54 - 66 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None Item 