ITEM 1A. Risk Factors We operate in a highly competitive environment in which there are numerous factors which can influence our business, financial position or results of operations and which can also cause the market value of our common stock to decline. Many of these factors are beyond our control and therefore, are difficult to predict. The following section sets forth what we believe to be the principal risks that could affect us, our business or our industry, and which could result in a material adverse impact on our financial results or cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate or decline. Risks Related to Our Business Our future success is dependent on our ability to develop, manufacture and commercialize new generic drug products. Our current business and expansion plan is dependent on our ability to successfully develop, manufacture and commercialize new generic drugs. There are numerous factors which can delay or prevent us from developing, manufacturing or commercializing new products, including: · inability to obtain requisite FDA approvals on a timely basis for new generic products; · reliance on partners for development of certain products; · the availability, on commercially reasonable terms, of raw materials, including active pharmaceutical ingredients and other key ingredients; · competition from other generic drug companies offering the same or similar products; · inadequate funding available for product marketing and sales; · failure to obtain market acceptance for new generic products; · failure to succeed in patent challenges; · unforeseen costs in development; · legal actions by brand competitors; and · inability to demonstrate bioequivalence in clinical studies as required by the FDA. 14 INTERPHARM HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (In thousands, except per share data) These, as well as other factors may lead to product approval delays or the abandonment of products in development. The failure of a product to reach successful commercialization could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Our future success is dependent upon incurring significant levels of research and development expenditures which will continue to have an adverse effect on our profitability. Our current business and expansion plan is dependent upon incurring significant levels of research and development expenditures, which continue to have an adverse effect on our profitability. This may cause the market price of our common stock to decline or fluctuate. We face intense competition which could significantly limit our expansion and growth and materially adversely affect our business and financial results. The generic drug market and industry is highly competitive. Most of our competitors have greater financial, research and development, marketing and other resources than we do and therefore, can develop and commercialize more products and develop and commercialize them faster and more efficiently than us. The markets in which we compete and intend to compete are undergoing, and are expected to continue to undergo, rapid and significant changes. We expect competition to intensify as technological advances are made. We also face intense price competition in certain of our products and expect to face intense competition in some of the products we intend to develop and market. This price competition may lead to reductions in prices and gross margins which can adversely affect our business and financial results, and can cause the price of our common stock to decline or fluctuate. We address competitive issues by seeking to develop and manufacture products where competition is limited. However, there can be no assurance that this strategy will be effective as there may be no barriers to additional competitors entering the market for these products. We may not maintain adequate product liability insurance. We currently maintain $10,000 in product liability insurance. While we believe this amount to be adequate, there can be no assurance that any one or series of claims may exceed our coverage or that coverage will not be denied with respect to a claim or series of claims. A lack of sufficient coverage could materially and adversely affect our business, financial results and the market value of our common stock. We enter into various agreements in the normal course of our business which have indemnification provisions, the triggering of which could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results. 15 INTERPHARM HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (In thousands, except per share data) In the normal course of our business, we enter into manufacturing, marketing and other agreements whereby we agree to indemnify the other party or parties in the event of certain breaches of the agreement or with respect to product defects or recalls. While we maintain insurance coverage which we believe can effectively mitigate our obligations under these indemnification provisions, there can be no assurance that such coverage will be adequate to do so. Should our obligations under an indemnification provision exceed our coverage or should coverage be denied, our business, financial results and the market value of our common stock could be materially and adversely affected. Our operating results are affected by a number of factors and may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis. Our operating results may vary substantially from quarter to quarter. Revenues and other operating results for any given period may be greater or less than those in other periods. Factors that may cause quarterly results to vary include, but are not limited to, the following: · the amount of research and development expenditures; · competition for new and existing products; · new product launches; · changes in pricing for raw materials and other inputs; and · legal actions. Fluctuations in our operating results may cause a decline or fluctuation in the price of our common stock. Reserves for credits and pricing adjustments may be inadequate. For certain customers, we issue various price adjustments and credits based on market prices or sales to certain customers. For instance, when we sell certain products to prime vendors for the U.S. government, the sales to the prime vendor are at one price, but if the products are resold to the government, the prime vendor gets to chargeback a portion of the purchase price because sales to the government are at a discount. Although we establish a reserve for these credits and chargebacks at the time of sale based on known contingencies, there can be no assurance that such reserves will be adequate. Increases in credits and chargebacks may exceed what was estimated as a result of a variety of reasons, including unanticipated increased competition or an unexpected change in one or more of its contractual relationships. Any failure to establish adequate reserves with respect to credits or chargebacks may result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial results and may cause the price of our common stock to decline or fluctuate. We are presently dependent on a limited number of products for most of our revenues. We currently generate most of our revenues and gross margins from the sale of a limited number of products. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, the following products accounted for 95% of our total revenues: Ibuprofen, generic Bactrim, Naproxen and our female hormone products. Ibuprofen alone accounted for 41% of our revenues. Any material adverse developments, including increased competition, with respect to the sale or use of these products, or our failure to successfully introduce new products, could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and gross margins. 16 INTERPHARM HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (In thousands, except per share data) We are presently dependent on a small number of major customers. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, five customers, in the aggregate, accounted for 62% of the company’s sales. While we have been able to diversify our customer base over the past two fiscal years, the loss of any one or more of these customers or the substantial reduction in orders from any one or more of such customers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition and could cause a decline in the market price of our common stock. Our loan agreement with Wells Fargo Business Credit imposes significant operating and financial restrictions, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking certain actions. Our loan agreement with Wells Fargo Business Credit, a copy of which is contained in our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on February 15, 2006, imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, make investments, sell assets, incur certain liens, or merge or consolidate. There can be no assurance that these restrictions will not adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to pursue available business opportunities. As set forth below under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis,” we were unable to meet certain financial covenants with Wells Fargo Business Credit and were required to raise additional monies through the sale of debt securities. On November 14, 2007, Wells Fargo Business Credit lifted certain of the restrictions on us which enabled us to raise additional monies, waived certain defaults and agreed to amended covenants. There can be no assurance that Wells Fargo Business Credit will act similarly in the future if we breach our credit agreement again. We may be liable to pay substantial damages, including liquidated damages, or be obligated to redeem such stock for cash if we do not timely perform certain obligations we have to holders of our Series B-1 and C-1 Preferred Stock. In May 2006 we sold to one institutional investor for $10,000 shares of our Series B-1 Convertible Preferred Stock. In September 2006 we sold to another institutional investor shares of our Series C-1 Convertible Preferred Stock for $10,000. Under the transaction documents relating to these sales the holders have the right to redeem such shares for cash upon the occurrence of certain events, including our failure to pay dividends on such stock, our failure to timely deliver certificates for shares of our common stock if the holders elect to convert such shares, if we default on indebtedness owed to third parties and such persons accelerate the maturity of at least $3,000 of such indebtedness, or there is a change in control of our company. In addition, we are subject to penalties, up to a maximum of 18% of the aggregate purchase price (which penalties accrue on a daily basis so long as we continue to be in default of our obligations) (a) if, within 60 days after a request to do so is made by the holders of such preferred stock, we do not timely file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) a registration statement covering the resale of shares of our common stock issuable to such holders upon conversion of the preferred stock, (b) if a registration statement is filed, such registration statement is not declared effective within 180 days after the request is made or (c) if after such a registration is declared effective, after certain grace periods the holders are unable to make sales of our common stock because of a failure to keep the registration statement effective or because of a suspension or delisting of our common stock from the American Stock Exchange or other principal exchange on which our common stock is traded. We are also subject to penalties if we fail to timely deliver to a holder (or credit the holder’s balance with Depository Trust Company if the common stock is to be held in street name) a certificate for shares of our common stock if the holder elects to convert its preferred stock into common stock. Therefore, upon the occurrence of one or more of the foregoing events our business and financial condition would likely be materially adversely affected and the market price of our common stock would likely decline. 17 INTERPHARM HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (In thousands, except per share data) We have defaulted in certain of our agreements with the holders of the Series B-1 and C-1 Preferred Stock which have been waived per the Consent and Waiver Agreement dated November 7, 2007, as described in the “Managements Discussion and Analysis” Section below and under the heading “Recent Developments” in Item 1. Those holders have provided a waiver of those defaults in exchange for a decrease in the conversion and exercise prices of the preferred stock and warrants held by them which has a dilutive effect on our common stock. There can be no assurance that any future defaults will be similarly waived. We are currently involved in legal disputes which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. As reported in our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on June 28, 2006, on June 1, 2006, Ray Vuono commenced an action against us in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, County of Suffolk (Index No. 13985/06). The complaint against Interpharm alleges, among other things, that Vuono is entitled to receive additional compensation as a “finder” under an agreement dated July 1, 2002 with respect to a reverse merger transaction consummated by us in May 2003. Vuono also alleges that he is entitled to additional compensation under the agreement in respect of a $41,500 credit facility from Wells Fargo Business Credit, Inc. obtained by us in February 2006 and the sale for $10,000 of shares of a new series of convertible preferred stock and warrants to purchase our common stock consummated by the Company with Tullis-Dickerson Capital Focus III, L.P. in May 2006. The total amount of damages sought by Vuono in the action was approximately $10,000. By recent decision and order dated March 29, 2007, the Court dismissed Vuono’s claims as they pertain to any fees claimed by Vuono related to a reverse merger of Interpharm, Inc. and the Company and declined to dismiss other claims. The dismissed claims represent approximately $7,000 of the total of $10,000 claimed by Vuono. 18 INTERPHARM HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (In thousands, except per share data) The Court deferred its decision on Vuono’s motion to disqualify counsel, and held hearing on the matter on September 24, 2007. A final decision on the motion to disqualify is not expected until early 2008. The action, including all discovery, is stayed pending the Court’s decision. In May 2007, a former employee commenced an action against us with the New York State Division of Human Rights. The complaint alleges claims of race discrimination. The total sought by the former employee in the action is unspecified. We believe that the claims are without merit and are vigorously defending the action. Currently, we cannot predict with certainty the outcome of this litigation. While we believe that these claims are without merit and are vigorously defending the action, should we be unsuccessful in our defense, our business and financial condition will be materially adversely affected and the market price of our common stock could decline. On October 8, 2007, Leiner Health Products LLC and the Company entered into a Settlement Agreement and Release (“Settlement”) in connection with an October 2005 manufacturing and supply agreement for ibuprofen tablets. As part of the Settlement, Leiner executed a Promissory Note for the amount it owed the Company. On October 12, 2007, the Company notified Leiner that one lot of this product was subject to a voluntary recall. Leiner subsequently withheld any additional payments under the Settlement until they received reasonable assurances from the Company that the additional lots in their possession would not be subject to the recall as well. If all lots were recalled, Leiner would be entitled to a reimbursement by the Company of approximately $256. However, the Company does not believe any further lots will be recalled. We rely on independent third parties for some of the research and development and testing required for the regulatory approval of our products. Any failure by any of these third parties to perform this research and development or testing properly and in a timely manner may have an adverse effect upon our ability to obtain regulatory approvals. Our applications for the regulatory approval of products incorporate the results of research and development and testing and other information that is conducted or gathered by independent third parties (including, for example, Tris Pharma, Inc. whose agreements with us are described fully under “Business”), manufacturers of raw materials, testing laboratories, contract research organizations or independent research facilities. Our ability to obtain regulatory approval on the products being developed and tested is dependent upon the quality of the work performed by these third parties, the quality of the third parties’ facilities and the accuracy of the information provided by third parties. In some instances, we have little or no control over any of these factors. If this testing is not performed properly, our ability to obtain regulatory approvals could be restricted or delayed. Our future success depends on our ability to attract and retain key employees and consultants. Our future success will depend, to a substantial degree, upon the continued service of the key members of our management team. The loss of the services of key members of our management team, or their inability to perform services on our behalf, could have a material effect on our business and financial condition and could result in a decline in the market value of our common stock. 19 INTERPHARM HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (In thousands, except per share data) Our success, and the success of our expansion plan, also will depend, to a large extent, upon the contributions of our existing sales, marketing, operations, regulatory, compliance scientific, quality control and quality assurance staff and our ability to build their departments and hire additional qualified personnel. We compete for qualified personnel against other larger companies which may offer more favorable employment opportunities. If we are not able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we could experience constraints that would adversely affect our ability to sell and market products, or to support internal research and development programs. In particular, product development programs depend on the ability to attract and retain highly skilled scientists, biochemists, and sales and marketing efforts depend on the ability to attract and retain skilled and experienced sales, marketing and quality assurance representatives. Although we believe we have been successful in attracting and retaining skilled personnel in all areas of our business, we cannot assure that we can continue to attract, train and retain such personnel. Any failure in this regard could limit our growth and expansion and new product development. Our ability to service our debt from Wells Fargo Business Credit and make dividend payments to the holders of our Series B-1 and C-1 Preferred Stock and to meet our cash requirements depends on numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control. Our ability to satisfy our obligations to Wells Fargo Business Credit, the holders of our Series B-1 and C-1 Preferred Stock, and the holders of our Junior Subordinated Secured 12% Promissory Note due 2010 and the holders of our Secured 12% Promissory Notes Due 2009 will depend on our future operating performance and financial results, which will be subject, in part, to factors beyond our control, including interest rates and general economic, financial and business conditions. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow, we may be required to: refinance all or a portion of our debt with Wells Fargo, obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate or other purposes; redirect a substantial portion of our cash flow to debt service, which as a result, might not be available for our operations or other purposes; sell some of our assets or operations; reduce or delay capital expenditures; or revise or delay our operations or strategic plans. If we are required to take any of these actions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In addition, there can be no assurance that we would be able to take any of these actions, that these actions would enable us to continue to satisfy our capital requirements or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our agreement with Wells Fargo or under the terms of the Series B-1 and C-1 Preferred Stock. 20 INTERPHARM HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (In thousands, except per share data) Risks Related to Our Industry Litigation is common in our industry and can cause significant expense and delays. Branded pharmaceutical companies with patented products are increasingly suing companies that produce generic forms of their patented brand name products for alleged patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights, which may delay or prevent the entry of such generic products into the market. Generally, a generic drug may not be marketed until the applicable patent(s) on the brand name drug expires. When an ANDA is filed with the FDA for approval of a generic drug, the filing person may either certify that the patent listed by the FDA as covering the generic product is about to expire, in which case the ANDA will not become effective until the expiration of such patent, or that any patent listed as covering the generic drug is invalid or will not be infringed by the manufacture, sale or use of the new drug for which the ANDA is filed. Under either circumstance, there is a risk that a branded pharmaceutical company may sue the filing person for alleged patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Also, other companies that compete with us by manufacturing, developing and/or selling the same generic pharmaceutical products similarly may file lawsuits against us claiming patent infringement or invalidity. Because a portion of our current business involves the marketing and development soon to be off-patent products, the threat of litigation, the outcome of which is inherently uncertain, is always present. Such litigation is often costly and time consuming, and could result in a substantial delay in, or prevent, the commercialization of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition and the market for our common stock. We are susceptible to product liability claims that may not be covered by insurance, which, if successful, could require us to pay substantial damages. We face the risk of loss resulting from, and the adverse publicity associated with, product liability lawsuits, whether or not such claims are valid. In many instances, there is no way that such claims can be avoided. Unanticipated side effects or unfavorable publicity concerning any of our products would likely have an adverse effect on our ability to achieve acceptance by prescribing physicians, managed care providers, pharmacies and other retailers, customers and patients. Even unsuccessful product liability claims could require us to spend money on litigation, divert management’s time, damage our reputation and impair the marketability of our products. In addition, while we believe our current level of product liability insurance is sufficient, there can be no assurance that it will be enough to cover any one or series of claims. There can also be no assurance that as we expand, that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance coverage at acceptable costs. A successful product liability claim that is excluded from coverage or exceeds policy limits could require us to pay substantial sums. In addition, insurance coverage for product liability may become prohibitively expensive in the future. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation, the non-compliance with which may result in fines and/or other sanctions, including product seizures, product recalls, injunctive actions and criminal prosecutions. 21 INTERPHARM HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (In thousands, except per share data) We are subject to extensive regulation by the federal government, principally the FDA and the Drug Enforcement Administration and state governments. The FFDC Act, the Controlled Substances Act, the Generic Drug Enforcement Act of 1992 (the “Generic Act”), and other federal statutes and regulations govern the testing, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, recordkeeping, approval, advertising and promotion of our products. The Generic Act, a result of legislative hearings and investigations into the generic drug approval process, is particularly relevant to our business. Under the Generic Act, the FDA is authorized to impose debarment and other penalties on individuals and companies that commit illegal acts relating to the generic drug approval process. In some situations, the Generic Act requires the FDA not to accept or review for a period of time ANDAs from a company or an individual that has committed certain violations and provides for temporary denial of approval of applications during its investigation. Additionally, non-compliance with other applicable regulatory requirements may result in fines, perhaps significant in amount, and other sanctions imposed by courts and/or regulatory bodies, including the initiation of product seizures, product recalls, injunctive actions and criminal prosecutions. The FDA also has the authority to withdraw its approval of drugs in accordance with statutory procedures. In addition to the new drug approval process, the FDA also regulates the facilities and operational procedures that we use to manufacture our products. We must register our facilities with the FDA. All products manufactured in those facilities must be made in a manner consistent with current good manufacturing practices (“cGMP”). Compliance with cGMP regulations requires substantial expenditures of time, money and effort in such areas as production and quality control to ensure full technical compliance. The FDA periodically inspects our manufacturing facilities for compliance. FDA approval to manufacture a drug is site-specific. Failure to comply with cGMP regulations at one of our manufacturing facilities could result in an enforcement action brought by the FDA which could include withholding the approval of ANDAs or other product applications of that facility. If the FDA were to require one of our manufacturing facilities to cease or limit production, our business could be adversely affected. Delay and cost in obtaining FDA approval to manufacture at a different facility also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. Because of the chemical ingredients of pharmaceutical products and the nature of the manufacturing process, we are subject to extensive environmental regulation and the risk of incurring liability for damages and/or the costs of remedying environmental problems. In the future, we may be required to increase expenditures in order to remedy environmental problems and/or comply with applicable regulations. Additionally, if we fail to comply with environmental regulations to use, discharge or dispose of hazardous materials appropriately or otherwise to comply with the provisions of our operating licenses, the licenses could be revoked and we could be subject to criminal sanctions and/or substantial civil liability or be required to suspend or modify our manufacturing operations. As part of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, companies are now required to file with the FTC and the Department of Justice certain types of agreements entered into between brand and generic pharmaceutical companies related to the manufacture, marketing and sale of generic versions of brand drugs. This requirement could affect the manner in which generic drug manufacturers resolve intellectual property litigation and other disputes with brand pharmaceutical companies and could result generally in an increase in private-party litigation against pharmaceutical companies or additional investigations or proceedings by the FTC or other governmental authorities. The impact of this requirement, and the potential private-party lawsuits associated with arrangements between brand name and generic drug manufacturers, is uncertain and could adversely affect the Company’s business. 22 INTERPHARM HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (In thousands, except per share data) Our distribution operations and our customers are subject to various regulatory requirements, including from the DEA, FDA and State Boards of Pharmacy and Health, among others. These include licensing, registration, recordkeeping, security and reporting requirements. Failure by the Company to comply with these regulatory requirements could impact our ability to make and/or maintain sales of our products resulting in a materially adverse impact on the Company’s finances. Our raw materials are purchased primarily from foreign distributors of bulk pharmaceutical chemicals. Any significant supply interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition and could cause a decline in the market value of our common stock. Our raw materials are purchased primarily from foreign companies. From time to time, we have experienced difficulty in obtaining certain raw materials and products, there can be no assurance that supply interruptions or delays will not occur again in the future or that we will not have to obtain substitute materials or products, which would require additional regulatory approvals. In addition, changes in its raw material suppliers could result in delays in production, higher raw material costs and loss of sales and customers because regulatory authorities must generally approve raw material sources for pharmaceutical products. Any significant supply interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition and could cause a decline in the market value of our common stock. We may not be able to utilize all of the deferred tax assets recorded on our balance sheet. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes,” we are required to establish a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The valuation allowance should be sufficient to reduce the deferred tax asset to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. At June 30, 2007, we had a total of $5,975 in net deferred tax assets, which we believe are realizable based on the requirements of SFAS 109. However, because we have shown volatile operating results in the past and because there is no guarantee that the amount and timing of net profits, if any, will be sufficient to fully utilize our deferred tax assets, there is a risk that we will have to record an additional valuation allowance in the future. Moreover, there is a risk that unfavorable audits of, for example, tax credit or NOL carryforwards by government agencies or change of ownership limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 may reduce the value of our deferred tax assets. If any of these events were to occur, our financial results for one or more periods would be adversely affected. 23 INTERPHARM HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (In thousands, except per share data) RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON STOCK Our research and development expenditures may not lead to the commercialization of successful products. Our current business and expansion plan calls for, and is dependent upon, research and development expenditures in order to add new products to our product line, but also upon the projected success of new products. There can be no assurance, however, that these research and development expenditures will result in successful or profitable products as there are many factors which affect the success of pharmaceutical products in the market such as consumer acceptance, continuing acceptance by the medical profession, litigation and product liability and competition. In the event that our significant research and development expenditures do not result in profitable products, our business and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected and the market price of our common stock would decline. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and are not likely to do so in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future but will review this policy as circumstances dictate. Six of our shareholders control us through their ownership and control of voting stock. Four of our shareholders, one of whom is an Executive Vice President and owns approximately 27% of our common stock, along with two investors who share a proxy from three of these shareholders, own and control in the aggregate approximately 76% of our common stock. These stockholders can effectively control us and their interests may materially differ from other shareholders. There is only a limited trading market for our common stock. Our common stock is traded on the American Stock Exchange, but the public float available for trading is currently relatively small. Therefore, the volume and price of trading in our common stock is subject to significant fluctuations. The Waivers obtained from the holders of our Series B-1 and C-1 Preferred Stock will be dilutive to our other shareholders. Pursuant to the terms of the purchase of our Series B-1 and C-1 Preferred Stock, we cannot raise additional capital through the sale of securities until such time as the common stock into which the Series B-1 and C-1 Preferred Stock is convertible has been registered for re-sale, which has not yet occurred. On November 8, 2007, in exchange for a waiver permitted us to sell additional securities, we lowered the conversion price of the Series B-1 and C-1 Preferred Stock from $1.5338 to $0.95 and lowered the exercise price of an aggregate of 4,564 warrants held by them from $1.639 to $0.95. The decreased conversion and exercise prices could result in the issuance of an additional 8,013 shares by us without additional consideration which could increase our net loss per share to common stockholders and may have an adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. 24 INTERPHARM HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (In thousands, except per share data) The trading of our common stock has been suspended for failure to comply with rules and regulations of the American Stock Exchange relating to timely SEC filings. As reported in our Current Reports on Form 8-K and Form 8-K/A filed with the SEC on October 12 and 15, 2007, respectively, we disclosed that as a result of negotiations with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, acting through our Wells Fargo Business Credit operating division ("Wells Fargo"), the Company would not be able to file its Form 10-K by its due date of October 15, 2007 and that we anticipated filing upon the conclusion of negotiations with Wells Fargo. We further disclosed that on October 12, 2007, we notified the American Stock Exchange (“AMEX”) that we would not file its Form 10-K in a timely manner in conformity with Section 610(b) of the AMEX Company Guide. On October 15, 2007, we received notice from the AMEX that trading in its common stock would be halted pending compliance with AMEX rules through the filing of financial information and on October 16, 2007, trading in its common stock was halted. We anticipate that we will be unable to file its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the three months ended September 30, 2007 by its due date. This late filing is likely to result in an additional or continued suspension of trading in the Company’s common stock on the AMEX, and could result in the delisting of the Company’s common stock from the AMEX. A continued or additional trading suspension may adversely impact the market value of our common stock in the event that trading again commences and a delisting of our common stock from the AMEX is likely to adversely impact the market value of our common stock if it can be traded over-the-counter and may result in a substantial loss of value if it cannot be so traded. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 25 INTERPHARM HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (In thousands, except per share data) ITEM 