ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We operate in a market environment that involves significant risks, many of which are beyond our control. The following risk factors may adversely impact our results of operations, financial position, cash flow and the market price of our common stock. Although we believe that we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, they are not the only ones facing us. There may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that also may affect our results of operations and financial condition. 8 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Industry We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from public school funding, which is dependent on support from federal, state, and local governments. Changes or reductions in funding for public school systems could reduce our revenues and cash flows and negatively impact our margins and impede the growth of our business. The availability of funding to purchase our products is subject to many factors that affect government spending. These factors include downturns in general economic conditions, like those which we are currently experiencing, that can reduce government tax revenues and may affect education funding, emergence of other priorities that can divert government funding from educational objectives, periodic changes in government leadership that can change spending priorities, and the government appropriations process, which is often slow and unpredictable. In many instances, customers rely on specific funding appropriations to purchase our products. Curtailments, delays, or reductions in this funding can delay or reduce revenues and cash flow we had otherwise forecasted to receive. The growth of our business depends on continued investment by public school systems in interactive educational technology and products. Changes to funding of public school systems can slow this type of investment and adversely affect our revenues and market opportunities. If national educational standards and assessments are adopted, or if existing metrics for applying state standards are revised, new competitors could more easily enter our markets or the demands in the markets we currently serve may change. With the reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, known as No Child Left Behind, or NCLB, in 2001, Congress conditioned the receipt of federal funding for education on the establishment of educational standards, annual assessments and the achievement of adequate yearly progress milestones. These standards are established at the state level, and there are currently no national educational standards that are required to be assessed pursuant to NCLB. As part of NCLB, each state is required to establish clear performance standards for each grade level in reading, math and science in grades 3 through 8, and for high school exit or end-of-course exams. Our products are specifically built to align to the educational and assessment standards in all 50 states, which we believe differentiates them from the products offered by our competitors. If a uniform set of national standards and assessments were to replace individual state level standards, it would be easier for competitors to develop similar products. If such an increase in competition occurred, our ability to compete effectively could be negatively impacted and our revenue and profitability could materially decline. Competition in our industry is intense and growing, which could adversely affect our performance. Our industry is intensely competitive, rapidly evolving, and subject to technological change. We compete primarily against organizations offering educational and training software and services, including comprehensive curriculum software publishers, companies providing single-title retail products, and Internet content and service providers. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us. The demand for e-learning products and services has grown significantly with the advent of on-line educational institutions, improvements in Internet access and reductions in the cost of technology. While this growing demand presents opportunities for us, it also results in the addition or consolidation of competitors. Increased competition in our industry could result in price reductions, reduced operating margins, or loss of market share, which could seriously harm our business, cash flows, and operating results. 9 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Company The success of our business model is dependent on growth in market acceptance of online subscription products delivered over the Internet. If this acceptance does not grow or is otherwise diminished, our revenues will continue to decline and may affect our ability to maintain profitability. Our ability to generate revenue growth and to continue to be profitable is dependent on significant growth of subscription fees to our Internet-based products. Market acceptance of software solutions delivered over the Internet can be negatively affected by factors such as customers’ confidentiality concerns with regard to student information that is stored outside of their controlled computing environments, existing investments in owned courseware, technology infrastructure and related personnel, customer preferences with regard to perpetual licenses vs. annual subscription decisions, and availability, reliability and security of access to the Internet within a school district. Adverse changes in these factors could result in a decline in the acceptance of web-based courseware solutions making it difficult for us to execute our current business model. As a result, we may need to reevaluate that business model, which may affect our ability to continue to achieve profitability. The success of our product investment strategy and our ability to remain competitive against companies with access to larger amounts of capital is dependent on our ability to maintain our cost-effective off-shore development resources. If we are unable to do so, we would experience significant product delays and increases in product development costs which would adversely affect our strategy, competitive position, revenues and profitability. More than 40% of our total software development and maintenance spending in fiscal year 2009 was incurred on off-shore development resources. We believe the use of these resources provides us greater flexibility, cost savings, and a greater return on our development investments. These resources are also critical to our ability to respond quickly to market changes and to compete against companies with access to larger amounts of capital than we have. However, this dependence introduces risks common to many outsourcing relationships. These risks include the supplier’s ability to maintain sufficient capacity, control costs, and hire, train, and retain qualified resources, as well as risks associated with our limited direct control and physical access to these resources including the ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. In our supplier agreements we strive to include provisions intended to limit some of these risks; however, that is not always possible and there can be no assurance that they will be effective at doing so. If our supplier relationships are suddenly and adversely affected, it would cause significant product delays, increased development costs and could impact product usability, which would have a material negative effect on our competitive position, revenues and profitability. 10 Table of Contents Our future success may be dependent on our ability to compete in the broader instructional materials market against larger competitors with significantly greater resources than we have. The instructional materials market has been dominated for many years by a small number of large publishers that provide textbooks and other printed materials to the school market. These companies have well-established distribution channels and significantly greater marketing, curriculum and financial resources than us. As electronic instructional materials continue to grow and take market share from print materials, competition from these companies will increase and we may not be able to compete effectively. If we are unable to adapt our products and services to technological changes, to the emergence of new computing devices and to more sophisticated online services, we may lose market share and service revenue, and our business could suffer. We need to anticipate, develop and introduce new products, services and applications on a timely and cost effective basis that keeps pace with technological developments and changing customer needs. We may encounter difficulties responding to these changes that could delay our introduction of products and services or require us to make larger than anticipated investments to maintain existing products. Software industries are characterized by rapid technological change and obsolescence, frequent product introductions, and evolving industry standards. For example, the number of individuals who access the internet through devices other than a personal computer, such as personal digital assistants, mobile telephones, televisions and set-top box devices, has increased dramatically, and this trend is likely to continue. Our subscription services were designed for internet use on desktop and laptop computers. The lower resolution, functionality and memory associated with alternative devices currently available may make the use of our products through such devices difficult. We have no experience to date in operating versions of our products and services developed or optimized for users of alternative devices. Accordingly, it is difficult to predict the problems we may encounter in developing versions of our products and services for use on these alternative devices, and we may need to devote significant resources to the creation, support and maintenance of such versions. If we fail to develop or sell products and services cost effectively that respond to these or other technological developments and changing customer needs, we may lose market share and revenue and our business could materially suffer. Since fiscal 2005 we have transitioned our business from products that are licensed on a perpetual basis to those that are licensed on a subscription basis. The different revenue recognition characteristics of these products affect the comparability of our financial results. As a result, our business will be difficult to compare from period to period. Our business is also seasonal. As a result of these factors, we may continue to experience unexpected fluctuations in our quarterly cash flows, revenues and results from operations, which may adversely affect our stock price and the implementation of our strategy. We expect sales of perpetual license products and related software maintenance to continue to decline because we completed the transition of our business model to subscription-based products. As a result, our operating results may be difficult to compare to historical periods, and may fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter due to factors such as the size, timing, and product mix of license vs. subscription orders. In addition, public school budget cycles result in purchases that have historically been concentrated in the last two quarters of our fiscal year. Accordingly, our annual operating performance can be materially and adversely affected if factors such as school budget constraints, availability of federal and state funding, sales productivity and new product introductions do not align with these purchasing patterns. If such annual results are not achieved we may have to delay or adjust components of our strategy implementation which may affect our ability to maintain profitability. 11 Table of Contents Our transition from perpetual to subscription-based products has resulted in an increasing trend whereby cash receipts from the sale of our products has shifted from payment shortly after the time of sale, to payment over the subscription period. This trend, together with the seasonality of our business previously discussed, may adversely affect our short-term liquidity. We generally require that one-year subscriptions and sales of perpetual licenses be paid in full within a short time after completion of the sale. Multi-year subscription customers may be given an option to pay for these subscriptions annually in advance, and these customers are increasingly electing, or negotiating, to make multi-year payments. This increasing delay in the receipt of payment for the sales of our products, together with the seasonality of our business discussed above, has adversely affected our cash flows and may increase our short-term liquidity needs. Misuse or misappropriation of our proprietary rights or inadvertent infringement by us on the rights of others could adversely affect our results of operations. We regard certain of our intellectual property rights as essential to our business. We rely on a combination of the laws of copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets, as well as license agreements, employment and employment termination agreements, third-party non-disclosure agreements, and other methods to protect our proprietary rights. We enforce our intellectual property rights when we become aware of any infringements or potential infringements and believe they warrant such action. If we were unsuccessful in our ability to protect these rights, our operating results could be adversely affected. Although we believe our products and services have been independently developed and that none of our products or services infringes on the rights of others, third parties may assert infringement claims against us in the future. We may be required to modify our products, services or technologies or obtain a license to permit our continued use of those rights. We may not be able to do so in a timely manner or upon reasonable terms and conditions. Failure to do so could harm our business and operating results. In addition, we leverage certain third party generated products through license and/or royalty agreements and we have the risk that certain of these relationships will not continue or that the underlying products will not be properly supported or updated by the third parties. We have a number of technological mechanisms to prevent or inhibit unauthorized copying of our software products and generally require the execution of a written license agreement, which restricts use and copying of our software products. However, if such copying or misuse were to occur to any substantial degree, our operating results could be adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to our web-based products, they may be perceived as not being secure, customers may curtail or stop using these products and we may incur significant legal and financial exposure and liabilities. The use of our web-based subscription products involves the storage of certain personal information with regard to the teachers and students using these products. If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access to this information occurs, our reputation will be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. Because the techniques used to attempt unauthorized access to systems such as ours change frequently and generally are not recognized until attempted on a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the security of our system could be harmed and we could lose sales and customers. Claims relating to content available on or accessible from, our web sites may subject us to liabilities and additional expense. Our web-based subscription products incorporate content not under our direct control including content from, and links to, third-party web sites, and content uploaded by our customers. As a result, we could be subject to claims relating to this content. In addition to exposing us to potential liability, claims of this type could require us to change our web sites in a manner that could be less attractive to our customers and divert our financial and development resources. Interruptions or delays in service from our third-party Web hosting facilities could impair the delivery of our service and harm our business. Our subscription products are delivered using standard computer hardware located in two, third-party Web hosting facilities, with the primary facility located on the west coast of the United States. We do not control the operation of these facilities, and they are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. Despite precautions taken at these facilities, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems at these facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in our service. Even with disaster recovery arrangements in place, our service could be interrupted. Interruptions in our service may reduce our revenue, cause us to issue credits, cause customers to terminate their subscriptions and adversely affect our renewal rates and our ability to attract new customers. Our business will also be harmed if our customers and potential customers believe our service is unreliable. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 