ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a number of factors that could materially affect future developments and performance. In addition to factors affecting our business that have been described elsewhere in this Form 10-K, any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our common stock. Economic conditions could have an adverse effect on our business. Although economic conditions in the United States have gradually improved, the number of unemployed and under-employed workers remains significant despite increases in economic activity. During the year ended December 31, 2014, the percentage of our patient service revenue being reimbursed under GHC Programs decreased slightly as compared to the year ended December 31, 2013. We could, however, experience shifts to GHC Programs, and possible lower patient volumes, if economic conditions do not continue to improve or if they deteriorate. Adverse economic conditions could also lead to additional increases in the number of unemployed and under-employed workers and a decline in the number of private employers that offer healthcare insurance coverage to their employees. Employers that do offer healthcare coverage may increase the required contributions from employees to pay for their coverage and increase patient responsibility amounts. As a consequence, the number of patients who participate in GHC Programs or are uninsured could increase. In addition, due to the rising costs of managed care premiums and patient responsibility amounts, we may experience increased bad debt due to patients’ inability to pay for certain services. Further, it is too early to determine whether the ACA will increase or decrease the number of our patients with private healthcare insurance, obtained either through employers or the recently established insurance exchanges. Payments received from GHC Programs are substantially less than payments received from private healthcare insurance programs (managed care and other third-party payors). In addition, payments under the recently established health care exchanges may be less than payments from private healthcare insurance programs. A payor mix shift from private healthcare insurance programs to government payors may result in an increase in our estimated provision for contractual adjustments and uncollectibles and a corresponding decrease in our net revenue. Further increases in the government component of our payor mix at the expense of other third-party payors could result in a significant reduction in our average reimbursement rates. State budgetary constraints could have an adverse effect on our reimbursement from Medicaid programs. As a result of recent economic conditions, many states are continuing to collect less revenue than they did in prior years and as a consequence are facing budget shortfalls and underfunded pension and other obligations. Although shortfalls for the more recent budgetary years have declined, they are still significant by historical standards. The financial condition of the states in which the Company does business could lead to reduced or delayed funding for Medicaid programs and, in turn, reduced or delayed reimbursement for physician services, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. The birth rate in the United States may decline. Final birth data for 2013 indicate that total births in the United States were essentially flat compared to 2012 and 2011. Although the provisional data for the full year of 2014 are not yet available, we expect that birth trends may have continued to stabilize. However, any future declines in births could have an adverse effect on our patient volumes and revenue. The ACA may have a significant effect on our business. The ACA contains a number of provisions that have affected us and could affect us over the next several years. These provisions include the recent establishment of health insurance exchanges to facilitate the purchase of qualified health plans, expanding Medicaid eligibility, subsidizing insurance premiums and creating 26 Table of Contents requirements and incentives for businesses to provide healthcare benefits. Other provisions contain changes to healthcare fraud and abuse laws and expand the scope of the FCA. The ACA contains numerous other measures that could also affect us. For example, payment modifiers are being developed that will differentiate payments to physicians under federal healthcare programs based on quality and cost of care. In addition, other provisions authorize voluntary demonstration projects relating to the bundling of payments for episodes of hospital care and the sharing of cost savings achieved under the Medicare program. CMS also issued a final rule under the ACA establishing a Medicare Shared Savings Program (“MSSP”) that allows physicians, hospitals and other health care providers to coordinate care for Medicare beneficiaries through Accountable Care Organizations (“ACOs”). ACOs are entities consisting of healthcare providers and suppliers organized to deliver services to Medicare beneficiaries and eligible under the MSSP to receive a share of any cost savings the entity can achieve by delivering services to those beneficiaries at a cost below a set baseline and based upon established quality of care standards. We will continue to evaluate the impact of the MSSP on our business and operations. Many of the ACA’s most significant reforms, such as the establishment of state-based and federally facilitated insurance exchanges that provide a marketplace for eligible individuals and small employers to purchase health care insurance, only became effective in the beginning of 2014. Following some well-publicized technical issues in accessing and enrolling in the federal online exchange, enrollment in the federal and state exchange healthcare plans met the 7 million first-year target established by the Congressional Budget Office. In the second enrollment period for the exchanges, which runs through February 15, 2015, it has been projected that approximately 9 million people, including new applicants and returning customers, will be enrolled. In November 2014, however, the Supreme Court granted certiorari to hear an appeal challenging the legality of an Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) regulation providing subsidies for insurance purchased on the federal exchanges and arguing that the text of the ACA only allows for subsidies on state-based exchanges. Only 13 states created their own exchanges; the remainder of states provided insurance coverage on the federal exchanges. A ruling in that case, King v. Burwell, is expected by June 2015. If the challenge is successful, approximately 5 million people who obtained healthcare coverage through the federal facilitated insurance exchanges could lose their subsidies and their health insurance coverage. In addition, in some cases, the patient responsibility costs related to healthcare plans obtained through the insurance exchanges may be high and could increase in the future, and we may experience increased bad debt due to patients’ inability to pay for certain services. The ACA also allows states to expand their Medicaid programs through federal payments that fund most of the cost of increasing the Medicaid eligibility income limit from a state’s historic eligibility levels to 133% of the federal poverty level. To date, however, 20 states have expressed their intent not to expand Medicaid eligibility to cover this low income patient population. However, several states are exploring the opportunity to expand Medicaid eligibility in a manner that is different than set forth under the ACA. As a result of these and other uncertainties, we cannot predict whether there will be more uninsured patients than was anticipated when the ACA was enacted. Federal and state agencies are expected to continue to develop regulations and implement provisions of the ACA. However, given the complexity and the number of changes expected as a result of the ACA, as well as the implementation timetable and delays for many of them, we cannot predict the ultimate impacts of the ACA, as they may not be known for several years. The ACA also remains subject to continuing legislative scrutiny, including efforts by Congress to amend or repeal a number of its provisions as well as administrative actions delaying the effectiveness of key provisions. As a result, we cannot predict with any assurance the ultimate effect of the ACA on our Company, nor can we provide any assurance that its provisions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Expanding eligibility of government-sponsored programs could adversely affect our reimbursement. In February 2009, Congress reauthorized the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (“SCHIP”) through September 2013 and expanded its eligibility coverage. The ACA extended the reauthorization through September 27 Table of Contents 2015. Further expansion of SCHIP eligibility and the ACA’s expansion of Medicaid coverage could cause patients who otherwise would have participated in private healthcare insurance programs to participate in GHC Programs. Additional reform efforts could change the eligibility requirements for Medicaid and for other GHC Programs and could increase the number of patients who participate in such programs or the number of uninsured patients. Payments received from government-sponsored programs are substantially less than payments received from private healthcare insurance programs (managed care and other third-party payors). A payor mix shift from private healthcare insurance programs to government payors may result in an increase in our estimated provision for contractual adjustments and uncollectibles and a corresponding decrease in our net revenue. Further increases in the government component of our payor mix at the expense of other third-party payors could also result in a significant reduction in our average reimbursement rates. Government-funded programs or private insurers may limit, reduce or make retroactive adjustments to reimbursement amounts or rates. A significant portion of our net revenue is derived from payments made by GHC Programs, principally Medicare and Medicaid. These government-funded programs, as well as private insurers, have taken and may continue to take steps, including a movement toward increased use of managed care organizations, value-based purchasing, and new patient care models to control the cost, eligibility for, use and delivery of healthcare services as a result of budgetary constraints and cost containment pressures due to unfavorable economic conditions, rising healthcare costs and for other reasons, including those described above under Item 1. Business—“Government Regulation—Government Reimbursement Requirements.” These government-funded programs and private insurers may attempt other measures to control costs, including bundling of services and denial of, or reduction in, reimbursement for certain services and treatments. As a result, payments from government programs or private payors may decrease significantly. Also, any adjustment in Medicare reimbursement rates may have a detrimental impact on our reimbursement rates not only for Medicare patients, but also for patients covered under Medicaid and other third-party payors, because Medicaid and other third-party payors often base their reimbursement rates on a percentage of Medicare rates. Our business may also be materially affected by limitations on, or reductions in, reimbursement amounts or rates or elimination of coverage for certain individuals or treatments. Moreover, because government-funded programs generally provide for reimbursements on a fee-schedule basis rather than on a charge-related basis, we generally cannot increase our revenue from these programs through increases in the amount we charge for our services. To the extent our costs increase, we may not be able to recover our increased costs from these programs, and cost containment measures and market changes in non-government-funded insurance plans have generally restricted our ability to recover, or shift to non-governmental payors, these increased costs. In addition, funds we receive from third-party payors are subject to audit with respect to the proper billing for physician and ancillary services and, accordingly, our revenue from these programs may be adjusted retroactively. Any retroactive adjustments to our reimbursement amounts could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our common stock. In addition, Medicare reimbursement rates could be reduced due to statutory formulas. Presently, Medicare pays for all physician services based upon a national fee schedule which contains a list of uniform rates. The payment rates under the fee schedule are determined based on national uniform relative value units for the services provided, a geographic adjustment factor and a conversion factor. The fee schedule is adjusted annually based on a complex formula that is linked in part to the use of services by Medicare beneficiaries and the growth in gross domestic product. Since 2002, this formula has resulted in negative payment updates under the fee schedule that have grown increasingly larger, and Congress has had to take repeated legislative action to reverse scheduled payment reductions, most recently in March 2014, when legislation was enacted to avert a rate reduction and temporarily increase Medicare physician payment rates through the end of March 2015. If Congress does not take further action, the Medicare fee schedule will be reduced by approximately 20% effective April 1, 2015. Fee reductions will continue to be scheduled annually unless Congress takes action in the future to modify or reform the mechanism by which payment rates are updated. In addition to the reductions under the Medicare fee schedule, the Budget Control Act of 2011 sets forth across-the-board cuts (“sequestrations”) to 28 Table of Contents Medicare reimbursement rates which began in April 2013. These annual reductions of 2% apply to mandatory and discretionary spending in the years 2013 to 2021, and were extended through fiscal year 2024 by the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 and Public Law 113-82. Unless Congress takes action in the future to modify these sequestrations, Medicare reimbursements will be reduced by 2% annually. If no action is taken, reductions in the fee schedule and reductions as a result of the sequestrations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our common stock. We may become subject to billing investigations by federal and state government authorities. Federal and state laws, rules and regulations impose substantial penalties, including criminal and civil fines, monetary penalties, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs and imprisonment, on entities or individuals (including any individual corporate officers or physicians deemed responsible) that fraudulently or wrongfully bill government-funded programs or other third-party payors for healthcare services. CMS issued a final rule requiring states to implement a Medicaid Recovery Audit Contractor (“RAC”) program effective January 1, 2012. States are required to contract with one or more eligible Medicaid RACs to review Medicaid claims for any overpayments or underpayments, and to recoup overpayments from providers on behalf of the state. In addition, federal laws, along with a growing number of state laws, allow a private person to bring a civil action in the name of the government for false billing violations. See Item 1. Business—“Government Regulation—Fraud and Abuse Provisions.” We believe that audits, inquiries and investigations from government agencies will occur from time to time in the ordinary course of our business, which could result in substantial costs to us and a diversion of management’s time and attention. We cannot predict whether any future audits, inquiries or investigations, or the public disclosure of such matters, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our common stock. See Item 1. Business—“Government Investigations.” The healthcare industry is highly regulated, and government authorities may determine that we have failed to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations. The healthcare industry and physicians’ medical practices, including the healthcare and other services that we and our affiliated physicians provide, are subject to extensive and complex federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations, compliance with which imposes substantial costs on us. Of particular importance are the provisions summarized as follows: • federal laws (including the federal False Claims Act) that prohibit entities and individuals from knowingly or recklessly making claims to Medicare, Medicaid and other government-funded programs that contain false or fraudulent information or from improperly retaining known overpayments; • a provision of the Social Security Act, commonly referred to as the “anti-kickback” statute, that prohibits the knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any bribe, kickback, rebate or other remuneration, in cash or in kind, in return for the referral or recommendation of patients for items and services covered, in whole or in part, by federal healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid; • a provision of the Social Security Act, commonly referred to as the Stark Law, that, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits physicians from referring Medicare patients to an entity for the provision of certain “designated health services” if the physician or a member of such physician’s immediate family has a direct or indirect financial relationship (including a compensation arrangement) with the entity; • similar state law provisions pertaining to anti-kickback, fee splitting, self-referral and false claims issues, which typically are not limited to relationships involving government-funded programs; • provisions of HIPAA that prohibit knowingly and willfully executing a scheme or artifice to defraud a healthcare benefit program or falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any material false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services; 29 Table of Contents • federal and state laws related to confidentiality, privacy and security of personal information, including medical information and records, that limit the manner in which we may use and disclose that information, impose obligations to safeguard information and require that we notify third parties in the event of a breach; • state laws that prohibit general business corporations from practicing medicine, controlling physicians’ medical decisions or engaging in certain practices, such as splitting fees with physicians; • federal and state laws governing participation in GHC Programs could result in denial of our application to become a participating provider, that could in turn cause us to not be able to treat patients covered by the applicable program or prohibit us from billing for the treatment services provided to such patients; • federal and state laws that prohibit providers from billing and receiving payment from Medicare and Medicaid for services unless the services are medically necessary, adequately and accurately documented and billed using codes that accurately reflect the type and level of services rendered; • federal and state laws pertaining to the provision of services by non-physician practitioners, such as advanced nurse practitioners, physician assistants and other clinical professionals, physician supervision of such services and reimbursement requirements that may be dependent on the manner in which the services are provided and documented; and • federal laws that impose civil administrative sanctions for, among other violations, inappropriate billing of services to federally funded healthcare programs, inappropriately reducing hospital care lengths of stay for such patients, or employing individuals who are excluded from participation in federally funded healthcare programs. In addition, we believe that our business will continue to be subject to increasing regulation, the scope and effect of which we cannot predict. See Item 1. Business—“Government Regulation.” We may in the future become the subject of regulatory or other investigations, audits or proceedings, and our interpretations of applicable laws, rules and regulations may be challenged. For example, regulatory authorities or other parties may assert that our arrangements with our affiliated professional contractors constitute fee splitting or the corporate practice of medicine and seek to invalidate these arrangements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our common stock. See Item 1. Business—“Government Regulation—Fee Splitting; Corporate Practice of Medicine.” Regulatory authorities or other parties also could assert that our relationships, including fee arrangements, among our affiliated professional contractors, hospital clients or referring physicians violate the anti-kickback, fee splitting or self-referral laws and regulations or that we have submitted false claims or otherwise failed to comply with government program reimbursement requirements. See Item 1. Business—“Government Regulation—Fraud and Abuse Provisions” and “—Government Reimbursement Requirements.” Such investigations, proceedings and challenges could result in substantial defense costs to us and a diversion of management’s time and attention. In addition, violations of these laws are punishable by monetary fines, civil and criminal penalties, exclusion from participation in GHC Programs, and forfeiture of amounts collected in violation of such laws and regulations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our common stock. 30 Table of Contents Federal and state laws that protect the privacy and security of personal information may increase our costs and limit our ability to collect and use that information and subject us to penalties if we are unable to fully comply with such laws. Numerous federal and state laws and regulations govern the collection, dissemination, use, security and confidentiality of personal information, including individually identifiable health information. These laws include: • Provisions of HIPAA that limit how healthcare providers and business associates may use and disclose PHI, provide certain rights to individuals with respect to that information and impose certain security requirements; • HITECH, which strengthens and expands the HIPAA Privacy Rule and Security Rules and imposes data breach notification obligations; • Other federal and state laws restricting the use and protecting the privacy and security of personal information, including health information, many of which are not preempted by HIPAA; • Federal and state consumer protection laws; and • Federal and state laws regulating the conduct of research with human subjects. As part of our business operations, including our medical record keeping, third-party billing, research and other services, we collect and maintain PHI in paper and electronic format. Standards related to health information, whether implemented pursuant to HIPAA, HITECH, state laws, congressional or state action or otherwise, could have a significant effect on the manner in which we handle personal information, including healthcare-related data, and communicate with payors, providers, patients and others, and compliance with these standards could impose significant costs on us or limit our ability to offer services, thereby negatively impacting the business opportunities available to us. If we do not comply with existing or new laws and regulations related to personal information we could be subject to remedies that include monetary fines, civil or administrative penalties, litigation, civil damage awards or criminal sanctions. Government authorities or other parties may assert that our business practices violate antitrust laws. The healthcare industry is subject to close antitrust scrutiny. The FTC, the DOJ and state Attorneys General all actively review and, in some cases, take enforcement action against business conduct and acquisitions in the healthcare industry. Private parties harmed by alleged anticompetitive conduct can also bring antitrust suits. Violations of antitrust laws may be punishable by substantial penalties, including significant monetary fines, civil penalties, criminal sanctions, and consent decrees and injunctions prohibiting certain activities or requiring divestiture or discontinuance of business operations. Any of these penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our affiliated physicians and third-party contractors may not appropriately record or document services that they provide. Our affiliated physicians are responsible for appropriately recording and documenting the services they provide. We use this information to seek reimbursement for their services from third-party payors. In addition, we utilize third-party contractors to perform certain revenue cycle management functions for medical providers, including medical coding. If our physicians and third-party contractors do not appropriately document, or where applicable, code for their services or our customers’ services, we could be subjected to administrative, regulatory, civil, or criminal investigations or sanctions and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. 31 Table of Contents We may not find suitable acquisition candidates or successfully integrate our acquisitions. Our acquisitions may expose us to greater business risks and could affect our payor mix. We have expanded and continue to seek to expand our presence in new and existing metropolitan areas by acquiring established neonatal, anesthesia care, maternal-fetal, pediatric cardiology and other complementary pediatric subspecialty physician group practices. In addition, both independently and in collaboration with our hospital partners, we may seek to expand into other specialties and subspecialties. Our acquisition strategy involves numerous risks and uncertainties, including: • We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or strategic opportunities or implement successfully or realize the expected benefits of any suitable opportunities. In addition, we compete for acquisitions with other potential acquirers, some of which may have greater financial or operational resources than we do. This competition may intensify due to the ongoing consolidation in the healthcare industry, which may increase our acquisition costs. • We may not be able to complete acquisitions of physician practices or we may complete acquisitions on less favorable terms as a result of higher tax rates on high-income individuals resulting from the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 or other potential changes to the tax code. Specifically, our acquisition candidates may require a higher purchase price to compensate them for any increased tax burden. • We may not be able to successfully integrate completed acquisitions, including our recent acquisitions. Integrating completed acquisitions into our existing operations involves numerous short-term and long-term risks, including diversion of our management’s attention, failure to retain key personnel, long-term value of acquired intangible assets and acquisition expenses. In addition, we may be required to comply with laws, rules and regulations that may differ from those of the states in which our operations are currently conducted. • We cannot be certain that any acquired business will continue to maintain its pre-acquisition revenue and growth rates or be financially successful. In addition, we cannot be certain of the extent of any unknown or contingent liabilities of any acquired business, including liabilities for failure to comply with applicable laws, or liabilities relating to medical malpractice claims. Generally we obtain indemnification agreements from the sellers of businesses acquired with respect to pre-closing acts, omissions and other similar risks. It is possible that we may seek to enforce indemnification provisions in the future against sellers who may no longer have the financial wherewithal to satisfy their obligations to us. Accordingly, we may incur material liabilities for past activities of acquired businesses. • We could incur or assume indebtedness and issue equity in connection with acquisitions. The issuance of shares of our common stock for an acquisition may result in dilution to our existing shareholders and, depending on the number of shares that we issue, the resale of such shares could affect the trading price of our common stock. • We may acquire businesses that derive a greater portion of their revenue from GHC Programs than what we recognize on a consolidated basis. These acquisitions could affect our overall payor mix in future periods. • Acquisitions of practices could entail financial and operating risks not fully anticipated. Such acquisitions could divert management’s attention and our resources. • An acquisition could be subject to a challenge under the antitrust laws either before or after it is consummated. Such a challenge could involve substantial legal costs and divert management’s attention and resources and could result in us having to abandon the transaction or make a divestiture. 32 Table of Contents We may not be able to successfully execute our same-unit and organic growth strategies. In addition to our acquisition growth strategy, we seek opportunities for increasing revenue from our existing hospital- and office-based operations through same-unit and organic growth strategies. We also seek opportunities to grow organically outside of our existing operations. We may not be able to successfully execute our same-unit and organic growth strategies for reasons including the following: • We may not be able to expand the services that our affiliated physicians provide to our hospital partners. • We may not be able to attract referrals to our office-based practices or neonatology transports to our hospital-based units. • We may not be able to execute new contractual arrangements with hospitals, including through joint ventures, where we either currently provide or do not currently provide physician services. • We may not be able to work with our hospital partners to develop integrated services programs for which we become a multi-specialty provider of solutions within the maternal-fetal, newborn, pediatric continuum of care. • We may not accurately project organic growth performance, potentially resulting in lower margins. In addition, certain of our organic growth strategies may involve risks and uncertainties similar to those for our acquisition strategy. See “We may not find suitable acquisition candidates or successfully integrate our acquisitions. Our acquisitions may expose us to greater business risks and could affect our payor mix.” We may not be able to maintain effective and efficient information systems or properly safeguard our information systems. Our operations are dependent on uninterrupted performance of our information systems. Failure to maintain reliable information systems, disruptions in our existing information systems or the implementation of new systems could cause disruptions in our business operations, including errors and delays in billings and collections, difficulty satisfying requirements under hospital contracts, disputes with patients and payors, violations of patient privacy and confidentiality requirements and other regulatory requirements, increased administrative expenses and other adverse consequences. In addition, information security risks have generally increased in recent years because of new technologies and the increased activities of perpetrators of cyber-attacks resulting in the theft of protected health, business or financial information. Outside parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees to take actions, including the release of confidential or sensitive information or to make fraudulent payments, through illegal electronic spamming, phishing or other tactics. A failure in or breach of our information systems as a result of cyber-attacks or other tactics could also disrupt our business, result in the release or misuse of confidential or proprietary information or financial loss, damage our reputation, increase our administrative expenses, and expose us to additional risk of liability to federal or state governments or individuals. Although we believe that we have robust information security procedures and other safeguards in place, which are monitored and routinely tested internally and by external parties, as cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to enhance our information security measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. Any of these disruptions or breaches of security could have a material adverse effect on our business, regulatory compliance, financial condition and results of operations. Our employees and business partners may not appropriately secure and protect confidential information in their possession. Each of our employees and business partners is responsible for the security of the information in our systems or under our control and to ensure that private and financial information is kept confidential. Should an 33 Table of Contents employee or business partner not follow appropriate security measures, including those related to cyber threats or attacks or other tactics, as well as our privacy and security policies and procedures, the improper release of personal information, including PHI, or confidential business or financial information, or misappropriation of assets could result. The release of such information or misappropriation of assets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, regulatory compliance, results of operations and cash flows. We may not be able to successfully recruit and retain qualified physicians and other clinicians. We are dependent upon our ability to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified physicians and other clinicians to service existing units at hospitals and our affiliated practices and expand our business. We compete with many types of healthcare providers, including teaching, research and government institutions, hospitals and health systems and other practice groups, for the services of qualified clinicians. We may not be able to continue to recruit new clinicians or renew contracts with existing clinicians on acceptable terms. If we do not do so, our ability to service existing or new hospital units and staff existing or new office-based practices could be adversely affected. A significant number of our affiliated physicians or other clinicians could leave our affiliated practices or our affiliated professional contractors may be unable to enforce the non-competition covenants of departed physicians. Our affiliated professional contractors usually enter into employment agreements with our affiliated physicians. Certain of our employment agreements can be terminated without cause by any party upon prior written notice. In addition, substantially all of our affiliated physicians have agreed not to compete within a specified geographic area for a certain period after termination of employment. The law governing non-compete agreements and other forms of restrictive covenants varies from state to state. Although we believe that the non-competition and other restrictive covenants applicable to our affiliated physicians are reasonable in scope and duration and therefore enforceable under applicable state law, courts and arbitrators in some states may be reluctant to enforce non-compete agreements and restrictive covenants against physicians. Our affiliated physicians or other clinicians may leave our affiliated practices for a variety of reasons, including to provide services for other types of healthcare providers, such as teaching, research and government institutions, hospitals and health systems and other practice groups. If a substantial number of our affiliated physicians or other clinicians leave our affiliated practices or our affiliated professional contractors are unable to enforce the non-competition covenants in the employment agreements, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially, adversely affected. We may be subject to medical malpractice and other lawsuits not covered by insurance. Our business entails an inherent risk of claims of medical malpractice against our affiliated physicians and us. We may also be subject to other lawsuits which may involve large claims and significant defense costs. Although we currently maintain liability insurance coverage intended to cover professional liability and other claims, there can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will be adequate to cover liabilities arising out of claims asserted against us where the outcomes of such claims are unfavorable to us. Generally, we self-insure our liabilities to pay retention amounts for professional liability matters through a wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary. Liabilities in excess of our insurance coverage, including coverage for professional liability and other claims, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our common stock. See Item 1. Business—“Other Legal Proceedings” and “Professional and General Liability Coverage.” The reserves that we have established in respect of our professional liability losses are subject to inherent uncertainties and if a deficiency is determined this may lead to a reduction in our net earnings. We have established reserves for losses and related expenses that represent estimates involving actuarial projections. These actuarial projections are developed at a given point in time and represent our expectations of 34 Table of Contents the ultimate resolution and administration of costs of losses incurred with respect to professional liability risks for the amount of risk retained by us. Insurance reserves are inherently subject to uncertainty. Our reserve estimates are based on actuarial valuations using historical claims, demographic factors, industry trends, severity and exposure factors and other actuarial assumptions. The estimates of projected ultimate losses are developed at least annually. Our reserves could be significantly affected should current and future occurrences differ from historical claim trends and expectations. While claims are monitored closely when estimating reserves, the complexity of the claims and wide range of potential outcomes often hamper timely adjustments to the assumptions used in these estimates. Actual losses and related expenses may deviate, perhaps substantially, from the reserve estimates reflected in our financial statements. If our estimated reserves are determined to be inadequate, we will be required to increase reserves at the time the deficiency is determined. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—“Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—Professional Liability Coverage.” We may write-off intangible assets, such as goodwill. The carrying value of our intangible assets, which consist primarily of goodwill related to our acquisitions, is subject to annual impairment testing. Under current accounting standards, goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis and we may be subject to impairment losses as circumstances change after an acquisition. If we record an impairment loss related to our goodwill, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the year in which the impairment is recorded. We may not effectively manage our growth. We have experienced significant growth in our business and the number of our employees and affiliated physicians in recent years which places significant demands on our financial, operational and management resources. Continued growth may impair our ability to provide our services efficiently and to manage our employees adequately. While we are taking steps to manage our growth, our future results of operations could be materially, adversely affected if we are unable to do so effectively. Our quarterly results will likely fluctuate from period to period. We have historically experienced and expect to continue to experience quarterly fluctuations in net revenue and net income. For example, we typically experience negative cash flow from operations in the first quarter of each year, principally as a result of bonus payments to affiliated physicians as well as discretionary matching contributions for participants in our qualified contributory savings plans (401(k) Plans). In addition, a significant number of our employees and associated professional contractors (primarily affiliated physicians) exceed the level of taxable wages for social security contributions during the first and second quarters. As a result, we incur a significantly higher payroll tax burden and our net income is lower during those quarters. Moreover, a lower number of calendar days are present in the first and second quarters of the year as compared to the remainder of the year. Because we provide services in the NICU on a 24-hours-a-day basis, 365 days a year, any reduction in service days will have a corresponding reduction in net revenue. In addition, any reduction in office days in our office-based practices or business days in our anesthesia practices will also have a corresponding reduction in net revenue. We also have significant fixed operating costs, including costs for our affiliated physicians, and as a result, are highly dependent on patient volume and capacity utilization of our affiliated physicians to sustain profitability. Quarterly results may also be impacted by the timing of acquisitions and any fluctuation in patient volume. As a result, our results of operations for any quarter are not indicative of results of operations for any future period or full fiscal year. Our variable rate debt exposes us to interest rate risk which could adversely affect our cash flows. The borrowings under our credit agreement bear interest at variable rates and expose us to interest rate risk. Other debt we incur also could be variable rate debt. If interest rates increase, our variable rate debt will create higher debt service requirements, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. 35 Table of Contents The value of our common stock may fluctuate. There has been significant volatility in the market price of securities of healthcare companies generally that we believe in many cases has been unrelated to operating performance. In addition, we believe that certain factors, such as actual and potential legislative and regulatory developments, including announced regulatory investigations, quarterly fluctuations in our actual or anticipated results of operations, lower revenue or earnings than those anticipated by securities analysts, not meeting publicly announced expectations, and general economic and financial market conditions, could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. We may not be able to collect reimbursements for our services from third-party payors in a timely manner. A significant portion of our net revenue is derived from reimbursements from various third-party payors, including GHC Programs, private insurance plans and managed care plans, for services provided by our affiliated professional contractors. We are responsible for submitting reimbursement requests to these payors and collecting the reimbursements, and we assume the financial risks relating to uncollectible and delayed reimbursements. In the current healthcare environment, payors continue their efforts to control expenditures for healthcare, including revisions to coverage and reimbursement policies. Due to the nature of our business and our participation in government-funded and private reimbursement programs, we are involved from time to time in inquiries, reviews, audits and investigations by governmental agencies and private payors of our business practices, including assessments of our compliance with coding, billing and documentation requirements. We may be required to repay these agencies or private payors if a finding is made that we were incorrectly reimbursed, or we may be subjected to pre-payment reviews, which can be time-consuming and result in non-payment or delayed payment for the services we provide. We may also experience difficulties in collecting reimbursements because third-party payors may seek to reduce or delay reimbursements to which we are entitled for services that our affiliated physicians have provided. In addition, GHC Programs may deny our application to become a participating provider that could cause us to not be able to provide services to patients or prohibit us from billing for such services. If we are not reimbursed fully and in a timely manner for such services or there is a finding that we were incorrectly reimbursed, our revenue, cash flows and financial condition could be materially, adversely affected. In addition, adverse economic conditions could affect the timeliness and amounts received from our third-party and government payors which would impact our short-term liquidity needs. Hospitals or other customers may terminate their agreements with us, our physicians may lose the ability to provide services in hospitals or administrative fees paid to us by hospitals may be reduced. Our net revenue is derived primarily from fee-for-service billings for patient care provided within hospital units by our affiliated physicians and from administrative fees paid to us by hospitals. See Item 1. Business—“Relationships with Our Partners—Hospitals.” Our hospital partners or other customers may cancel or not renew their contracts with us, reduce or eliminate our administrative fees in the future, or refuse to pay us our administrative fees if we fail to honor the terms of our agreement. Adverse economic conditions could influence future actions of our hospital partners or other customers. To the extent that our arrangements with our hospital partners or other customers are canceled, or are not renewed or replaced with other arrangements having at least as favorable terms, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, to the extent our affiliated physicians lose their privileges in hospitals or hospitals enter into arrangements with or employ other physicians, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially, adversely affected. Hospitals could limit our ability to use our management information systems in our units by requiring us to use their own management information systems. Our management information systems, including BabySteps® and Quantum Clinical Navigation Systems are used to support our day-to-day operations and ongoing clinical research and business analysis. If a hospital 36 Table of Contents prohibits us from using our own management information systems, it may interrupt the efficient operation of our information systems which, in turn, may limit our ability to operate important aspects of our business, including billing and reimbursement as well as research and education initiatives. This inability to use our management information systems at hospital locations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our industry is already competitive and could become more competitive. The healthcare industry is highly competitive and subject to continual changes in the methods by which services are provided and the manner in which healthcare providers are selected and compensated. Because our operations consist primarily of physician services provided within hospital-based units, we compete with other healthcare services companies and physician groups for contracts with hospitals to provide our services to patients. We also face competition from hospitals themselves to provide our services. Companies in other healthcare industry segments, some of which have greater financial and other resources than ours, may become competitors in providing neonatal, anesthesia, maternal-fetal or pediatric subspecialty care. Additionally, we face competition from healthcare-focused and other private equity firms. We may not be able to continue to compete effectively in this industry, additional competitors may enter metropolitan areas where we operate, and this increased competition may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Unfavorable changes or conditions could occur in the states where our operations are concentrated. A majority of our net revenue in 2014 was generated by our operations in five states. In particular, Texas accounted for approximately 24% of our net revenue in 2014. See Item 1. Business—“Geographic Coverage.” Adverse changes or conditions affecting these particular states, such as healthcare reforms, changes in laws and regulations, reduced Medicaid reimbursements and government investigations, economic conditions, weather conditions, and natural disasters may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are dependent upon our key management personnel for our future success. Our success depends to a significant extent on the continued contributions of our key management personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer, Roger J. Medel, M.D., for the management of our business and implementation of our business strategy. The loss of Dr. Medel or other key management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our common stock. Provisions of our articles and bylaws could deter takeover attempts. Our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock and to determine the powers, preferences and rights of these shares without shareholder approval. This preferred stock could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to those of the holders of common stock. The issuance of preferred stock under some circumstances could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control. In addition, provisions in our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws, including those relating to calling shareholder meetings, taking action by written consent and other matters, could render it more difficult or discourage an attempt to obtain control of MEDNAX through a proxy contest or consent solicitation. These provisions could limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay in the future for our shares of common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 37 Table of Contents 