RISK FACTORS The following discussion sets forth certain risks that the Company believes could cause its actual future results to differ materially from expected or historical results. However, the discussion below is not exhaustive, and other factors could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results. These factors include, among others, natural disasters, acts of terrorism and epidemics. The Company’s financial condition is dependent upon and could be adversely affected by the extent to which management can successfully manage interest rate risks. The majority of the Company’s earnings are generated from the spread between the Company’s interest earning assets (based on CP, the prime rate, or the 91-day Treasury Bill rate) and its funding costs (primarily based on LIBOR). The success of the Company is dependent upon management’s ability to identify properly and respond promptly to changes in interest rate conditions. Particularly in the current market environment, which has been characterized by dislocation, illiquidity and government intervention, changes in the interest rate environment can be difficult to predict and the Company’s ability to respond to changes after they occur is hampered by market constraints, legislation and the terms of the Company’s existing student loan assets. As a result, changes in the spread between the interest rates earned on the Company’s assets and incurred on the Company’s liabilities could have an adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Historically, CP and LIBOR rates have been highly correlated, with the average spread generally falling in the range of 10 – 12 basis points. Over the past year, the spread between these two indices has been highly volatile, particularly in the fourth quarter following the implementation of the CPFF. To the extent that CP falls significantly in relation to LIBOR, the Company’s net interest margin and the fair value of its residual interests will be adversely affected. See Results of Operations - Factors Affecting Net Interest Income - Net Interest Margin Spread Analysis on page 15 for further information about the CPFF program and its historical and potential impact on the Company’s net interest margin. Although the Department provided relief to student loan originators in the fourth quarter by altering the method for determining SAP, the Department has not indicated whether they would apply the same or any manner of modified approach for determining SAP over the remaining term of the CPFF or other periods of dislocation. If relief is not provided through the Department or other governmental entities and CP and LIBOR continue to diverge, the Company’s net interest margins will be adversely impacted, as will the value of its retained interests in securitized assets. The Company uses derivative instruments in an effort to manage certain of its interest rate risk. The Company’s derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS 133, and consequently, the change in fair value of these derivative instruments is included in the Company's earnings. Changes in market assumptions regarding future interest rates could significantly impact the valuation of the Company's derivative instruments and, accordingly, impact the Company’s financial position and results of operations. The Company's interest rate risk management activities could expose the Company to losses if future events differ from certain of the Company’s assumptions about the future regulatory and credit environment. If the Company’s economic hedging activities are not appropriately monitored or executed, these activities may not effectively mitigate its interest rate sensitivity or have the desired impact on its results of operations or financial condition. One of the Company’s objectives in determining the appropriate mix of funding is to match the weighted average life of its loan assets with that of its borrowings. However, market constraints and the fact that the Company cannot control the speed at which borrowers repay their loans generally make obtaining a perfect match very difficult and cost-prohibitive. In addition, credit spreads earned on the Company’s loan assets are fixed at the time of origination. As a result, the Company’s net interest margin may be adversely affected if the Company cannot refinance its maturing debt at rates that are comparable to its current rates. 38 The Company’s business operations are dependent upon Citigroup and any change that impacts Citigroup’s involvement in the Company could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and operations. Citigroup indirectly owns 80% of the Company’s common stock. Through various subsidiaries, Citigroup serves as the Company’s: · Lender – The Omnibus Credit Agreement provides funding up to $30.0 billion through December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2008, the Company had outstanding borrowings under this agreement of $22.8 billion. · Trustee – An affiliate of Citigroup acts as eligible lender trustee for the Company pursuant to a trust agreement since the Company does not meet the definition of an eligible lender in the Higher Education Act. · Originating Lender – The Company originates its private education loans through an agreement with an affiliate of Citigroup, under its authority as a federally chartered bank, providing certain benefits to which the Company would not otherwise be entitled. The Company subsequently acquires such loans pursuant to the terms of a separate agreement with the affiliate. · Service Provider – The majority of the work to originate and service the Company’s FFEL Program and private education loans is performed by an affiliate of Citigroup. Citigroup also provides many other services to the Company, including, but not limited to, cash management, tax return preparation, data processing, telecommunications, payroll processing and benefits administration. These arrangements provide economies of scale that significantly reduce the Company’s operating expenses. The Company has outsourced a significant portion of its overall operations to certain affiliates and third parties. The Company’s business operations could be adversely impacted if any of the existing agreements with these servicer providers was terminated or could not be renewed with substantially similar terms. In addition, the Company is subject to the risk that these providers may not continue to provide the level of service that is needed to effectively operate the Company’s business, including timely response to changes in the Company’s demand for services. If any of these risks were to be realized, and assuming similar agreements with service providers could not be established, the Company could experience interruptions in operations that could negatively impact the Company’s ability to meet customer demand for loan originations and disbursements, damage its relationships with customers, and reduce its market share, all of which could materially adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. In January 2009, Citigroup announced that it was realigning its structure into two distinct businesses: Citicorp, which will be comprised of Citigroup’s core businesses, and Citi Holdings, which will be comprised of non-core businesses. The Company will be included within Citi Holdings. The Company does not currently expect this organizational realignment to adversely affect the Company's business or its operations, but there can be no assurance that future decisions with respect to the Company as a non-core business will have no impact on the Company or its relationships and transactions with CBNA or its affiliates. 39 The Company funds its balance sheet through the Omnibus Credit Agreement, capital markets and government programs. During market disruptions, the Company’s ability to acquire funds may be limited and funding costs may vary significantly. The dislocation and illiquidity in the asset-backed securities and credit markets, since the latter half of 2007, have adversely impacted the Company’s securitization activities. To the extent that these market conditions continue, they are likely to have a further adverse impact on the Company’s ability to execute future securitization transactions. Current market conditions have eliminated gains on securitization transactions and losses may be recognized on future securitization transactions. These trends are also likely to negatively impact credit spreads on secured borrowings through on-balance sheet securitizations. In addition, the current economic downturn and the high level of volatility in the spread between the Company’s interest earning assets (based on CP, the prime rate, or the 91-day Treasury Bill rate) and its funding costs (primarily based on LIBOR) could have a material adverse effect on existing securitization trusts sponsored by the Company. If any of these trusts were to default on its obligations to noteholders, the Company’s ability to execute future securitization transactions would be adversely affected. In early 2008, adverse market conditions carried over to the market for student loan auction-rate notes. The Company’s outstanding securitizations include no auction-rate notes, but adversity in that market may nevertheless further impede the Company’s ability to securitize on favorable terms. Adverse market conditions have also significantly increased the credit spreads on the Omnibus Credit Agreement borrowings, which are negotiated on a borrowing-by-borrowing basis. The credit spreads of these borrowings are highly dependent on the cost of funds to CBNA, which is in turn dependent on CBNA’s own access to capital markets (through Citigroup), its ability to manage deposits and its other sources of liquidity and funding. These are, in turn, highly dependent on the credit ratings of Citigroup and CBNA. During November and December 2008, the short- and long-term debt ratings of Citigroup and CBNA were downgraded by each of Moody’s, Fitch and Standard & Poor’s. Further downgrades could have a negative impact on the availability or cost of funds to CBNA and consequently to the Company. Given the current market conditions, as future funding transactions are executed under the Omnibus Credit Agreement, funding costs are expected to rise further. Incremental borrowing rates under the Omnibus Credit Agreement currently exceed borrowing rates realized in the Company’s most recent securitization transactions. The Company is currently negotiating a new agreement to replace the existing agreement with CBNA, which expires on December 31, 2009. If the agreement is not extended or replaced by that date, the borrowings outstanding at that date would continue to mature based on their originally contracted maturities. In addition, the company would no longer have a guaranteed funding source for new borrowings, which could negatively impact the ability to fund future disbursements. As an alternate source of funding, the Company recently began utilizing the Department’s Participation Program and expects to take part in the Purchase Program in 2009. These programs are only approved through the 2009-2010 academic year. After that the Company may need to identify other alternative sources of funding, which may not be available on favorable pricing or terms, if at all. In addition, the Company expects to utilize the ABCP Conduit to fund a significant portion if its assets. Funding for the ABCP Conduit will be provided by the capital markets. In the event the commercial paper issued by the Conduit Program cannot be reissued or “rolled” at maturity and the ABCP Conduit does not have sufficient cash to repay investors, the Department has committed to provide liquidity to the ABCP Conduit by entering into forward purchase agreements to purchase the eligible student loans backing the ABCP Conduit at a predetermined price. A sale of loans to the Department at this price would likely result in a loss and have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Failure to secure cost-effective funding alternatives would adversely impact the Company’s ability to fund student loan originations and could materially increase the Company’s cost of funds. 40 The Company’s profitability could be adversely affected by general economic conditions as well as regional economic trends. Factors that could significantly affect profitability include: · The demand for and net margins on student loans; · The cost to the Company of funding such loans; · The level and volatility of interest rates and inflation: and · The number of borrowers who are unable to meet their payment obligations. Rising interest rates could reduce demand for student loans, as some prospective borrowers could defer attendance at certain eligible educational institutions or pursue programs at less costly institutions, and thus borrow less, or otherwise determine that the cost of borrowing for higher education is too great. During periods of economic weakness, particularly in the case of high unemployment or high inflation, the relative cost of higher education may increase materially. As a result, some prospective borrowers may defer pursuing higher education until economic conditions improve. Also, the ability of some borrowers to repay their loans on a timely basis may deteriorate, resulting in higher delinquencies and losses. To the extent that weakness in the U.S. economy continues or worsens, the Company may experience an increase in defaults and loan losses and, if the conditions persist for an extended period of time, the Company may exceed contractual maximum portfolio loss limits related to the insurance on its private education loan portfolio. Any of these conditions may be more prevalent in those particular regions of the United States that have been affected by natural disasters or regional economic downturns. If the regions affected were those in which a large segment of the Company’s loans had been originated or its borrowers reside, a disproportionate reduction in new loan originations could occur, accompanied by higher delinquencies and losses. The Company has a high concentration of student loan originations in New York and California, and as such, has a proportionately greater exposure to economic disruptions in these states. The Company’s financial condition is dependent upon and could be adversely affected by the extent to which management can successfully manage credit risks. The Company’s credit risk exposure has been partially mitigated through government guarantees, third-party insurers, and certain school risk-sharing agreements. The Company actively monitors the creditworthiness of its insurers, but in the event that a guarantor, third-party insurer or risk-share school is unable to meet its contractual obligations under the related arrangements, the Company’s financial condition could be adversely affected. On September 16, 2008, the Federal Reserve announced that it had authorized the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to lend up to $85.0 billion to AIG to prevent a disorderly failure of AIG. According to the Federal Reserve, the loan is intended to facilitate a process under which AIG can sell certain of its businesses in an orderly manner, with the least possible disruption to the overall economy. Subsequently, AIG announced additional financing arrangements through the Federal Reserve that could provide additional liquidity. AIG announced that it plans to sell lines of business, which do not include UGCIC and NHIC. Most recently, AIG announced they are continuing to work with the U.S. Government to evaluate potential new alternatives for addressing AIG's financial challenges. Claim payments are being made on a regular basis. Any failure of AIG, or sale of UGCIC/NHIC, could have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations as it relates to the Company’s UGCIC/NHIC insured loan portfolio. 41 From April 1997 to 2002, the Company purchased private insurance from RSAUSA. RSAUSA decided to exit the U.S. market and sold RSAUSA in 2007 to Arrowpoint, a company owned and operated by their management and independent directors. Arrowpoint is being operated in a voluntary run-off mode with the objective of successfully meeting policyholder obligations and achieving a solvent run-off. As part of the purchase, Arrowpoint agreed to certain operating restrictions and the appointment of a claims monitor to protect policy holders. Arrowood is making claim payments on a regular basis. Neither Arrowpoint nor Arrowood is rated. Any failure of either could have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations as it relates to the Company’s Arrowood insured loan portfolio. Due to recent regulatory changes and dislocation in the credit markets, several student lenders as well as the Company have announced that they are exiting the industry or, as in the case of the Company, discontinuing certain higher-risk segments of their business. This decrease in the availability of student loans may adversely impact the financial condition of certain schools with which the Company does business, particularly proprietary schools. The Company’s results could be adversely impacted to the extent that the proprietary schools for which it originates loans do not continue as going concerns or close individual campus locations. If a school with which the Company does business closes or otherwise does not provide the borrower the promised education, borrower may raise claims and defenses against the Company As a result, the Company may not be able to collect on these loans. In addition, school closings could result in an increase in defaults for the borrowers attending these schools at the time they close and a significant increase in school closings could materially increase the Company’s allowance for loan losses. The Company’s credit risk exposure is also impacted by the size and performance of the Uninsured Standard and Uninsured Custom loan portfolios that are not originated under a risk-sharing relationship, which has grown over recent years. As of December 31, 2008, the uninsured private education loan portfolio included $186.7 million of higher risk loans made to students attending proprietary schools. Most of these higher risk loans do not follow the Company’s traditional underwriting process. In response to the economic environment, underwriting criteria has been refined. As the economy continues to contract, the Company’s financial condition could be adversely impacted by net credit losses on this portfolio. The Company’s financial condition could also be impacted by higher losses in the FFEL Program and insured private education loan portfolios due to adverse economic conditions. Incorrect estimates or assumptions made by management in the preparation of the Company’s consolidated financial statements could adversely affect the Company’s reported amounts of assets, liabilities or earnings. The Company’s earnings are increasingly dependent upon the accuracy of its critical accounting estimates, particularly those relating to loan securitizations and the allowance for loan losses. If future conditions deviate from management’s assumptions, certain related balance sheet and/or income statement line items could be negatively impacted. The net cash flow the Company receives from securitized student loan trusts generally represent the excess amounts, if any, generated by the underlying student loans over the amounts required to be paid to the note holders, after deducting servicing costs and any other expenses. The Company’s rights to these residual interests are subordinate to the note holders’ interests and their value is determined using a discounted cash flow model as there is no active market for these types of securities. The discounted cash flow model is highly sensitive to factors such as interest rate changes, prepayment speeds, default rates and regulatory changes. If the securitized loans fail to generate sufficient excess cash flows, the Company may not realize all of the recorded value of these interests. 42 The Company’s allowance for loan losses is also dependent on estimates. These estimates are based on historical experience, adjusted for qualitative factors including changes in recent performance, general economic conditions or applicable laws and regulations. If actual experience varies significantly from historical experience or the Company’s projections of the impact of changes in qualitative factors are inaccurate, the Company’s estimated allowance for loan losses may be insufficient to cover losses inherent in the Company’s portfolio. The Company’s financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected by regulatory and legislative actions. The Company’s business and earnings are affected by the fiscal policies adopted by regulatory authorities of the United States. For example, policies of the Federal Reserve Board directly influence the rate of interest paid by commercial banks, including CBNA, the Company’s primary funding source, on its interest-bearing deposits. This may affect the Company’s cost of borrowing from CBNA, and also may affect the value of financial instruments, including retained interests in securitizations and assets held for sale by the Company. In addition, such changes in fiscal policy may adversely affect the ability of the Company’s borrowers to repay their loans on a timely basis and the ability of prospective borrowers to qualify for loans. As a leading originator and owner of student loans insured under the Higher Education Act, the Company’s financial results and business are largely affected by the provisions of the Higher Education Act. Amendments to the Higher Education Act may be implemented from time to time. New legislation could impact the Company’s products, its industry or otherwise affect its operations and the environment in which it operates in substantial and unpredictable ways. In recent years, many changes to the Higher Education Act have been implemented that adversely impact the operating environment of the Company and its financial results. Certain amendments to the Higher Education Act governing the FFEL Program have reduced the interest spread earned by holders of FFEL Program guaranteed student loans. The Company is also subject to rules and regulations of the agencies that act as guarantors of the student loans, known as guaranty agencies. In addition, the Company is subject to certain federal and state banking laws, regulations, and examinations, as well as federal and state consumer protection laws and lending regulations, including, specifically with respect to the Company's CitiAssist loan portfolio, certain state usury laws and related regulations, and many other lending laws. These laws and regulations impose substantial requirements upon lenders and servicers involved in consumer finance. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in liability to borrowers, the imposition of civil penalties and potential class action lawsuits. On February 26, 2009, President Obama released a summary of his 2010 proposed budget initiatives, “A New Era of Responsibility”. The President’s proposal asks the Congress to end government support for financial institutions which make student loans. The details around the fiscal 2010 budget will not be available until April of 2009 and are subject to approval of the U.S. Congress. If the President’s proposal is adopted, it may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. It is difficult for the Company to plan for or mitigate the effects of such legislative or regulatory changes. For further information on the impact of the recent legislative activities, see Legislation and Regulations on page 25. Future regulatory changes cannot be predicted and could have a material impact on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. Future decreases in the volume of student loan originations could adversely affect the financial condition of the Company. Loan origination volume generated by individual schools is primarily dependent on whether the Company appears on the school’s list of lenders, as well as the number of students at that school that need financial aid. Origination volume could be negatively affected by the Company’s determination to suspend lending to certain schools as well as its temporary withdrawal from the consolidation loan market, although the Company may experience some growth in the markets in which it continues to operate as competitors exit these segments. The Company may be adversely impacted by borrowers’ or schools’ decisions to use competing lenders, each school’s option to choose the Federal Direct Lending Program instead of choosing to participate in the FFEL Program, or a school’s decision to begin making student loans itself. 43 The Company’s ability to maintain or increase market share is largely dependent upon its ability to offer competitively priced, desirable loan products as well as its ability to communicate effectively to prospective borrowers and schools about these products. The Company plans to continue to offer competitively priced products by managing its expenses through economies of scale, which reduce its origination and servicing costs. The Company also plans to expand its electronic communications with prospective borrowers and those that affect their decision making. An inability to achieve these goals could adversely affect the Company’s competitive position in the marketplace. Servicing defects in the Company’s loan portfolio could potentially result in losses. FFEL Program loans that are not originated and serviced in accordance with Department regulations risk loss of guarantee or interest penalties. Non-compliance with Department regulations can also result in the limitation, suspension or termination of the Company from the FFEL Program. Private education loans that are not originated and serviced in accordance with provisions set forth in the respective agreements with private insurers risk cancellation of insurance coverage. In an effort to manage these risks, the Company conducts compliance and process reviews of both the Company’s internal operations and external loan servicers. Servicing failures may have an adverse effect on the Company’s loan losses and, for FFEL Program loans, interest income. Other risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people or systems, or from external events may have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition. The Company is subject to many types of operating risks which include, but are not limited to, risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people or systems, or from external events. These operational risks encompass reputational and franchise elements associated with the Company’s business practices or market conduct. They also include the risk of failing to comply with applicable laws, regulations, regulatory administrative actions or the Company’s internal policies. Given the high volume of transactions at the Company, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and rectified. In addition, the Company’s necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process its transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical system flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. The Company may also be subject to disruptions of its operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond its control (for example, natural disasters, acts of terrorism, epidemics, computer viruses, and electrical/ telecommunications outages), which may give rise to losses in service to borrowers and/or monetary loss to the Company, increasing operating expenses and adversely affecting the Company’s competitive position. All of these risks are also applicable where the Company relies on outside vendors to provide services to it and its borrowers. In the normal course of business the Company is exposed to various legal risks that could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business operations. Various issues may give rise to legal risk and cause harm to the Company and its business prospects. These issues include appropriately dealing with potential conflicts of interest, legal and regulatory requirements, ethical issues, privacy laws and information security policies. Failure to address these issues appropriately could also give rise litigation claims against the Company, or subject the Company to regulatory enforcement actions, fines and penalties. 44 The CCRA Act and increased funding costs have decreased the profitability of FFEL Program loans. The Company has changed its strategic focus in an effort to address these changes, but there can be no assurance that the Company’s efforts will be successful. The CCRA Act reduced SAP for new originations by 55 basis points for Stafford and Consolidation Loans and 85 basis points for PLUS Loans. In addition, it reduced lender reinsurance from 99% to 97% by eliminating the EP program with a further reduction to 95% for loans originated on or after October 1, 2012, and increased the lender fee from 0.50% to 1.00% for new originations. At the same time, dislocation and illiquidity in the credit markets have significantly increased credit spreads on the Company’s new securitization transactions and borrowings under the Omnibus Credit Agreement. The confluence of these events has made FFEL Program lending less profitable. In response to these events, the Company has: · Suspended lending at certain schools where loans with lower balances and shorter interest-earning periods currently result in unsatisfactory returns; · Temporarily withdrawn from the consolidation loan markets; · Reduced certain borrower incentive programs for new originations; and · Restructured various functional areas of its business and eliminated a total of 215 positions. If these actions or any future actions that the Company may undertake in an effort to address these events are not successful, the Company’s future profitability may be adversely affected. The Company’s amended Non-Competition Agreement with CBNA and Citigroup provides fewer protections to the Company and may result in competition between the Company and its majority shareholder or other Citigroup affiliates. Effective August 8, 2008, the Company has amended the Non-Competition Agreement among the Company, CBNA and Citigroup. That amendment allows CBNA or any of its affiliates to acquire another business engaged in student lending. If the revenues from student lending represent more than 5% of the consolidated revenues of the acquired business, then CBNA or its affiliates are required to cease student lending or use commercially reasonable efforts to sell the acquired student lending business (which sale may be made to the Company) within eight months of the acquisition. If, however, student lending represents 5% or less of the consolidated revenues of the acquired business or if after using commercially reasonable efforts, CBNA or its affiliates are unable to sell the competing business at a price equal to or greater than the implied price, then CBNA or its affiliates may continue to engage in the competing business. Consequently, the Company may face direct competition from its majority shareholder or other Citigroup affiliates, which could have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. 45 Corporate Governance and Controls The Company has a Code of Conduct that expresses the values that drive employee behavior and maintains the Company’s commitment to the highest standards of conduct. In addition, the Company adopted a Code of Ethics for Financial Professionals which applies to all finance, accounting, treasury, tax and investor relations professionals and which supplements the companywide Code of Conduct. Both the Code of Conduct and the Code of Ethics for Financial Professionals can be found on the Company’s website at www.studentloan.com by clicking on the “Investors” link and then clicking on the “Board and Management” link. The Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines and the charter for both the Audit Committee and Compensation Committee are available free of charge on the website or by writing to The Student Loan Corporation, Investor Relations, 750 Washington Boulevard, Stamford, CT 06901. Controls and Procedures Disclosure The Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is accumulated and communicated to management, including the chief executive officer and chief financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. The Company has established a Disclosure Committee which has responsibility for ensuring that there is an adequate and effective process for establishing, maintaining, and evaluating disclosure controls and procedures for the Company in connection with its external disclosures. The Company's management, with the participation of the Company’s chief executive officer and chief financial officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the Company's disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act)) as of December 31, 2008. Based on that evaluation, the Company’s chief executive officer and chief financial officer have concluded that, at that date, the Company's disclosure controls and procedures were effective. Internal Control Over Financial Reporting There have not been any changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) during the quarter ended December 31, 2008 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. 46 MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING The management of the Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed under the supervision of the Company’s principal executive and principal financial officers, and effected by the Company’s board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. This process includes those policies and procedures that: · Pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company; · Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with proper authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and · Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect all misstatements. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk (i) that controls may become inadequate because of changes in condition, or (ii) that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. The Company’s management assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. In making this assessment, the Company’s management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control-Integrated Framework. Based on their assessment, management believes that, as of December 31, 2008, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria. The effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting has been audited by KPMG LLP, the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their reports on pages 48 and 49, which expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. 47 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM – INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING The Board of Directors and Stockholders The Student Loan Corporation: We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of The Student Loan Corporation and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. In our opinion, The Student Loan Corporation and subsidiaries maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of the Company as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2008, and our report dated February 27, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. KPMG LLP New York, New York February 27, 2009 48 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM – CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Board of Directors and Stockholders The Student Loan Corporation: We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of The Student Loan Corporation and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2008. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of The Student Loan Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2008, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, in 2007 the Company changed its methods of accounting for fair value measurements, the fair value option for financial assets and financial liabilities, and uncertainty in income taxes. We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated February 27, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. KPMG LLP New York, New York February 27, 2009 49 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Student Loan Corporation and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) Years ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 NET INTEREST INCOME Interest income $ 1,215,412 $ 1,563,811 $ 1,624,563 Interest expense to principal stockholder (Notes 6, 10 and 13) (884,113 ) (1,175,164 ) (1,213,033 ) Net interest income 331,299 388,647 411,530 Provision for loan losses (Note 4) (140,895 ) (59,920 ) (26,170 ) Net interest income after provision for loan losses 190,404 328,727 385,360 OTHER INCOME Gains on loans securitized (Note 15) 1,262 70,814 189,017 Gains on loans sold 2,532 41,044 26,813 Fee and other income (Note 8) 101,197 36,301 28,861 Total other income 104,991 148,159 244,691 OPERATING EXPENSES Salaries and employee benefits (Notes 10 and 11) 48,573 61,628 56,930 Restructuring and related charges 12,389 735 – Other expenses (Notes 9 and 10) 118,913 117,155 108,829 Total operating expenses 179,875 179,518 165,759 Income before income taxes and extraordinary item 115,520 297,368 464,292 Provision for income taxes (Note 12) 40,714 114,677 177,480 NET INCOME $ 74,806 $ 182,691 $ 286,812 BASIC AND DILUTED EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE Based on 20,000,000 shares outstanding (Note 1) $ 3.74 $ 9.13 $ 14.34 DIVIDENDS DECLARED AND PAID PER COMMON SHARE $ 5.72 $ 5.59 $ 4.98 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 50 The Student Loan Corporation and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS December 31, (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 2008 2007 ASSETS Federally insured student loans (Note 4) $ 18,064,662 $ 16,244,273 Private education loans (Note 4) 5,861,545 4,696,337 Deferred origination and premium costs (Note 4) 635,449 668,082 Allowance for loan losses (Note 4) (110,329 ) (42,115 ) Student loans, net 24,451,327 21,566,577 Other loans and lines of credit (Note 4) 9,016 87,437 Loans held for sale (Note 1and 4) 1,072,316 337,790 Cash 595 25 Residual interests in securitized loans (Note 15) 942,807 633,074 Other assets (Note 5) 1,659,617 1,154,956 Total Assets $ 28,135,678 $ 23,779,859 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Liabilities Short-term borrowings, payable to principal stockholder (Note 6) $ 12,654,200 $ 13,373,000 Short-term secured borrowings, payable to Department of Education (Note 6) 1,002,211 – Long-term borrowings, payable to principal stockholder (Note 6) 10,102,000 8,100,000 Long-term secured borrowings (Note 6) 1,727,744 – Deferred income taxes (Note 12) 241,642 287,462 Other liabilities (Note 7) 822,884 395,174 Total liabilities 26,550,681 22,155,636 Stockholders’ Equity Preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share; authorized 10,000,000 shares; no shares issued or outstanding – – Common stock, par value $0.01 per share; authorized 50,000,000 shares; 20,000,000 shares issued and outstanding 200 200 Additional paid-in capital 141,723 141,355 Retained earnings 1,443,074 1,482,668 Total stockholders’ equity 1,584,997 1,624,223 Total Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity $ 28,135,678 $ 23,779,859 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 51 The Student Loan Corporation and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Years ended December 31, (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 2008 2007 2006 COMMON STOCK AND ADDITIONAL PAID-IN CAPITAL Balance, beginning of period $ 141,555 $ 141,524 $ 139,583 Capital contributions and other changes 368 31 1,941 Balance, end of period $ 141,923 $ 141,555 $ 141,524 RETAINED EARNINGS Balance, beginning of period $ 1,482,668 $ 1,410,968 $ 1,222,262 Net income 74,806 182,691 286,812 Cumulative effect of adoption of accounting standard, net of taxes of $506 and $941 in 2007 and 2006, respectively – 809 1,494 Common dividends declared, $5.72, $5.59 and $4.98 per common share in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively (114,400 ) (111,800 ) (99,600 ) Balance, end of period $ 1,443,074 $ 1,482,668 $ 1,410,968 ACCUMULATED OTHER CHANGES IN EQUITY FROM NONOWNER SOURCES Balance, beginning of period $ – $ 809 $ – Net change in unrealized gains on investment securities, net of taxes of $(506) and $506 in 2007 and 2006, respectively (Note 1) – (809 ) 809 Balance, end of period $ – $ – $ 809 TOTAL STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY $ 1,584,997 $ 1,624,223 $ 1,553,301 SUMMARY OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FROM NONOWNER SOURCES Net income $ 74,806 $ 182,691 $ 286,812 Changes in equity from nonowner sources, net of taxes – – 809 Total changes in equity from nonowner sources $ 74,806 $ 182,691 $ 287,621 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 52 The Student Loan Corporation and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS Years ended December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2008 2007 2006 Cash flows from operating activities: Net income $ 74,806 $ 182,691 $ 286,812 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash from operating activities: Depreciation and amortization of equipment and computer software 12,285 14,429 13,658 Amortization of deferred loan origination and purchase costs 96,700 109,728 145,792 Accreted interest on residual interests (65,510 ) (59,177 ) (24,352 ) Provision for loan losses 140,895 59,920 26,170 Restructuring and related charges 12,389 735 – Deferred tax benefit (45,820 ) (179 ) (3,649 ) Gains on loans sold and securitized (3,794 ) (111,858 ) (215,830 ) (Gain) loss on residual interest valuation (326,039 ) (2,733 ) 15,391 (Gain) loss on servicing asset valuation (9,021 ) 15,668 13,287 Change in loans held for sale including loan origination and purchase costs (718,606 ) (300,198 ) (902,618 ) Proceeds from loans sold and securitized 141,075 232,305 876,263 Cash received on residual interests in trading securitized assets 138,681 65,388 17,095 Change in accrued interest receivable (55,097 ) (187,984 ) (52,008 ) Other non-cash charges 15,962 – – Change in other assets (337,009 ) (135,703 ) (12,325 ) Change in other liabilities 416,306 (64,392 ) 105,893 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities (511,797 ) (181,360 ) 289,579 Cash flows from investing activities: Change in loans (5,200,753 ) (5,084,958 ) (3,903,506 ) Change in loan origination and purchase costs (120,259 ) (232,674 ) (257,919 ) Proceeds from loans sold and securitized 1,973,207 4,474,616 7,622,265 Cash received on residual interests classified as available-for-sale assets – – 7,749 Change in restricted cash (47,615 ) – – Capital expenditures on equipment and computer software (8,646 ) (6,569 ) (8,850 ) Net cash used in investing activities (3,404,066 ) (849,585 ) 3,459,739 Cash flows from financing activities: Net change in borrowings with original maturities of one year or less 3,444,200 (1,963,800 ) (144,300 ) Proceeds from borrowings with original terms of one year or more 6,239,000 7,100,000 – Net proceeds from issuance of secured borrowings - Department of Education 1,002,211 – – Net proceeds from issuance of secured borrowings 1,843,620 – – Repayments of secured borrowings (98,198 ) – – Repayments of borrowings with original terms of one year or more (8,400,000 ) (4,000,000 ) (3,500,000 ) Dividends paid to stockholders (114,400 ) (111,800 ) (99,600 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 3,916,433 1,024,400 (3,743,900 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash 570 (6,545 ) 5,418 Cash - beginning of period 25 6,570 1,152 Cash - end of period $ 595 $ 25 $ 6,570 Supplemental disclosure: Cash paid for: Interest $ 905,666 $ 1,168,513 $ 1,220,339 Income taxes, net $ 52,779 $ 176,049 $ 125,237 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 53 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Background The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements of The Student Loan Corporation (the Company), a Delaware corporation, include the accounts of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiary, SLC Student Loan Receivables I, Inc. Educational Loan Center, Inc., a former subsidiary of the Company, was dissolved on June 30, 2008. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. The Company, through a trust agreement to originate loans through Citibank, N.A. (CBNA), is an originator, manager and servicer of student loans, including loans made in accordance with federally sponsored guaranteed student loan programs as well as private education loans. CBNA owns 80% of the Company’s outstanding common stock and is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Citigroup Inc. (Citigroup). The Company has revised its financial results for the year ended December 31, 2008 from the results released in the Company’s January 23, 2009 Earnings Release and Current Report on Form 8-K. The revision reflects the recognition of a liability related to the 2007 federal income tax. This amounted to a $1.4 million increase in Provision for income taxes and a $0.07 decrease in basic and diluted earnings per common share. Basis of Presentation The Company’s accounting policies are in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The Company’s operations are a single segment for financial reporting purposes, as the Company’s only operations consist of originating, managing and servicing student loans. Certain amounts in the prior years’ financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation. Such reclassification had no effect on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as previously reported. Use of Estimates The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with GAAP requires the Company to make estimates based on assumptions about current and future economic and market conditions (including, but not limited to, credit risk, market liquidity and interest rates) which affect reported amounts and related disclosures in the Company’s financial statements. Although current estimates reflect existing conditions and expected trends, as appropriate, it is reasonably possible that actual conditions in 2009 could differ from those estimates. Such differences could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. Among other effects, such changes could result in increases in the allowance for loan losses and decreases in the fair value of retained interests from securitizations. Revenue Recognition Revenues, which include net interest income, fees and gains on loans sold and securitized, if any, are recognized as they are earned. Interest income includes special allowance payments (SAP) from and excess interest payments to the federal government as prescribed under the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended (the Higher Education Act), and is net of amortization of premiums and origination costs. The Company accounts for premiums and origination costs in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 91, Accounting for Nonrefundable Fees and Costs Associated with Originating or Acquiring Loans and Initial Direct Costs of Leases (SFAS 91). Deferred premiums and origination costs on the Company’s loan portfolio are amortized using the interest method and recognized as yield adjustments to interest income. 54 Loans The Company has a portfolio of student loans originated under the Federal Family Education Loan (FFEL) Program authorized by the U.S. Department of Education (the Department) under the Higher Education Act, which are insured by guaranty agencies (guarantors). Student loan interest, inclusive of SAP from and excess interest payments to the federal government, if any, is recognized as it is earned or incurred and are recognized as yield adjustments to interest income. The Company also has a portfolio of private education loans primarily consisting of CitiAssist® loans. Some of those loans are insured against loss by private insurers or covered under other risk-sharing agreements with creditworthy schools. Some of those loans, including many higher risk loans, are neither insured nor covered under risk-sharing agreements. The Company is exposed to 100% of loss on such loans. Effective January 1, 2008, the Company elected to stop insuring new CitiAssist loan originations. Allowance for Loan Losses The Company has an allowance for loan losses that provides a reserve for estimated losses on: (1) the portion of the FFEL Program loan portfolio that is subject to the risk-sharing provisions of the Higher Education Act and (2) the private education loan portfolio, after considering the credit risk insurance coverage obtained from third parties, the impact of any risk-sharing agreements with certain schools and counterparty risk ratings. Estimated losses are based on historical delinquency and credit loss experience adjusted for expected market conditions and aging of the portfolio. Estimated losses that are probable and estimable are expensed currently and increase the provision for loan losses. Actual losses are charged against the reserve as they occur, and subsequent recoveries are credited back to the reserve. The Company ceases to accrue interest income on a student loan when one of the following events occurs: (1) a FFEL Program loan loses its guarantee, (2) an insured private education loan reaches 150 days of delinquency or (3) an uninsured private education loan reaches 90 days of delinquency. Accrual of interest is resumed if the loan guarantee is reinstated. Interest received on non-accruing loans is recorded directly into interest income. The Company immediately writes off the loan balance corresponding to the unguaranteed portion of FFEL Program loans at the end of the month in which the loan is at least 270 days delinquency and the uninsured portion of private education loans at the end of the month in which the loan is at least 120 days of delinquency. Also, the Company writes off the loan balances for loans in which the guarantee claim is not received for FFEL Program and private education loans after 450 days and 240 days of delinquency, respectively. When loans or portions of loans are written off, the Company reduces interest income by the amounts of accrued, uncollected interest and unamortized deferred premiums and origination costs. Restricted Cash Restricted cash represents amounts related to the Company’s secured borrowings. This cash must be used to make payments related to the secured borrowings and is classified as a component of Other assets. Amounts on deposit in these accounts represent reserve accounts or are the result of timing differences between when principal and interest is collected on the trust assets and when principal and interest is paid on trust liabilities. 55 Transfer of Student Loans through Sale or Securitization Whole Loan Sales The Company accounts for its whole loan sales in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities, a replacement of FASB Statement No. 125, as amended (SFAS 140). In order for a transfer of financial assets to be considered a sale, the assets transferred by the Company must have been isolated from the seller, even in bankruptcy or other receivership, and the purchaser must have the right to sell the assets transferred. In addition, the sale accounting rules of SFAS 140 require the Company to relinquish effective control over the loans sold as of the sale date. Loans Securitized There are two key accounting determinations that must be made relating to securitizations. First, a determination must be made as to whether the transfer is considered a sale in accordance with SFAS 140. If it is a sale, the transferred assets are removed from the Company's consolidated balance sheet with a gain or loss recognized. Second, a determination must be made as to whether the securitization entity should be included in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. If the securitization entity's activities are sufficiently restricted to meet accounting requirements for a qualifying special purpose entity (QSPE), the securitization entity is not consolidated by the seller of transferred assets. All of the Company’s off-balance sheet securitization entities meet the definition of a QSPE and are not consolidated. See Note 2 for proposed accounting changes which could change how the Company accounts for its off-balance sheet securitization entities. The Company accounts for its on-balance sheet securitization entity as a secured borrowing as it did not qualify as a QSPE in accordance with SFAS 140 and therefore is consolidated in the Company’s financial statements.Gains and losses are recognized at the time of securitization and are reported in Gains on loans securitized. Securitization gains and losses represent the difference between the cost basis of the assets sold and the fair value of the assets received, including, as applicable, cash, residual interests, servicing assets and retained notes. The Company estimates the fair value of the residual interests and servicing assets using an income approach by determining the present value of expected future cash flows using modeling techniques that incorporate management's best estimates of key assumptions, including prepayment speeds, credit losses, borrower benefits and discount rates. The Company retains interests in the securitized loans in the form of subordinated residual interests (i.e., interest-only strips), servicing rights and, in certain cases, subordinated notes issued by the trusts (collectively, retained interests). Residual interests and servicing rights are recorded at fair value in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (SFAS 159) and SFAS No. 156, Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets – an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140 (SFAS 156), respectively. Retained notes are also recorded at fair value in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities. Unrealized gains and losses on retained interests are reported in Fee and other income. Accreted interest on residual interests is reported in Interest income. The Company early adopted SFAS 159 on January 1, 2007. Upon adoption, the Company elected to account for its residual interest from the 2004 securitization, which was classified as an available-for-sale security, at fair value. As a result, the Company reclassified $0.8 million in unrealized gains net of tax from Accumulated other changes in equity from nonowner sources to Retained earnings. 56 Cash is received from the trusts for servicing fee revenues, residual interest distributions and payments of principal and interest on retained notes. The Company’s on-balance sheet securitization transactions are collateralized by student loans, which are recorded in Federally insured student loans, and accrued interest on the student loans and certain cash accounts, which are recorded in Other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Additional information on the Company's securitization activities may be found in Note 15. Loans Held for Sale Loans held for sale are loans that the Company plans to include in a future securitization or sale transaction including those loans that will be sold to the Department under the Department’s Loan Participation Purchase Program (the Participation Program) and under the Loan Purchase Commitment Program (the Purchase Program). Management continually assesses its future securitization and loan sale plans and transfers sufficient amounts of loans to the held for sale portfolio to meet the Company’s anticipated near term sale and securitization requirements. These loans are recorded at the lower of cost, consisting of principal and deferred costs, or fair value. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company recorded a lower of cost or fair value write down of $34.7 million for loans that were transferred from loans held for sale back into the Company’s loan portfolio. For the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, the fair value of loans held for sale exceeded cost and no write down was necessary. See Note 16 for more information about the carrying value of loans held for sale. Changes in the Company’s loans held for sale are presented in the table below: Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2008 2007 Balance at beginning of period $ 337,790 $ 323,041 Origination and purchases 726,865 353,384 Transfers into loans held for sale 2,411,222 6,589,465 Transfers back into the operating loan portfolio (2,222,087 ) (2,185,101 ) Loan sales (138,543 ) (1,758,047 ) Loan securitizations – (2,931,766 ) Fair value write down of loans held for sale (34,672 ) – Other (1) (8,259 ) (53,186 ) Balance at end of period $ 1,072,316 $ 337,790 (1) Amount includes borrower principal payments and loan consolidations. Derivatives The Company uses derivative financial products, including swaps and options, in an effort to manage its exposure to interest rate risk. In addition, the Company uses cross-currency swaps in an effort to manage its exposure to foreign currency exchange rates on its foreign currency denominated secured borrowings. The Company’s derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended (SFAS 133) and are carried at fair value in Other assets or Other liabilities with changes in fair value recorded currently in Fee and other income. 57 Internally Developed Software Certain direct costs associated with the development of internal use software are capitalized. The Company capitalizes development costs for internal use software in accordance with the provisions of Statement of Position 98-1, Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use. These costs are included in Other assets and are amortized by the straight-line method over the service period, not to exceed ten years. Capitalization of development costs starts after the preliminary project stage is completed and ends when the project is substantially complete and ready for its intended use. Capitalized internally developed software costs are periodically reviewed for impairment. Capitalized costs of projects deemed to be obsolete or abandoned are written off as operating expenses. Employee Benefits Expense The Company’s employee benefits are provided under programs administered and maintained by Citigroup. Employee benefits expense includes prior and current service costs of pension and other postretirement benefit plans, which are accrued on a current basis based on a Citigroup allocation that is applied to employee salary costs. Any pension obligation pertaining to these plans is a liability of Citigroup. Earnings Per Share Basic earnings per common share is computed by dividing income applicable to common stockholders by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the period. In 2008, 2007 and 2006, the Company had no securities or other contracts to issue Company common stock that could result in dilution. Income Taxes The Company is included in the consolidated federal income tax return of Citigroup, and is included in certain combined or unitary state/local income or franchise tax returns of Citigroup or its subsidiaries. While the Company is included in these consolidated, combined or unitary returns, it has agreed to pay to CBNA an amount equal to the federal, state and local taxes the Company would have paid had it filed its returns on a separate company basis and the amount, if any, by which the tax liability of any unitary group (of which any Citigroup affiliate other than the Company is a member) is adjusted by virtue of the inclusion of the Company’s activity in the group’s unitary return. CBNA has agreed to pay the Company an amount equal to the tax benefit of the actual tax loss of the Company as if the Company filed a separate return and the amount, if any, by which the tax liability of any unitary group (of which any Citigroup affiliate other than the Company is a member) is adjusted by virtue of the inclusion of the Company’s activity in the group’s unitary return. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recorded for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in the Consolidated Financial Statements or tax returns based upon enacted tax laws and rates. Deferred tax assets are recognized subject to management’s judgment that realization is more likely than not. Since all of the Company’s deferred tax assets are expected to be realized, the Company does not maintain a valuation allowance for these assets, in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes (SFAS 109). The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (FIN 48), which sets out a framework for preparers to use to determine the appropriate level of tax reserves to maintain for uncertain tax positions. This interpretation of SFAS 109 uses a two-step approach wherein a tax benefit is recognized if a position is more-likely-than-not to be sustained. The amount of the benefit is then measured to be the highest tax benefit which is greater than fifty percent likely to be realized. FIN 48 also sets out disclosure requirements to enhance transparency of an entity's tax reserves. The Company adopted FIN 48 as of January 1, 2007. 58 Accounting Changes Fair Value Measurements As of January 1, 2007, the Company elected to early-adopt SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS 157). SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a consistent framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosure requirements about fair value measurements. Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets On January 1, 2006, the Company elected to early-adopt SFAS No. 156, Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets, an Amendment to SFAS No. 140 (SFAS 156). This pronouncement permits an election to remeasure servicing rights at fair value, with the changes in the fair value being recorded in current earnings. Upon adoption, the Company chose the fair value measurement method for recording its servicing assets and increased its beginning of the period retained earnings by a $1.5 million after tax cumulative effect adjustment to reflect its student loan servicing asset at fair value at January 1, 2006. 2. FUTURE APPLICATION OF ACCOUNTING STANDARDS Elimination of QSPEs and Changes in the FIN 46(R) Consolidation Model The FASB has issued an Exposure Draft of a proposed standard that would eliminate QSPEs from the guidance in SFAS 140. While the proposed standard has not been finalized this change may have a significant impact on the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements as the Company may lose sales treatment for assets previously sold to a QSPE, as well as for future sales, and for certain transfers of portions of assets that do not meet the proposed definition of “participating interests.” This proposed revision could become effective in January 2010. As of December 31, 2008, the total assets of QSPEs to which Company, acting as principal, has transferred assets and received sales treatment were $15.7 billion. In connection with the proposed changes to SFAS 140, the FASB has also issued a separate exposure draft of a proposed standard that proposes three key changes to the consolidation model in FASB Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, revised December 2003 (FIN 46(R)). First, the FASB will now include former QSPEs in the scope of FIN 46(R). In addition, the FASB supports mending FIN 46(R) to change the method of analyzing which party to a variable interest entity (VIE) should consolidate the VIE to a qualitative determination of power combined with benefits and losses instead of today's risks and rewards model. Finally, the proposed standard requires that the analysis of primary beneficiaries be reevaluated whenever circumstances change. The existing rules require reconsideration only when specified reconsideration events occur. The FASB is currently re-deliberating these proposed standards and they are accordingly still subject to change. Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities – an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 (SFAS 161). The standard requires enhanced disclosures about derivative instruments and hedged items that are accounted for under SFAS 133 and related interpretations. The standard will be effective for all of the Company’s interim and annual financial statements for periods beginning after November 15, 2008, with early adoption permitted. The standard expands the disclosure requirements for derivatives and hedged items and has no impact on how the Company accounts for these instruments. 59 3. RESTRUCTURING AND RELATED CHARGES During 2008, under its then existing severance policy, the Company announced two restructuring initiatives in an effort to prudently manage the business through the unprecedented market conditions and to strategically reposition its business to benefit from certain products, channels, and operational structure while strategically deploying capital resources. As a result of these initiatives, the Company recorded restructuring and related charges of $12.4 million during 2008. These charges consist of severance related costs of $11.8 million and non-cash charges associated with the impairment of software assets totaling $0.6 million. As a result of these activities, 215 positions have been eliminated. At December 31, 2008, the Company had a liability of $5.0 million related to this restructuring included in Other liabilities. At December 31, 2008, a majority of the affected employees had been terminated, with the remaining terminations expected to be completed by the second quarter of 2009. 4. STUDENT LOANS The Company’s portfolio of student loans consists primarily of loans originated under government guaranteed loan programs, principally the FFEL Program. The Company owns and manages the following types of FFEL Program loans: subsidized Federal Stafford, unsubsidized Federal Stafford, Federal PLUS and Federal Consolidation Loans. In addition, the Company’s government-guaranteed portfolio includes Federal Supplemental Loans for Students (SLS Loans) and Health Education Assistance Loans (HEAL Loans). When the statutory interest rates on most FFEL Program loans provide less than prescribed rates of return, the Company receives compensation from the federal government as defined by the Higher Education Act. The federal government pays a special allowance payment (SAP), which increases the Company’s loan yield over a base rate tied to either the 90-day Commercial Paper rate as published by the Department (CP) or the 91-day Treasury Bill auction yield, depending on the loan origination date. In addition, the federal government generally pays the stated interest rate on subsidized Federal Stafford Loans while the borrower is in school, grace or deferment. The Company’s loan portfolio expands through disbursements of new FFEL Program loans as well as secondary market and other loan procurement activity. Purchases may include FFEL Program loans purchased through third-party purchase agreements. These agreements obligate the Company to purchase eligible loans offered for sale and/or originated by the other party. The contractual premium on the loans purchased under these contracts varies from agreement to agreement. The Company’s portfolio also contains private education loans originated through alternative programs. These loans are generally for students who either seek additional financial assistance beyond that available through the government programs and other sources or do not qualify for federal government sponsored student loan programs. Private education loans are generally offered based on the borrower’s or co-signer’s creditworthiness. Private education loans are prime rate-based with provisions similar to the FFEL Program, such as deferment of both principal and interest payments while the student is in school. In order to comply with certain legal and regulatory requirements, private education loans are originated by CBNA, the Company’s principal shareholder. In accordance with the provisions of an intercompany agreement, origination and servicing fees are charged to CBNA for the underwriting, disbursing and servicing of private education loans. After full disbursement, the Company purchases all private education loans from CBNA. 60 The Company’s loans are summarized by program type as follows: December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2008 2007 Federal Stafford Loans $ 10,188,076 $ 8,687,483 Federal Consolidation Loans 6,312,535 6,364,762 Federal SLS/PLUS/HEAL Loans 1,564,051 1,192,028 Private education loans 5,861,545 4,696,337 Total student loans held, excluding deferred costs 23,926,207 20,940,610 Deferred origination and premium costs 635,449 668,082 Student Loans held 24,561,656 21,608,692 Less: allowance for loan losses (110,329 ) (42,115 ) Student Loans held, net 24,451,327 21,566,577 Loans held for sale, excluding deferred costs 1,058,953 331,263 Deferred origination and premium costs 13,363 6,527 Loans held for sale 1,072,316 337,790 Other loans and lines of credit 9,016 87,437 Total loan assets $ 25,532,659 $ 21,991,804 Of the FFEL Program loans presented above, $1.9 billion have been pledged as collateral against the Company’s secured borrowings. In addition, $1.0 billion of loans classified as Loans held for sale have been pledged as collateral against the Company’s secured borrowing with the Department. See Note 6 for additional information. The Company’s FFEL Program loan holdings are guaranteed by the federal government in the event of a borrower’s default, death, disability, bankruptcy, school closure, false certification or unpaid school refund, subject to risk-sharing provisions established by the federal government. Insurance on FFEL Program loans is provided by certain state or not-for-profit guarantors, which are reinsured by the federal government. The Higher Education Act requires every state to either establish its own guarantor or contract with another guarantor in order to support the education financing and credit needs of students at post-secondary schools. FFEL Program guarantors in each state generally guarantee loans for students attending schools in their particular state or region or guarantee loans for their residents attending schools in another state. FFEL Program loans are subject to regulatory requirements relating to servicing in order to maintain the loan’s guarantee. In the event of default on a student loan or a borrower’s death, disability or bankruptcy, the Company files a claim with the guarantor of the loan. As of December 31, 2008, the Company receives reimbursement on substantially all FFEL Program loan claims at a rate of 97% or 98%, depending on the origination date of the loan. FFEL Program loan claims are subject to rejection by the guarantor in the event of loan servicing or origination defects. If servicing or origination defects are identified, the claimed loan is rejected and returned to the Company for remedial loan servicing. During the remedial servicing period, usually lasting several months, interest income is not accrued. The loans in remediation were not material at both December 31, 2008 and 2007. If the guarantee on the rejected claim cannot be reinstated, the defaulted loan is written off against the allowance for loan losses, generally, within four months of the claim rejection. Guarantor claim payments on loans with minor servicing defects are subject to interest penalty deductions that are charged directly against current period interest income. 61 The following tables provide details of loans, excluding allowance for loan losses and deferred origination and premium costs, by type of guaranty or risk-sharing agreement: December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2008 % 2007 % Federal Loan Guarantors New York State Higher Education Services Corp. $ 5,545,464 22 $ 5,392,849 25 EdFund 4,020,974 16 3,472,724 16 United Student Aid Funds 2,039,040 8 2,073,709 10 American Student Assistance 1,887,695 8 1,456,649 7 Texas Guaranteed Student Loan Corp. 1,198,959 5 849,706 4 Great Lakes Higher Education 911,416 4 616,994 3 Other federal loan guarantors 3,515,205 14 2,705,888 13 Total federally guaranteed 19,118,753 77 16,568,519 78 Private education loan insurers 4,541,439 18 3,869,945 18 Total guaranteed/insured 23,660,192 95 20,438,464 96 Other unguaranteed/uninsured (1) 1,333,984 5 920,846 4 Total loans $ 24,994,176 100 $ 21,359,310 100 (1) Primarily includes uninsured CitiAssist loans and lines of credit The Company’s private education loan portfolio is not guaranteed by the federal government. Although private education loans do not carry a federal government guarantee, the Company has purchased private insurance on 75% of these loans through United Guaranty Commercial Insurance Company of North Carolina/New Hampshire Insurance Company (UGCIC/NHIC) and on 2% of these loans through Arrowood Indemnity Company (Arrowood). UGCIC/NHIC are subsidiaries of American International Group (AIG). These insurance providers insure the Company against loss in cases of borrower loan default, bankruptcy or death. Under the Arrowood program, private education loans that are submitted for default claim are generally subject to a risk-sharing deductible of 5% of the sum of the outstanding principal and accrued interest balances. Under the UGCIC/NHIC program, defaults are generally subject to risk-sharing deductibles between 10% and 20% of the claim amounts. Since 2003, UGCIC/NHIC has insured the Company for maximum portfolio losses ranging from 12.5% to 13.5%. The Company is exposed to 100% of losses that exceed these thresholds, which is not expected to occur in the near term. For loans insured during 2005 and 2006, the insurance premium is calculated under an experience-rated plan, which may require additional premium payments of up to $58.2 million in order to maintain insurance coverage for these loans if the loss limits exceed the established parameters. The Company ceased insuring new CitiAssist loans originated on or after January 1, 2008. A portion of the uninsured loans are covered by risk-sharing agreements with schools and universities. Under these programs, the school or university assumes a portion of the Company’s credit exposure for the covered loans. The risk-sharing agreements generally take one of two forms: i) the school reimburses the Company for a specified percentage of losses of 50% to 100% when the losses exceed an agreed upon threshold ranging from 0% to 100% or ii) the school pays 8% to 50% of the total disbursed amount to compensate for future expected losses. 62 The allowance for loan losses provides a reserve for estimated risk-sharing and other credit losses on FFEL Program and CitiAssist loans. Changes in the Company’s allowance for loan losses are as follows: (Dollars in thousands) 2008 2007 2006 Balance at beginning of year $ 42,115 $ 14,197 $ 4,990 Provision for loan losses 140,895 59,920 26,170 Charge offs (80,618 ) (36,045 ) (19,624 ) Recoveries 10,578 5,697 2,661 Other (1) (2,641 ) (1,654 ) – Balance at end of year $ 110,329 $ 42,115 $ 14,197 (1) Represents reserve amounts associated with loans securitized. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company had $32.4 million and $19.1 million, respectively, of loans that ceased accruing interest. The Company also had $642.2 million and $701.3 million of loans that were greater than 90 days delinquent and were still accruing interest at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 5. OTHER ASSETS Other assets are summarized as follows: December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2008 2007 Accrued interest receivable from student loan borrowers $ 798,113 $ 649,219 from federal government 12,889 106,686 Servicing asset from securitization activity (Note 15 and 16) 208,133 199,112 Collateral on derivatives with CBNA 387,498 86,699 Derivative agreements with CBNA (Note 13) 91,559 35,864 Retained notes from securitization activities 66,487 24,204 Restricted cash 47,615 – Equipment and computer software (1) 27,457 34,563 Other 19,866 18,609 Total other assets $ 1,659,617 $ 1,154,956 (1) Amounts are reflected net of accumulated depreciation and software amortization of $59.1 million and $53.4 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Depreciation and software amortization expense totaled $12.3 million, $14.4 million and $13.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Included in equipment and computer software are capitalized internally developed software costs of $25.4 million and $31.5 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. During the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company capitalized $7.7 million and $5.3 million, respectively, in costs related to software development. The Company disposed of equipment and computer software with a net book value of $3.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2008, of which $2.9 million is included in Other expenses and $0.6 million is included in Restructuring and related charges. The Company had no significant disposals of equipment and computer software during the year ended December 31, 2007. 63 During the year ended December 31, 2008, accrued interest receivable from borrowers increased by $148.9 million. The increase is primarily due to increases in the Company’s student loan assets. Accrued interest receivable from the federal government decreased by $93.8 million (88%) during the year ended December 31, 2008. This decrease is primarily due to the impact of declining interest rates, which reduced SAP due from the federal government. The Company is required to maintain collateral for its derivative contracts entered into with CBNA in a margin account. The Company’s collateral on these derivatives increased by $300.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2008, primarily as a result of declining interest rates. For further information on the Company’s derivative agreements, see Note 13. The increase in the retained notes from securitizations was $42.3 million. This increase was related to the retention of an additional $59.1 million of notes during the year. The Company’s retained notes were written down by $16.8 million to reflect their fair value at December 31, 2008. For more information of these retained notes, see Note 15. During March 2008, the Company completed its first on-balance sheet securitization. As a result, the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements include cash held by the trust, or restricted cash, which can be only used to satisfy trust obligations. 6. BORROWINGS At December 31, 2008 and 2007, short- and long-term borrowings were made under the terms of an Omnibus Credit Agreement, as amended (Omnibus Credit Agreement) with CBNA. Under this agreement, the maximum aggregate credit available is $30.0 billion through December 31, 2009. If the agreement is not extended or replaced by that date, the borrowings outstanding at that date would continue to mature based on their originally contracted maturities. In addition, the Company would no longer have a guaranteed funding source for new borrowings, which could negatively impact the ability to fund future disbursements. The cost of funding and maturities are negotiated on a borrowing-by-borrowing basis. The Omnibus Credit Agreement contains no material financial covenants or restrictions, though it terminates and all outstanding borrowings thereunder become due and payable if less than 50% of the voting equity interest in the Company is owned or controlled by CBNA or any of Citigroup’s subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2008, $4.3 billion of the Company’s outstanding borrowings under the Omnibus Credit Agreement included derivatives embedded in the respective debt instruments. These embedded derivatives have been determined to be clearly and closely related to the underlying debt instruments and, in accordance with SFAS 133, do not require bifurcation. Management considers these options as economic hedges to the floor income component of its assets. Short-Term Borrowings (Dollars in thousands) December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 Amount Contracted Weighted Average Interest Rate Amount Contracted Weighted Average Interest Rate Notes payable $ 8,617,200 2.52 % $ 5,173,000 5.23 % Secured borrowings from the Department of Education 1,002,211 3.37 % – – Portion of long-term borrowings due within one year 4,037,000 2.63 % 8,200,000 4.92 % Total short-term borrowings $ 13,656,411 2.61 % $ 13,373,000 5.04 % 64 During December 2008, the Company obtained $1.0 billion of funding through the sale of participation interests in certain FFEL Program loans under the Participation Program. Loans funded under the Participation Program must be either refinanced or the participated loans must be sold to the Department pursuant to the Purchase Program prior to its expiration on September 30, 2009. The Company expects to sell these loans to the Department. Short-term borrowings have a remaining term to maturity of one year or less. The Company expects that each of the Omnibus short-term borrowings will be refinanced with new borrowings. At December 31, 2008, all of the notes payable above had variable interest rates. Long-Term Borrowings December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2008 2007 Secured borrowings, based on London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) (note rates ranged from 2.60% to 3.62% at December 31, 2008), due March 2013 – December 2032 $ 1,727,744 $ – CBNA Notes, based on LIBOR (note rates ranged from 3.44% to 6.39% at December 31, 2008), due August 2009 – April 2012 5,389,000 – CBNA Notes, based on LIBOR (note rates ranged from 4.84% to 5.17% at December 31, 2007), matured July - August 2008 – 5,900,000 CBNA Notes, based on LIBOR (note rate 5.03% at December 31, 2007), matured December 2008 – 2,000,000 CBNA Notes, based on LIBOR (note rate 0.96% at December 31, 2008), due December 2009 2,000,000 2,000,000 CBNA Notes, fixed rate (note rate of 3.02% at December 31, 2007), matured April 2008 – 300,000 CBNA Notes, fixed rate (note rate of 5.39% at December 31, 2008), due September 2016 100,000 100,000 CBNA Notes, based on LIBOR or strike rate, whichever is higher (note rate of 4.73% at December 31, 2008), due January 2009 1,300,000 1,500,000 CBNA Notes, based on LIBOR or strike rate, whichever is higher (note rate of 3.78% at December 31, 2008), due July 2010 2,000,000 2,000,000 CBNA Notes, based on LIBOR or strike rate, whichever is higher (note rate of 3.70% at December 31, 2008), due July 2015 1,000,000 1,000,000 CBNA Notes, based on prime rate, (note rates of 2.20% at December 31, 2008), due January 2010 1,500,000 1,500,000 CBNA Notes, based on prime rate, (note rates of 6.45% at December 31, 2008), due April 2013 850,000 – Less: portion of long-term borrowings due within one year (4,037,000 ) (8,200,000 ) Total long-term borrowings $ 11,829,744 $ 8,100,000 All borrowings that are based upon LIBOR or prime rates are variable borrowings in which the interest rate resets every one to three months depending on the specific terms of each borrowing. At December 31, 2008, the Company had $1.7 billion of secured borrowings of which $0.2 billion is denominated in Euros. An additional $0.1 billion of notes associated with the transaction remain available for issuance. Principal payments on the secured borrowings are made as principal amounts are collected on the collateralized loans. See Note 14 for additional information regarding collateralized assets and associated liabilities related to this secured borrowing. 65 At December 31, 2008, aggregate annual maturities on long-term debt obligations (based on final maturity dates) were as follows: $5.7 billion in 2010, $1.6 billion in 2011, $0.9 billion in 2012, $0.9 billion in 2013, $1.0 billion in 2015, and $0.1 billion in 2016. 7. OTHER LIABILITIES Other liabilities are summarized as follows: December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2008 2007 Liability from derivative agreements with CBNA (Note 13) $ 463,628 $ 91,306 Interest payable 151,382 174,519 Income taxes payable to CBNA (Note 12) 47,998 13,221 Liability from derivative agreements on foreign currency translation 24,935 – Restructuring reserve 5,048 255 Accounts payable and other liabilities 129,893 115,873 Total other liabilities $ 822,884 $ 395,174 8. FEE AND OTHER INCOME A summary of fee and other income follows: Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2008 2007 2006 Net gains from securitization retained interests and related derivatives (Note 15) $ 126,058 $ 21,353 $ 10,211 Fair value write down on loans held for sale (34,672 ) – – Foreign currency translation gains net of mark-to-market losses on foreign currency swap (1,790 ) – – Other origination and servicing fees from CBNA (Note 10) 7,406 7,271 7,457 Late fees 2,016 6,063 7,283 Other income 2,179 1,614 3,910 Total fee and other income $ 101,197 $ 36,301 $ 28,861 66 9. OTHER EXPENSES A summary of other expenses follows: Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2008 2007 2006 Servicing, professional, and other fees $ 70,824 $ 62,123 $ 56,707 Data processing and communications 14,702 14,456 10,839 Depreciation and amortization 12,285 15,205 14,467 Stationery, supplies and postage 6,429 6,040 6,065 Advertising and marketing 3,907 8,635 10,533 Disposal of equipment and computer software 2,849 – 708 Premises 2,650 3,005 2,952 Travel and entertainment 1,004 2,042 2,255 Other 4,263 5,649 4,303 Total other expenses $ 118,913 $ 117,155 $ 108,829 10. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS CBNA, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Citigroup, owns 80% of the outstanding common stock of the Company. Pursuant to various intercompany agreements, a number of significant transactions are carried out between the Company and Citigroup, CBNA and/or their affiliates. Related party agreements with CBNA include an Omnibus Credit Agreement, a tax-sharing agreement and student loan originations and servicing agreements. In addition, the Company maintains a trust agreement with CBNA through which it originates FFEL Program loans. Also, the Company has an agreement for education loan servicing with Citibank (South Dakota), National Association. Management believes that the terms under which these transactions and services are provided are, in the aggregate, no less favorable to the Company than those that could be obtained from unaffiliated third parties. In January 2009, Citigroup announced that it was realigning its structure into two distinct businesses: Citicorp, which will be comprised of Citigroup’s core businesses, and Citi Holdings, which will be comprised of non-core businesses. The Company will be included within Citi Holdings. The Company does not currently expect this organizational realignment to adversely affect the Company's business or its operations, but there can be no assurance that future decisions with respect to the Company as a non-core business will have no impact on the Company or its relationships and transactions with CBNA or its affiliates. 67 Detailed below is a description of, and amounts relating to, the Company’s transactions with either CBNA or other Citigroup affiliates that have been reflected in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income: Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2008 2007 2006 Revenue Interest income $ 2,550 $ 1,525 $ 411 Interest expense (825,886 ) (1,175,159 ) (1,212,928 ) Fee and other (loss) income: Derivative valuation (loss) gain (270,370 ) (32,961 ) 4,472 Other origination and servicing fees 7,576 7,271 7,458 Operating Expenses Salaries and employee benefits: Employee benefits and administration $ 9,123 $ 11,041 $ 10,600 Stock-based compensation 2,766 2,345 2,275 Other expenses: Servicing, professional and other fees 62,327 50,890 46,489 Data processing and communications 7,022 6,699 6,238 Premises 2,619 2,973 2,930 Other 6,143 2,651 2,316 CBNA Omnibus Credit Agreement All of the Company’s outstanding short- and long-term unsecured borrowings were incurred under the terms of the Omnibus Credit Agreement. At December 31, 2008 the Company had outstanding short- and long-term unsecured borrowings with CBNA of $12.7 billion and $10.1 billion, respectively, and $13.4 billion and $8.1 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2007. Under this agreement, the maximum aggregate credit available is $30.0 billion. The Omnibus Credit Agreement expires on December 31, 2009. The Company is currently negotiating a new agreement with CBNA to replace the existing agreement. Funding terms and conditions under the agreement are negotiated between the Company and CBNA on a borrowing-by-borrowing basis. The cost of borrowing is affected by market conditions and as such future borrowing rates will vary. The Omnibus Credit Agreement contains no material financial covenants or restrictions. The Omnibus Credit Agreement terminates and all outstanding borrowings thereunder become due and payable if less than 50% of the voting equity interest in the Company is owned or controlled by CBNA or any of Citigroup’s subsidiaries. This agreement does not restrict the Company’s right to borrow from other sources. Interest expense incurred under these borrowings is reflected in the table above. For further information on the Company’s borrowings under the Omnibus Credit Agreement, see Note 6. Interest Rate Swap and Option Agreements The Company entered into interest rate swaps and options with CBNA, an investment-grade counterparty, in an effort to manage its interest rate risk exposure. CBNA requires the Company to remit cash into a margin account as collateral on these derivatives. The Company’s collateral on these derivatives increased to $387.5 million as of December 31, 2008 from $86.7 million as of December 31, 2007. For further information on the Company’s derivative agreements, see Note 13. 68 Student Loan Origination Agreement and Servicing Fees Earned CitiAssist loans are originated and serviced under an intercompany agreement with CBNA. After final disbursement by CBNA, the Company purchases all qualified private education loans at CBNA’s carrying value at the time of purchase, plus a contractual premium. Total principal balances of CitiAssist loans purchased by the Company were $1.5 billion and $2.0 billion for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Total premiums paid by the Company related to CitiAssist loan purchases were $9.9 million and $13.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. At December 31, 2008, the Company was committed to purchase CitiAssist loans of $1.5 billion under this agreement. The Company also earns loan origination and servicing revenue for work performed on CitiAssist loans held by CBNA prior to purchase by the Company. Servicing, Professional and Other Fees Paid The majority of the loan originations and servicing work on the Company’s FFEL Program and CitiAssist loan portfolios was performed under the provisions of intercompany agreements with affiliates of the Company, including Citibank (South Dakota), National Association. The increases in the charges are primarily due to managed loan portfolio growth. Stock-based Compensation The Company participates in various Citigroup stock-based compensation programs under which Citigroup stock or stock options are granted to certain of the Company’s employees. The Company has no stock-based compensation programs in which its own stock is granted. The Company pays Citigroup directly for participation in certain of its stock-based compensation programs, but receives a capital contribution for those awards related to participation in the employee incentive stock option program. CBNA Tax-sharing Agreement The Company is included in the consolidated federal income tax return of Citigroup, as well as certain combined or unitary state/local income or franchise tax returns of Citigroup or its subsidiaries. As such, the Company pays its income taxes through CBNA. The taxes paid by the Company are based on an effective tax rate that approximates the tax expense that would be recognized if the Company were to file such income tax returns on a stand-alone basis. Other Intercompany Arrangements Citigroup and its subsidiaries engage in other transactions and servicing activities with the Company, including cash management, data processing, telecommunications, payroll processing and administration, facilities procurement, underwriting, and others. 69 Other information about intercompany transactions is available as follows: for CitiAssist loans, see Note 4; for short- and long-term funding and interest rate swap transactions, see Notes 6 and 13; for employee benefit related transactions, see Note 11; and for income tax matters, see Notes 1, 7 and 12. 11. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS The Company’s employees are covered under various Citigroup benefit plans, including: medical and life insurance that covers active, retired and disabled employees; defined benefit pension; dental; defined contribution; salary continuance for disabled employees and workers compensation. The Company pays Citigroup a fee for employee benefit costs. The benefit cost rate on salaries was 25% in 2008 and 27% in both 2007 and 2006. Substantially all of the Company’s employees participate in Citigroup’s benefit plans. Any pension obligation pertaining to these plans is a liability of Citigroup. The fringe rate included approximately $0.9 million for both 2007 and 2006, representing the Company’s defined benefit plan expense allocation. The plan was eliminated during 2008 and there was no expense. In 2008 the fringe rate included approximately $2.4 million of contributions made to the employee defined contribution plan. These amounts are included with other employee benefit costs in Employee benefits and administration in the related party transactions table in Note 10. 12. INCOME TAXES The provision for income taxes consists of the following: Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2008 2007 2006 Current Federal $ 87,300 $ 98,525 $ 157,612 State (766) 16,331 23,517 Total current $ 86,534 $ 114,856 $ 181,129 Deferred Federal $ (42,347 ) $ (153 ) $ (3,175 ) State (3,473 ) (26 ) (474 ) Total deferred $ (45,820 ) $ (179 ) $ (3,649 ) Total income tax provision $ 40,714 $ 114,677 $ 177,480 The Company's effective tax rate was 35.2%, 38.6% and 38.2% for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The decrease from 2008 to 2007 reflects a credit resulting from the revaluation of the Company's current and deferred income taxes, partially offset by the recognition of liabilities related to uncertain tax positions in certain states. The net credit relating to prior periods amounted to $6.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2008. The following table presents the actual income tax provisions computed at the federal statutory income tax rate of 35%: Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2008 2007 2006 Income taxes computed at federal statutory rate $ 40,432 $ 104,079 $ 162,502 State tax provision, net of federal benefits (1) (2,755 ) 11,490 14,982 Other, net 3,037 (892 ) (4 ) Total income tax provision $ 40,714 $ 114,677 $ 177,480 (1) The state income tax benefit for 2008 resulted from the revaluation of current and deferred income taxes 70 Deferred income taxes consist of the following: December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2008 2007 Deferred Tax Assets Unrealized losses on derivative instruments $ 108,376 $ – Allowance for loan losses 42,511 16,247 Other 3,007 863 Total deferred tax assets $ 153,894 $ 17,110 Deferred Tax Liabilities Deferred loan origination costs $ (187,696 ) $ (201,401 ) Internally developed software costs (9,460 ) (10,536 ) Gain on securitizations and other securitization related income/(loss) (197,430 ) (91,231 ) Other (950 ) (1,404 ) Total deferred tax liabilities $ (395,536 ) $ (304,572 ) Net deferred tax liabilities $ (241,642 ) $ (287,462 ) The following is a roll forward of the Company’s FIN 48 unrecognized tax benefits from January 1, 2008 to December 31, 2008. (Dollars in thousands) Total unrecognized tax benefits at January 1, 2008 $ 2,641 Net amount of increases for current year’s tax positions 189 Gross amount of increases for prior years’ tax positions 4,866 Total unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2008 $ 7,696 The total amount of unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2008 that, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate is $3.3 million. 71 Interest and penalties related to FIN 48 unrecognized tax benefits, which are not included in the rollforward above, are a component of the provision for income taxes. Interest and Penalties (Dollars in thousands) Pretax Net of Tax Interest and penalties in the balance sheet at January 1, 2008 $ 580 $ 377 Interest and penalties in the 2008 statement of income 934 607 Interest and penalties in the balance sheet at December 31, 2008 $ 1,514 $ 984 The Company is included in the consolidated U.S. Federal income tax return of Citigroup and certain multi-combined and unitary state and local tax returns of Citigroup or its subsidiaries. Citigroup is presently under audit by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for 2003-2005. It is reasonably possible that the audit will conclude within the next 12 months. The resolution of the uncertain tax position related to the IRS audit would not affect the Company’s effective tax rate. The following are the major tax jurisdictions in which the Company operates and the earliest tax year subject to examination: Jurisdiction Tax year United States 2003 California 2000 New York 2005 13. DERIVATIVE AGREEMENTS The Company enters into derivative agreements in an effort to manage its exposure to interest rate risk and its exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The counterparty to the Company’s interest rate derivative agreements is CBNA, an investment grade company. None of the derivatives held by the Company at December 31, 2008 qualified for hedge accounting treatment under SFAS 133. The Company’s derivative positions are provided in the table below: December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2008 2007 Fair Value Fair Value Notional Asset Liability Notional Asset Liability Other LIBOR Based Swaps 13,342,300 37,361 65,348 8,495,000 34,492 2,113 Interest Rate Floor Options 12,127,561 54,198 398,280 8,743,266 1,372 89,193 Foreign Currency Swap 232,050 – 24,935 – – – The Company’s other LIBOR based swaps are intended to economically hedge the interest rate risk inherent in the Company’s residual interests. These swaps mature between 2011 and 2028. The Company’s interest rate floor options are written derivative contracts that are designed to function as economic hedges of the floor income component of the residual interests. The options mature between 2008 and 2028. The Company’s foreign currency swap is intended to economically hedge the Euro based obligations of its foreign currency-denominated secured borrowing. The swap matures in 2032. 72 14. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (SFAS 107) The estimated fair value of the Company’s financial instruments is presented in the following table: (Dollars in thousands) December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 Carrying Value Estimated Fair Value Carrying Value Estimated Fair Value Financial Assets Loans, net $ 25,532,659 $ 24,012,341 $ 21,991,804 $ 22,303,074 Cash 595 595 25 25 Accrued interest receivable 811,002 811,002 755,905 755,905 Residual interests in loans securitized 942,807 942,807 633,074 633,074 Derivative assets 91,559 91,559 35,864 35,864 Servicing assets 208,133 208,133 199,112 199,112 Retained notes from securitization sales 66,487 66,487 22,204 22,204 Financial Liabilities Short-term borrowings $ 13,656,411 $ 13,594,320 $ 13,373,000 $ 13,373,000 Long-term borrowings 11,829,744 11,384,196 8,100,000 8,042,400 Derivative liabilities 488,563 488,563 91,306 91,306 Interest payable 151,382 151,382 174,519 174,519 In accordance with SFAS No. 107, Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments (SFAS 107), the estimated fair values have been determined by the Company using available market information and other valuation methodologies that are described below. The fair value approximates the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. These estimates are subjective in nature and involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgment. Accordingly, the estimates may not be indicative of the amounts that the Company could realize in a current market exchange. Changes in assumptions could materially affect the estimates. The difference between fair value and carrying value may vary from period to period based on changes in a wide range of factors, including LIBOR and CP interest rates, portfolio mix of variable and fixed rate loans, growth of the portfolio, timing of contractual repricing, portfolio age, default rates and maturity or contractual settlement dates. Loans, Net The fair value of loans was calculated by discounting cash flows through expected maturity using the estimated current relevant yield curve for the interest rates. The carrying value is presented net of the allowance for loan losses. Cash and Accrued Interest Receivable and Payable Due to the short-term nature of these instruments, carrying value approximates fair value. 73 Residual Interests in Loans Securitized and Servicing Assets The fair value of the residual interest in the loans securitized and the servicing assets were determined using a discounted cash flow model. Retained interests from securitization are recorded at fair value in the Consolidated Financial Statements. For more information on student loan securitizations, see Note 15. Short-Term and Long-Term Borrowings The fair value of these instruments was calculated by discounting cash flows through maturity using estimated market discount rates. The Company’s short- and long-term borrowings are primarily based upon LIBOR or prime rates. Although these borrowings have variable interest rates with resets periods ranging from one day to every three months, depending on the specific terms of each borrowing, the credit spreads are fixed over the life of the borrowings. Derivatives Derivatives are used to manage interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate risk. Fair value was determined by discounting the estimated cash flows that may arise from these instruments using current market prices. Derivatives are recorded at fair value in the Consolidated Financial Statements. 15. STUDENT LOAN SECURITIZATIONS The Company maintains programs to securitize certain portfolios of student loan assets. Under the Company’s securitization programs, transactions qualifying as sales are off-balance sheet transactions in which the loans are removed from the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company and sold to an independent trust. In order to pay for the loan assets, the trust sells debt securities, collateralized solely by the student loan assets, to outside investors. For off-balance sheet securitizations, the Company generally retains interests in the form of subordinated residual interests (i.e., interest-only strips) and servicing rights. The Company also enters into similar securitization transactions that do not qualify for sale treatment and, accordingly, are accounted for as secured borrowings. These transactions do not give rise to a gain or loss on sale. Student loan assets sold to these securitization trusts, along with other assets and liabilities of the trusts, remain on-balance sheet. As of December 31, 2008, the carrying amount of the on-balance sheet securitized trust assets were $2.0 billion of which $1.9 billion is included in Federally insured student loans, and the remainder is comprised primarily of deferred origination and premium costs and restricted cash. The related liabilities of $1.8 billion at December 31, 2008, included $1.7 billion of Long-term secured borrowings while the remainder is included in Other liabilities. The assets are restricted from being sold or pledged as collateral. The cash flows from these assets may be used only to pay down the debt securities issued by the trust. Under terms of all the trust arrangements, the Company has no obligations to provide financial support and has not provided such support. A substantial portion of the credit risk associated with the securitized loans has been transferred to third party guarantors or insurers either under the FFEL Program or private credit insurance. 74 The following table summarizes the principal amounts and fair values of retained interests in the Company’s off-balance sheet loan securitizations: December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 (Dollars in thousands) FFEL Program Private education FFEL Program Private education Principal amounts $ 12,809,596 $ 2,286,745 $ 11,553,639 $ 2,570,248 Retained interests 1,042,766 174,661 640,416 215,974 The following table summarizes the Company’s securitization activity: Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2008 2007 2006 Securitization sales: Student loans securitized (1) $ 2,035,540 $ 2,876,812 $ 7,659,732 Net proceeds from student loans securitized during the period 1,973,207 2,907,581 7,591,048 Realized gains on loans securitized 1,262 70,814 189,017 Securitization financings: Student loans securitized (1) $ 1,993,213 $ – $ – Net proceeds from student loans securitized during the period (2) 1,798,638 – – (1) Amounts represent the value of the student loans securitized as of the securitization date. (2) The difference between student loans securitized and net proceeds received for the year ended December 31, 2008 primarily reflects $57.3 million of unissued notes, $10.5 million of issuance costs and discounts and $126.8 million of required overcollateralization (see Note 6). The following table reflects amounts received related to off-balance sheet securitization trusts: (Dollars in thousands) 2008 2007 2006 Cash received from trusts for servicing $ 77,863 $ 64,868 $ 32,242 Cash received from trusts on residual interests 138,681 65,388 24,844 Cash received from trusts on retained notes 2,400 – – During the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, the Company earned $78.2 million, $67.3 million and $34.4 million, respectively, of contractually specified servicing fees. The Company also earned $2.5 million and $0.1 million on retained notes for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 75 Changes in the Company’s servicing assets are presented in the table below: Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2008 2007 Balance at beginning of period $ 199,112 $ 169,234 Changes in fair value due to changes in inputs and assumptions 43,826 16,329 Other changes (1) (34,805 ) (31,997 ) Student loan securitizations (2) – 45,546 Balance at end of period $ 208,133 $ 199,112 (1) Amounts represent the effects of cash received and the passage of time. (2) There is no servicing asset or liability associated with the FFEL Program Stafford and PLUS loan securitization because the servicing fee approximated adequate compensation. The following table reflects fee and other income from off-balance sheet securitization trusts: Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2008 2007 2006 Gains (losses) related to residual interests $ 326,039 $ 2,733 $ (15,391 ) Servicing revenue net of valuation gains and losses on servicing assets 87,173 51,606 21,130 Mark-to-market (losses) gains on derivatives (270,370 ) (32,961 ) 4,472 Mark-to-market (losses) gains on retained notes (16,784 ) (25 ) – Total gains (losses) $ 126,058 $ 21,353 $ 10,211 The Company utilizes discounted cash flow models to measure the fair value of its residual interests and servicing assets. These models require management to make certain assumptions which, while based on relevant internal data, inherently involve significant judgment and uncertainty. The discount rates, basis spreads, anticipated net credit loss rates, anticipated prepayment rates and projected borrower benefit utilization rates are key assumptions utilized to measure the fair value of these retained interests. The Company’s discount rate is the sum of the risk-free rate and a risk premium which reflects the prevailing economic and market conditions as of December 31, 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company increased the risk premium of its residual interests by 225 basis points for FFEL Program loan trusts, 325 basis points for private education loan trusts and by 55 basis points for servicing assets to reflect the current level of cash flow uncertainty and lack of liquidity that exists in the market. The Company has also lowered its future prepayment assumptions to reflect an overall slowdown in borrower prepayment activity. The Company believes that this slowdown is the result of the changes to the FFEL Program as well as the current economic downturn. The impact of the change in the prepayment assumptions was a $37.2 million and $12.8 million mark-to-market gain on the Company’s residual interests and servicing assets, respectively, for 2008. The Company also recognized a mark-to-market gain on its residual interests as a result of the change in the fair value of the floor income embedded in the residual interest cash flows. The change in the value of the embedded floor income is primarily due to changes in interest rates as well as to increases in the expected loan balances over the life of the trusts. During 2008, the mark-to-market gain on the floor income embedded in the Company’s residual interests was $253.0 million. The key assumptions used to value the residual interests and servicing assets of the trusts at the inception date of the securitization were as follows: 2008 2007 Residual interest discount rates 10.64 % 10.2% to 10.5 % Servicing asset discount rates (1) – 5.9% to 6.6 % Constant prepayment rates 8.97 % 3.09% to 3.84 % Anticipated credit losses, net of insurance and guarantees 0.53 % 0.27% to 0.34 % Basis spread between LIBOR and CP rates 12 basis points 11 to 12 basis points Utilization rates of borrower benefits: Automated clearing house 2.27 % 10.0% to 23.0 % On time payments 5.82 % 0.0% to 23.3 % Servicing margin (1) – 26 to 28 basis points (1) There is no servicing asset or liability associated with the 2008 loan securitization sale because the servicing fee approximated adequate compensation. 76 At December 31, the key assumptions used to value the residual interests of trusts related to securitization sales were as follows: 2008 2007 Discount rates: FFEL Program Consolidation Loans 10.36 % 10.56 % FFEL Program Stafford and PLUS loan 10.36 % – Private education loans 13.36 % 12.56 % Constant prepayment rates: FFEL Program Consolidation Loans 0.77% to 1.10 % 1.73% to 3.09 % FFEL Program Stafford and PLUS loan 6.54 % – Private education loans 8.88 % 13.03 % Anticipated credit losses, net of insurance and guarantees: FFEL Program Consolidation Loans 0.32 % 0.30 % FFEL Program Stafford and PLUS loan 0.52 % – Private education loans 0.67 % 0.81 % Basis spread between LIBOR and CP rates 13 basis points 12 basis points Utilization rates of borrower benefits: Automated clearing house 2.3% to 40.2 % 10.0% to 40.2 % On time payments 0% to 35.7 % 0% to 41.3 % At December 31, the key assumptions used to value the servicing assets of trusts related to securitization sales were as follows: 2008 2007 Discount rates: FFEL Program Consolidation Loans 3.90 % 5.80 % Private education loans 4.40 % 6.30 % Constant prepayment rates: FFEL Program Consolidation Loans 0.77% to 1.10 % 1.73% to 3.09 % Private education loans 8.88 % 13.03 % Weighted average servicing margin 23 basis points 25 basis points A sensitivity analysis is provided in the table below that shows the effects of adverse changes in each of the key assumptions used to determine the fair value of the retained interests. The adverse effect of the change in each assumption is calculated independently while holding all other assumptions constant. Because the key assumptions may not be independent, the net effect of simultaneous adverse changes in the key assumptions may be different from the sum of the individual effects shown in the table. 77 The effects of the key assumptions on the residual interests and servicing assets are presented below: (Dollars in thousands) Residual Interests Servicing Assets Fair value at December 31, 2008 $ 942,807 $ 208,133 Discount rate 10% adverse change (23,210 ) (3,355 ) 20% adverse change (44,437 ) (7,052 ) Constant prepayment rate 10% adverse change (6,733 ) (1,844 ) 20% adverse change (13,224 ) (3,694 ) Anticipated credit losses, net of insurance and guarantees 10% adverse change (5,373 ) (1,130 ) 20% adverse change (10,922 ) (2,278 ) Expected basis spread between LIBOR and CP 10% adverse change (8,772 ) – 20% adverse change (17,543 ) – Borrower benefits – automated clearing house 10% adverse change (3,497 ) – 20% adverse change (6,972 ) – Borrower benefits – on time payments 10% adverse change (9,821 ) – 20% adverse change (19,554 ) – Servicing margin 10% adverse change – (23,072 ) 20% adverse change – (45,956 ) Principal amounts of off-balance sheet securitized loans and the related loan delinquencies (loans which are 90 days or more past due) are presented in the following table: December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2008 2007 Principal amounts $ 15,096,341 $ 14,123,887 Delinquencies 658,538 413,175 Credit losses, net of recoveries, for the Company’s off-balance sheet securitized loans are presented in the table below: Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2008 2007 2006 Credit losses, net of recoveries: $ 9,374 $ 6,661 $ 211 78 16. FAIR VALUE (SFAS 156, 157 and 159) The Company determines fair value using valuation techniques that are based upon observable and unobservable inputs. Observable inputs reflect market data obtained from independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflect the Company’s market assumptions. These two types of inputs create the following fair value hierarchy: · Level 1 – Quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets. · Level 2 – Quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active and model-derived valuations whose inputs are observable or whose primary value drivers are observable. · Level 3 – Instruments whose primary value drivers are unobservable. Items Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis The following table presents the Company’s financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis for each of these hierarchy levels: December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 (Dollars in thousands) Level 2 Level 3 Level 2 Level 3 Assets Residual interests in securitized loans $ – $ 942,807 $ – $ 633,074 Other assets 91,559 274,620 60,068 199,112 Total Assets $ 91,559 $ 1,217,427 $ 60,068 $ 832,186 Liabilities Other liabilities $ 488,563 $ – $ 91,306 $ – Derivatives Derivatives are used in an effort to manage interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate risk. Fair value was based upon quotes received from counterparties based on similar instruments in active markets. Derivatives are recorded at fair value and are included in Other assets and Other liabilities in the table above and in the Consolidated Financial Statements. For more information on derivatives, see Note 13. Retained Interests in Securitized Loans The fair values of residual interests and servicing assets were determined using discounted cash flow models. Servicing assets are included in Other assets in the table above. The Company has also retained notes from certain securitization sales, which are recorded at fair value and included in Other assets in the table above. The fair value of the retained notes was based upon non-binding independent broker quotes received for similar instruments. The Company obtains multiple quotes from independent brokers who are major participants in the student loan asset-backed securities market and believes that these quotes are the best indication of the value that could be realized in a market transaction. However, since the market for notes of this type is not currently active, the amount which the Company would receive in a current transaction could differ significantly from this estimate. The Company recorded a write-down of $16.8 million associated with retained notes during the year ended December 31, 2008, which is included in Fee and Other Income in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Retained interests are recorded at fair value in the Consolidated Financial Statements. For more information on loan securitizations, see Note 15. 79 The following table presents the changes in the Level 3 fair value category: (Dollars in thousands) Residual Interests in Securitized Loans Other Assets Balance at December 31, 2006 $ 546,422 $ 169,234 Total gains and losses (realized/unrealized) included in earnings: Interest income 59,177 – Fee and other income 2,733 27,036 Purchases, issuances and settlements 24,742 2,842 Balance at December 31, 2007 $ 633,074 $ 199,112 Total gains and losses (realized/unrealized) included in earnings: Interest income 65,510 – Fee and other income 326,039 41,851 Transfers in to Level 3 – 78,981 Purchases, issuances and settlements (81,816 ) (45,324 ) Balance at December 31, 2008 $ 942,807 $ 274,620 Unrealized gains and losses relating to assets still held at the reporting date (1) $ 326,039 $ 31,332 (1) The difference between total gains and losses (realized /unrealized) included in earnings and unrealized gains and losses relating to assets still held at the reporting date represents accreted yield. Items Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis Certain assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis and therefore are not included in the table above. These include assets such as loans held for sale that are measured at the lower of cost or fair value. The fair value of loans measured at the lower of cost or fair value is determined using discounted cash flow models. Such loans are generally classified in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy as these discounted cash flow models utilize unobservable inputs, including discount rate, expected prepayment rates and expected credit losses. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company recorded a lower of cost or fair value write down of $34.7 million for loans that were transferred from loans held for sale back into the operating loan portfolio. In June 2008, $1.9 billion of loans were transferred into loans held for sale for a then anticipated securitization, but due to significant deterioration in the market conditions at the beginning of the third quarter, the Company cancelled the planned securitization and transferred the loans back into the operating loan portfolio, resulting in a fair value write down. At December 31, 2008, the fair value of loans held for sale exceeded the cost basis of $1.1 billion. 80 17. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES The Company has obligations under several non-cancelable operating leases. Expenses related to those agreements totaled $2.5 million, $2.9 million and $3.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Included in these amounts are lease expenses with CBNA for the Pittsford, New York facility of $2.1 million, $2.4 million and $1.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. This amount is included in Premises in the related party transactions table in Note 10. The Pittsford, New York facilities agreement expires in May 2014. Future minimum lease payments at December 31, 2008 under agreements classified as operating leases with non-cancelable terms in excess of one year for the calendar years after December 31, 2008 are as follows: (Dollars in thousands) Minimum Lease Payments 2009 $ 1,867 2010 1,840 2011 1,858 2012 1,799 2013 1,806 Thereafter 775 Total $ 9,945 At December 31, 2008, FFEL Program loans in the amount of $2.2 billion have been committed, but not disbursed. In addition, the Company has forward purchase agreements, primarily with CBNA, that obligate the Company to purchase all loans offered for sale and/or originated by the other party. At December 31, 2008, the aggregate obligation under these commitments totaled $1.5 billion. In addition, the Company provides lines of credit to certain institutions. Such lines are used by these organizations exclusively to disburse FFEL Program Loans which the Company will subsequently purchase. At December 31, 2008, these institutions had unused lines of credit of $18.0 million available to them. In the ordinary course of business, the Company is involved in various litigation proceedings incidental to and typical of the business in which it is engaged. In the opinion of the Company’s management, the ultimate resolution of these proceedings would not be likely to have a material adverse effect on the results of the Company’s operations, financial condition or liquidity. 81 18. SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED) (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) Fourth Third Second First 2008 Net interest income $ 46,941 $ 83,521 $ 119,390 $ 81,447 Provision for loan losses (22,965 ) (46,791 ) (45,827 ) (25,312 ) Net interest income after provision for loan losses 23,976 36,730 73,563 56,135 Gains on loans sold and securitized 24 194 2,121 1,455 Fee and other income 33,803 16,923 39,012 11,459 Total operating expenses (37,715 ) (46,176 ) (51,849 ) (44,135 ) Income taxes (9,916 ) (287 ) (20,831 ) (9,680 ) Net income $ 10,172 $ 7,384 $ 42,016 $ 15,234 Basic and diluted earnings per common share $ 0.51 $ 0.37 $ 2.10 $ 0.76 Dividends declared per common share $ 1.43 $ 1.43 $ 1.43 $ 1.43 Common stock price: High $ 98.07 $ 126.15 $ 138.75 $ 126.00 Low $ 20.82 $ 83.06 $ 90.50 $ 92.05 Close (at quarter end) $ 41.00 $ 93.00 $ 98.08 $ 98.90 (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) Fourth Third Second First 2007 Net interest income $ 91,683 $ 100,330 $ 102,877 $ 93,757 Provision for loan losses (24,078 ) (21,419 ) (3,895 ) (10,528 ) Net interest income after provision for loan losses 67,605 78,911 98,982 83,229 Gains on loans sold and securitized 27,229 15,815 51,040 17,774 Fee and other income (loss) 22,070 (10,052 ) 9,420 14,863 Total operating expenses (45,591 ) (43,978 ) (45,751 ) (44,198 ) Income taxes (28,163 ) (15,695 ) (43,174 ) (27,645 ) Net income $ 43,150 $ 25,001 $ 70,517 $ 44,023 Basic and diluted earnings per common share $ 2.16 $ 1.25 $ 3.53 $ 2.20 Dividends declared per common share $ 1.43 $ 1.43 $ 1.43 $ 1.30 Common stock price: High $ 193.96 $ 212.46 $ 210.50 $ 216.06 Low $ 106.75 $ 161.38 $ 178.03 $ 183.00 Close (at quarter end) $ 110.00 $ 180.32 $ 203.90 $ 185.92 82 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION INFORMATION Form 10-K, Annual Report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, Commission File Number 1-11616. The Company is incorporated in the State of Delaware; its I.R.S. Employer Identification Number is 16-1427135; the address of the principal executive offices is 750 Washington Boulevard, Stamford, CT 06901; and its phone number is (203) 975-6861. The Company’s common stock is registered pursuant to section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “STU”. The Company is a well-known seasoned issuer (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933). The Company is required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Student Loan Corporation (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein and will not be contained in the Company’s 2009 Proxy Statement incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K, or in any amendment to this Form 10-K. The Company is an accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). The Company is not a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). The aggregate market value of the four million shares of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the Company as of the close of trading on June 30, 2008 was approximately $392.3 million. As of February 23, 2009, there were 20 million shares of the Company’s common stock outstanding. Certain information has been incorporated by reference, as described herein, into Part III of this annual report from the Company’s 2009 Proxy Statement. 83 EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES The following exhibits are either filed herewith or have been previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are filed herewith by incorporation by reference: · The Student Loan Corporation’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation · The Student Loan Corporation’s By-Laws, as amended · Material Contracts · Code of Ethics for Financial Professionals · Powers of Attorney of The Student Loan Corporation’s Directors Atal, Bailey, Doynow, Drake, Garside, Glover, Handler, Moseman and Thurm. · Certifications pursuant to Section 302 and Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 A more detailed exhibit index has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Stockholders may obtain copies of that index or any of the documents on that index by writing to: The Student Loan Corporation, Investor Relations, 750 Washington Boulevard, 9th Floor, Stamford, CT 06901 or on the Internet at www.studentloan.com. Financial Statements filed for The Student Loan Corporation: · Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 · Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 · Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 · Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 84 10-K CROSS REFERENCE INDEX This Annual Report and Form 10-K incorporate into a single document the requirements of the accounting profession and the Securities and Exchange Commission, including a comprehensive explanation of 2008 results. Part I Page Item 1 Business 4, 32-37 Item 1A Risk Factors 38-45 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None Item 