ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Industry We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from public school funding, which is dependent on support from federal, state, and local governments. Changes in funding for public school systems could reduce our revenues and impede the growth of our business. The availability of funding to purchase our products is subject to the many factors that can affect government funding, including downturns in general economic conditions, which reduce government tax revenues and may affect education funding, emergence of other priorities that can divert government funding from educational objectives, periodic changes in government leadership that can change spending priorities, and the government appropriations process, which is often slow and unpredictable. 8 Table of Contents In some instances, customers rely on specific funding appropriations to purchase our products. Curtailments, delays, or reductions in this funding can delay or reduce revenues we had otherwise forecasted to receive. In addition, funding difficulties experienced by schools or colleges can cause those institutions to be more resistant to price increases in our products, compared to other businesses that might better be able to pass on price increases to their customers. The growth of our business depends on continued investment by public school systems in interactive educational technology and products. Changes to funding of public school systems can slow this type of investment and adversely affect our revenues and market opportunities. Competition in our industry is intense and growing, which could adversely affect our performance. Our industry is intensely competitive, rapidly evolving, and subject to technological change. We compete primarily against organizations offering educational and training software and services, including comprehensive curriculum software publishers, companies providing single-title retail products, and Internet content and service providers. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us. The demand for e-learning products and services has grown significantly with the advent of on-line educational institutions, improvements in Internet access and reductions in the cost of technology. While this growing demand presents opportunities for us, it also results in the addition or consolidation of competitors. Increased competition in our industry could result in price reductions, reduced operating margins, or loss of market share, which could seriously harm our business, cash flows, and operating results. Risks Relating to Our Company We have made significant changes to our sales organization and personnel in fiscal 2005 and 2006 which, along with other changes, have resulted in low sales productivity. If we are unable to stabilize and increase the productivity of our sales organization in fiscal year 2007, our revenues and profitability will be adversely affected. In fiscal years 2005 and 2006, we implemented significant changes to our sales organization and processes that resulted in a high percentage of new account managers for most of fiscal year 2006. In addition, we have placed greater emphasis in our sales efforts on expanding beyond our traditional customer base to larger school districts and expanded applications of our products. These changes in personnel, products and target customers negatively affected sales productivity during the year. While we believe these changes were necessary for the long-term success of our sales and marketing efforts, they may continue to negatively affect our sales performance in fiscal year 2007 or beyond. If we are unable to retain our sales personnel and enhance their productivity, it will have an adverse affect on customer relationships, revenues and our ability to become profitable. The success of our long-term strategy is dependent on growth in market acceptance of interactive educational technology as an alternative to traditional supplemental materials used in the classroom. If such acceptance does not occur, we will not recover investments made in these products and our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected. Historically, our products have been sold to schools primarily as credit recovery and remedial learning solutions. These solutions are generally delivered to students who require extra learning activities outside of the traditional classroom setting. The business strategy we implemented late in fiscal year 2005 resulted in the expansion of our software products beyond 9 Table of Contents these traditional applications. As a result, significant investments have been, and will continue to be made in software products targeted for use by teachers and students as supplemental materials in on-grade level classroom applications. Traditionally, these supplemental materials consist of print and other materials purchased by schools or created by the instructor to supplement primary classroom materials such as text books. Broader acceptance of technology products, like those sold by the Company, for use as supplemental classroom materials may not occur due to a number of factors, including: • some teachers may be reluctant to change customary classroom teaching practices to use interactive educational technology; • we may be unable to continue to demonstrate improvements in academic performance in classrooms that use our educational software for these purposes; and • teacher, parent, and student preferences for interactive educational technology are subject to changes in popular entertainment and educational theory. As a result, there are no assurances that our revenues from these products will grow to levels necessary to earn an acceptable return on the related investments. This could have a material, adverse affect on our future revenues and ability to become profitable. The success of our business model is dependent on growth in market acceptance of online, subscription products delivered over the Internet. If this acceptance does not grow or is otherwise diminished, our revenues will continue to decline and we may never become profitable. Currently our products can be purchased by customers on a perpetual license basis for installation in their own computing environment, or on a subscription basis via access to our hosted computer facilities over the Internet. The business strategy we implemented late in fiscal year 2005 resulted in a shift in our new product marketing and development to products which will only be delivered on a subscription basis via Internet access to our hosted computer facilities. This transition to a subscription-based business model will continue to limit our revenue growth in the near term as one-time license fee revenues are replaced with recurring, subscription-based revenues. Longer term, our ability to generate revenue growth and to become profitable is dependent on significant growth of subscription license fees on Internet-based products. Market acceptance of software products delivered over the Internet can be negatively affected by factors such as customers’ confidentiality concerns with regard to student information that is stored outside of their controlled computing environments, existing investments in owned courseware, technology infrastructure, and related personnel, customer preferences with regard to perpetual licenses vs. annual subscription decisions, and availability, reliability and security of access to the Internet within a school district. If we are unable to substantially increase revenues from online subscription products, we will be unable to execute our current business model. As a result, we may need to reevaluate that business model which may affect our ability to achieve profitability. The success of our product investment strategy and our ability to remain competitive against companies with access to larger amounts of capital is dependent on our ability to maintain our cost-effective off-shore development resources. If we are unable to do so, we would experience significant product delays and increases in product development costs which would adversely affect our strategy, competitive position, revenues and profitability. 10 Table of Contents Late in 2005, we made significant changes to our product development strategy by placing a larger emphasis on off-shore development resources. More than 40% of our total product development and maintenance spending in fiscal year 2006 was incurred on these resources. We believe this strategy provides us greater flexibility, cost savings, and a greater return on our development investments, and is critical to our ability to quickly transition our products to a subscription-based business model, respond quickly to market changes and to compete against companies with access to larger amounts of capital than we have. However, this dependence introduces risks common to many outsourcing relationships. These risks include the supplier’s ability to maintain sufficient capacity, control costs, and hire, train, and retain qualified resources, as well as risks associated with our limited direct control and physical access to these resources. Our supplier agreements contain provisions intended to limit some of these risks; however, there can be no assurance that they will be effective at doing so. If our supplier relationships are suddenly and adversely affected, it would cause significant product delays and increased development costs which would have a material negative effect on our competitive position, revenues and profitability. Our future success is dependent on Internet technology developments, our ability to adapt to these and other technological changes and to meet evolving industry standards. Our ability to execute our strategy of delivering our products on a subscription basis over the Internet and generating the related expected revenues is dependent on the development and maintenance of Internet technology as well as our ability to adapt our solutions to this technology. We may encounter difficulties responding to these and other technological changes that could delay our introduction of products and services. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological change and obsolescence, frequent product introduction, and evolving industry standards. Our future success will, to a significant extent, depend on our ability to enhance our existing products, develop and introduce new products, satisfy an expanded range of customer needs, and achieve market acceptance. We may not have sufficient resources to make the necessary investments to develop and implement the technological advances required to maintain our competitive position. Our business is seasonal, and until we complete our planned transition to subscription-based products, our business will be difficult to predict. As a result, we will continue to experience unexpected fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and cash flows which may adversely affect our stock price and the implementation of our strategy. Until we complete our transition to subscription-based products, we expect sales of perpetual license products to continue to account for a meaningful amount of our revenues. As a result, our operating results will continue to be difficult to predict and may fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter due to factors such as the size, timing, and product mix of license vs. subscription orders. In addition, public school budget cycles result in purchases that have historically been concentrated in the last two quarters of our fiscal year. Accordingly, our annual operating performance can be materially and adversely affected if operational performance factors such as sales productivity and new product introductions do not align with these purchasing patterns. If such annual results are not achieved we may have to delay or adjust components of our strategy implementation which may affect our ability to achieve profitability. We rely on statistical studies to demonstrate the effectiveness of our products. 11 Table of Contents We rely on statistical studies to demonstrate that our curriculum-based educational software improves student achievement and believe that these studies accurately reflect the performance of our products. However, these studies involve risks such as limited sample sizes, which yield results that may not be representative of the general population of students who use our products; dependence on cooperation from students and other participants, potentially resulting in inaccurate or incomplete responses that could distort results; the application of different methodologies and data collection techniques by schools studying our products, making results difficult to aggregate and compare; and a biased or unreliable view of the results of these studies because, in some cases, we facilitate the collection and analysis of data, and select and pay researchers to conduct, aggregate, and/or present the results of some of these studies. Misuse or misappropriation of our proprietary rights or inadvertent infringement by us on the rights of others could adversely affect our results of operations. We regard many of our intellectual property rights as essential to our business. We rely on a combination of the laws of copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets, as well as license agreements, employment and employment termination agreements, third-party non-disclosure agreements, and other methods to protect our proprietary rights. We enforce our intellectual property rights when we become aware of any infringements or potential infringements and believe they warrant such action. If we were unsuccessful in our ability to protect these rights, our operating results could be adversely affected. Although we believe our products and services have been independently developed and that none of our products or services infringes on the rights of others, third parties may assert infringement claims against us in the future. We may be required to modify our products, services or technologies or obtain a license to permit our continued use of those rights. We may not be able to do so in a timely manner or upon reasonable terms and conditions. Failure to do so could harm our business and operating results. We have a number of technological mechanisms to prevent or inhibit unauthorized copying of our software products and generally require the execution of a written license agreement, which restricts use and copying of our software products. However, if such copying or misuse were to occur to any substantial degree, our operating results could be adversely affected. Claims relating to data collection from our user base and content available on or accessible from our web sites may subject us to liabilities and additional expense. We currently utilize the names of teachers and students who are registering for our online subscription products for purposes of accessing our web sites, and may in the future collect other personal information relating to students, teachers, and parents. As a result, we may be exposed to claims for misuses of information collected from our users, such as for unauthorized marketing purposes, and we could face additional expenses to analyze and comply with increasing regulation in this area. The Federal Trade Commission, for example, has enacted regulations governing collection of personal information from children under the age of thirteen and is expected to issue and enforce additional regulations in this area. We could also be subject to claims relating to content that is published on our web sites or that is accessible from our network through links to other web sites. In addition to subjecting us to potential liability, claims of this type could require us to change our web sites in a manner that could be less attractive to our customers and divert our financial and development resources. 12 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 