Risk Factors—“Government programs or private insurers may limit, reduce or make retroactive adjustments to reimbursement amounts or rates,” “We may become subject to billing investigations by federal and state government authorities” and “The healthcare industry is highly regulated, and government authorities may determine that we have failed to comply with applicable laws or regulations.” In addition, Medicaid, Medicare and other government healthcare programs (such as the TRICARE program) are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, administrative rulings, interpretations and determinations, requirements for utilization review and new governmental funding restrictions, all of which may materially increase or decrease program payments as well as affect the cost of providing services and the timing of payments to providers. Moreover, because these programs generally provide for reimbursements on a fee-schedule basis rather than on a charge-related basis, we generally cannot increase our revenue by increasing the amount we charge for our services. To the extent our costs increase, we may not be able to recover our increased costs from these programs, and cost containment measures and market changes in non-governmental insurance plans have generally restricted our ability to recover, or shift to non-governmental payors, these increased costs. In attempts to limit federal and state spending, there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of proposals to limit or reduce Medicaid and Medicare reimbursement for various services. Our business may be significantly and adversely affected by any such changes in reimbursement policies and other legislative initiatives aimed at reducing healthcare costs associated with Medicaid, Medicare and other government healthcare programs. 17 Table of Contents Our business also could be adversely affected by reductions in or limitations of reimbursement amounts or rates under these government programs, reductions in funding of these programs or elimination of coverage for certain individuals or treatments under these programs. Antitrust The healthcare industry is subject to close antitrust scrutiny. In recent years, the Federal Trade Commission (the “FTC”), the DOJ, and state Attorneys General have increasingly taken steps to review and, in some cases, take enforcement action against, business conduct and acquisitions in the healthcare industry. Violations of antitrust laws may be punishable by substantial penalties, including significant monetary fines, civil penalties, criminal sanctions, consent decrees and injunctions prohibiting certain activities or requiring divestiture or discontinuance of business operations. Any of these penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. HIPAA and Other Privacy Laws Numerous federal and state laws and regulations govern the collection, dissemination, use and confidentiality of patient health information, including the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) and its implementing regulations, violations of which are punishable by monetary fines, civil penalties and, in some cases, criminal sanctions. As part of our medical record keeping, third-party billing, research and other services, we and our affiliated practices collect and maintain patient health information. Pursuant to HIPAA, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) has adopted standards to protect the privacy and security of individually identifiable health information, known as the Privacy Standards and Security Standards. HHS’s Privacy Standards became effective in 2003 and apply to medical records and other individually identifiable health information in any form, whether electronic, paper or oral, that is used or disclosed by healthcare providers, hospitals, health plans and healthcare clearinghouses, which are known as covered entities. We have implemented privacy policies and procedures, including training programs, designed to be compliant with the HIPAA Privacy Standards. HHS’s Security Standards became effective in 2005 and require healthcare providers to implement administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect the integrity, confidentiality and availability of individually identifiable health information that is electronically received, maintained or transmitted (including between us and our affiliated practices). We have implemented security policies, procedures and systems designed to facilitate compliance with the HIPAA Security Standards. In February 2009, Congress enacted the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (“HITECH”) Act as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. Among other changes to the law governing patient health information, HITECH strengthens and expands HIPAA, increases penalties for violations, gives patients new rights to restrict uses and disclosures of their health information, and imposes a number of privacy and security requirements directly on our business associates, which are third-parties that perform functions or services for us or on our behalf. Specifically, HITECH requires covered entities to report any unauthorized use or disclosure of individually identifiable health information, known as a breach, to the affected individuals, HHS, and depending on the size of the breach, the media for the affected market. HITECH also authorizes state attorneys general to bring civil actions in response to violations of HIPAA that threaten the privacy of state residents. As a result, we have made revisions to our privacy policies and procedures designed to be compliant with the new HITECH Act requirements. In addition to the federal HIPAA and HITECH requirements, numerous other state and some federal laws protect the confidentiality of patient information, including state medical privacy laws, state social security number protection laws, human subjects research laws and federal and state consumer protection laws. In some cases, state laws are more protective than HIPAA and therefore, are not preempted by HIPAA. 18 Table of Contents Environmental Regulations Our healthcare operations generate medical waste that must be disposed of in compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws, rules and regulations. Our office-based operations are subject to compliance with various other environmental laws, rules and regulations. Such compliance does not, and we anticipate that such compliance will not, materially affect our capital expenditures, financial position or results of operations. Compliance Plan We have adopted a compliance plan that reflects our commitment to complying with laws and regulations applicable to our business and meeting our ethical obligations in conducting our business (the “Compliance Plan”). We believe our Compliance Plan provides a solid framework to meet this commitment and our obligations under the Corporate Integrity Agreement, including: • a Chief Compliance Officer who reports to the Board of Directors on a regular basis; • a Compliance Committee consisting of our senior executives; • a formal internal audit function, including a Director of Internal Audit who reports to the Audit Committee on a regular basis; • our Code of Conduct, which is applicable to our employees, independent contractors, officers and directors; • our Code of Professional Conduct—Finance, which is applicable to our finance personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer (who is also our Chief Accounting Officer), Vice President of Accounting and Finance and Controller; • a disclosure program that includes a mechanism to enable individuals to disclose to the Chief Compliance Officer or any person who is not in the disclosing individual’s chain of command, issues or questions believed by the individual to be a potential violation of criminal, civil, or administrative laws; • an organizational structure designed to integrate our compliance objectives into our corporate, regional and practice levels; and • education, monitoring and corrective action programs designed to establish methods to promote the understanding of our Compliance Plan and adherence to its requirements. The foundation of our Compliance Plan is our Code of Conduct, which is intended to be a comprehensive statement of the ethical and legal standards governing the daily activities of our employees, affiliated professionals, independent contractors, officers and directors. All our personnel are required to abide by, and are given thorough education regarding, our Code of Conduct. In addition, all employees and affiliated professionals are expected to report incidents that they believe in good faith may be in violation of our Code of Conduct. We maintain a toll-free helpline to permit individuals to report compliance concerns on an anonymous basis and obtain answers to questions about our Code of Conduct. Our Compliance Plan, including our Code of Conduct, is administered by our Chief Compliance Officer with oversight by our Chief Executive Officer, Compliance Committee and Board of Directors. Copies of our Code of Conduct and our Code of Professional Conduct—Finance are available on our website, www.mednax.com. Our internet website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not incorporated into or deemed a part of this Form 10-K. Any amendments or waivers to our Code of Professional Conduct—Finance will be promptly disclosed on our website following the date of any such amendment or waiver. GOVERNMENT INVESTIGATIONS In July 2007, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors concluded a comprehensive review of our historical practices related to the granting of stock options. At the commencement of the review, we voluntarily 19 Table of Contents contacted the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) regarding the Audit Committee’s review and subsequently the SEC commenced a formal investigation into our stock option granting practices. In March 2009, we reached a settlement with the SEC with respect to its investigation by consenting to the entry of a permanent injunction against future violations of the anti-fraud, reporting, books and records, and internal accounting control provisions of the federal securities laws. The settlement did not require the payment of any civil penalty, fine or money damages and resolved completely the SEC’s investigation into this matter. In connection with the Audit Committee’s review, we also had discussions with the U.S. Attorney’s office for the Southern District of Florida concerning the matters covered by the review and, in response to a subpoena, provided the office with various documents and information related to our stock option granting practices. Although we intend to continue full cooperation with the U.S. Attorney’s office, we cannot predict the outcome of this matter. In September 2006, we completed a final settlement agreement with the Department of Justice and a relator who initiated a “qui tam” complaint against us relating to our billing practices for services reimbursed by Medicaid, the Federal Employees Health Benefit program, and the United States Department of Defense’s TRICARE program for military dependents and retirees (the “Federal Settlement Agreement”). In February 2007, we completed separate state settlement agreements with each state Medicaid program involved in the settlement (the “State Settlement Agreements”). Under the terms of the Federal Settlement Agreement and State Settlement Agreements, we paid $25.1 million to the federal government and participating state Medicaid programs in connection with our billing for neonatal services provided from January 1996 through December 1999. As part of the Federal Settlement Agreement, we are under a five-year Corporate Integrity Agreement with the OIG. The Corporate Integrity Agreement acknowledges the existence of our comprehensive Compliance Plan, which provides for policies and procedures aimed at promoting our adherence with FHC Program requirements and requires us to maintain the Compliance Plan in full operation for the term of the Corporate Integrity Agreement. See “Government Regulation—Compliance Plan.” In addition, the Corporate Integrity Agreement requires, among other things, that we must comply with the following integrity obligations during the term of the Corporate Integrity Agreement: • maintaining a Chief Compliance Officer and Compliance Committee to administer our compliance with FHC Program requirements, our Compliance Plan and the Corporate Integrity Agreement; • maintaining a Code of Conduct for our officers, directors, employees, contractors, subcontractors, agents, or other persons who provide patient care items or services (the “Covered Persons”); • maintaining written policies and procedures regarding the operation of the Compliance Plan and our compliance with FHC Program requirements; • providing general compliance training to the Covered Persons as well as specific training to the Covered Persons who perform coding functions relating to claims for reimbursement from any FHC Program; • engaging an independent review organization to perform annual reviews of samples of claims from multiple hospital units to assist us in assessing and evaluating our coding, billing, and claims-submission practices; • maintaining a Disclosure Program that includes a mechanism to enable individuals to confidentially disclose issues or questions believed by the individual to be a potential violation of criminal, civil, or administrative laws; • not hiring or, if employed, removing from our business operations which are related to or compensated, in whole or part, by FHC Programs, persons (i) convicted of a criminal offense related to the provision of healthcare items or services or (ii) ineligible to participate in FHC Programs or Federal procurement or non-procurement programs; 20 Table of Contents • notifying the OIG of (i) new investigations or legal proceedings by a governmental entity or its agents involving an allegation that the Company has committed a crime or has engaged in fraudulent activities, (ii) matters that a reasonable person would consider a probable violation of criminal, civil or administrative laws applicable to any FHC Program for which penalties or exclusion may be imposed, and (iii) the purchase, sale, closure, establishment, or relocation of any facility furnishing items or services that are reimbursed under FHC Programs; • reporting and returning overpayments received from FHC Programs; • submitting reports to the OIG regarding our compliance with the Corporate Integrity Agreement; and • maintaining for inspection, for a period of six years from the effective date, all documents and records relating to reimbursement from the FHC Programs and compliance with the Corporate Integrity Agreement. Failure to comply with our duties under the Corporate Integrity Agreement could result in substantial monetary penalties and in the case of a material breach, could even result in our being excluded from participating in FHC Programs. We believe that we were in compliance with the Corporate Integrity Agreement as of December 31, 2009. We expect that additional audits, inquiries and investigations from government authorities and agencies will continue to occur in the ordinary course of business. Such audits, inquiries and investigations and their ultimate resolutions, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our common stock. OTHER LEGAL PROCEEDINGS In the ordinary course of our business, we become involved in pending and threatened legal actions and proceedings, most of which involve claims of medical malpractice related to medical services provided by our affiliated physicians. Our contracts with hospitals generally require us to indemnify them and their affiliates for losses resulting from the negligence of our affiliated physicians. We may also become subject to other lawsuits which could involve large claims and significant defense costs. We believe, based upon a review of pending actions and proceedings, that the outcome of such legal actions and proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The outcome of such actions and proceedings, however, cannot be predicted with certainty and an unfavorable resolution of one or more of them could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our common stock. Although we currently maintain liability insurance coverage intended to cover professional liability and certain other claims, we cannot assure that our insurance coverage will be adequate to cover liabilities arising out of claims asserted against us in the future where the outcomes of such claims are unfavorable to us. With respect to professional liability risk, we self-insure a significant portion of this risk through our wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary. Liabilities in excess of our insurance coverage, including coverage for professional liability and certain other claims, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Professional and General Liability Coverage.” PROFESSIONAL AND GENERAL LIABILITY COVERAGE We maintain professional and general liability insurance policies with third-party insurers on a claims-made basis, subject to deductibles, self-insured retention limits, policy aggregates, exclusions, and other restrictions, in accordance with standard industry practice. We believe that our insurance coverage is appropriate based upon our claims experience and the nature and risks of our business. However, we cannot assure that any pending or future claim will not be successful or if successful will not exceed the limits of available insurance coverage. 21 Table of Contents Our business entails an inherent risk of claims of medical malpractice against our affiliated physicians and us. We contract and pay premiums for professional liability insurance that indemnifies us and our affiliated healthcare professionals on a claims-made basis for losses incurred related to medical malpractice litigation. Professional liability coverage is required in order for our affiliated physicians to maintain hospital privileges. Our self-insured retention under our professional liability insurance program is maintained through a wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary. We record estimates in our Consolidated Financial Statements for our liabilities for self-insured retention amounts and claims incurred but not reported based on an actuarial valuation using historical loss information, claim emergence patterns and various actuarial assumptions. Liabilities for claims incurred but not reported are not discounted. Because many factors can affect historical and future loss patterns, the determination of an appropriate reserve involves complex, subjective judgment, and actual results may vary significantly from estimates. If the self-insured retention amounts and other amounts that we are actually required to pay materially exceed the estimates that have been reserved, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. EMPLOYEES AND PROFESSIONALS UNDER CONTRACT In addition to the 1,484 practicing physicians affiliated with us as of December 31, 2009, we employed or contracted with 1,424 other clinical professionals, including advanced practice nurses, and 2,726 other full-time and part-time employees. GEOGRAPHIC COVERAGE We provide services in 33 states, including Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Indiana, Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Michigan, Missouri, Montana, Nevada, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Virginia, Washington and West Virginia, and Puerto Rico. During 2009, approximately 56% of our net patient service revenue was generated by operations in our five largest states. Our operations in Texas accounted for approximately 24% of our net patient service revenue for the same period. Although we continue to seek to diversify the geographic scope of our operations, primarily through acquisitions of physician group practices, we may not be able to implement successfully or realize the expected benefits of any of these initiatives. Adverse changes or conditions affecting states in which our operations are concentrated, such as healthcare reforms, changes in laws and regulations, reduced Medicaid or Medicare reimbursements, an increase in the income level required to qualify for government healthcare programs or government investigations, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. SERVICE MARKS We have registered the service marks “Pediatrix Medical Group and Design,” “Obstetrix Medical Group and Design,” “Pediatrix University,” “Pediatrix University-A University Without Walls,” “SoundGene and Design,” and the baby design logo, among others, with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. In addition, we have pending applications to register the service mark “MEDNAX National Medical Group” and the MEDNAX design logo. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our annual proxy statements, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those statements and reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge and may be printed out through our Internet website, www.mednax.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our proxy statements and reports may also be obtained directly from the SEC’s Internet website at www.sec.gov or from the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling 1-800-SEC-0330. Our Internet website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not incorporated into or deemed a part of this Form 10-K. 22 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a number of factors that could materially affect future developments and performance. In addition to factors affecting our business that have been described elsewhere in this Form 10-K, any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our common stock. The continued downturn in the United States economy could have an adverse effect on our business. The United States is continuing to experience an economic slowdown. The number of unemployed workers is significant and credit and capital markets have been affected in the downturn. During 2009, our business continued to be affected by a shift toward government-sponsored healthcare programs. In 2008, our business was also affected by lower neonatal intensive care patient volumes. If economic conditions do not improve or deteriorate further, there could be additional shifts toward government-sponsored programs and patient volumes could decline. These conditions could also lead to additional increases in the number of unemployed workers and a decline in the number of private employers that offer healthcare insurance coverage to their employees. Employers that do offer healthcare coverage may increase the required contributions from employees to pay for their coverage and increase patient responsibility amounts. As a consequence, the number of patients who participate in government-sponsored programs or are uninsured could increase. Payments received from government-sponsored programs are substantially less than payments received from managed care and other third-party payors. A payor mix shift from managed care and other third-party payors to government payors may result in an increase in our estimated provision for contractual adjustments and uncollectibles and a corresponding decrease in our net patient service revenue. Further increases in the government component of our payor mix at the expense of other third-party payors could result in a significant reduction in our average reimbursement rates. In addition, many states are continuing to experience lower than anticipated revenue and are facing significant budget shortfalls. These shortfalls could lead to reduced or delayed funding for state Medicaid programs and, in turn, reduced or delayed reimbursement for physician services. Although in the recent past, the federal government has provided temporary funds to assist states with these Medicaid programs, there can be no assurance that there will be similar funding in the future. Potential disruptions in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect the availability and cost of funds for liquidity requirements and could have an adverse effect on our business. We rely on cash flows from operations and our line of credit to fund financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs, including funds necessary for business acquisitions. We also use letters of credit issued under our line of credit to support our business operations. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets, such as those experienced during the economic downturn, could adversely affect our ability to draw on our line of credit. Our access to funds under the line of credit is dependent on the ability of the banks to meet their funding commitments. Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our business. Any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. Such measures could include deferring business acquisitions and other discretionary uses of cash. New laws, regulations or government policies concerning healthcare reform may have a significant effect on our business. Congress is presently considering legislation to reform the healthcare system in the United States. This legislation is focused on expanding access to healthcare benefits to uninsured and underinsured persons and 23 Table of Contents would effect major changes in the healthcare system. Other proposals have also been considered by Congress and some state legislatures and include the creation of a single government healthcare plan that would cover all citizens, mandated healthcare insurance coverage for all citizens or for all children, other healthcare insurance reforms, Medicare and Medicaid expansion and related reforms, cost controls on physicians and other providers, bundled payments, pay-for-performance, and taxes on physician revenue. We cannot predict, however, if any proposal that has been or will be considered will be adopted or what effect any such legislation will have on us. Changes in healthcare laws or regulations could reduce our revenue, impose additional costs on us, require changes to our operations, or affect our opportunities for continued growth. In February 2009, Congress reauthorized the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (“SCHIP”) through September 2013 and expanded its eligibility coverage. The expansion of SCHIP eligibility could cause patients who otherwise would have participated in private healthcare insurance programs to participate in government-sponsored programs. Additional reform efforts could change the eligibility requirements for Medicaid and for other government-sponsored programs and could increase the number of patients who participate in such programs or the number of uninsured patients. Payments received from government-sponsored programs are substantially less than payments received from managed care and other third-party payors. A payor mix shift from managed care and other third-party payors to government payors may result in an increase in our estimated provision for contractual adjustments and uncollectibles and a corresponding decrease in our net patient service revenue. Further increases in the government component of our payor mix at the expense of other third-party payors could also result in a significant reduction in our average reimbursement rates. Government programs or private insurers may limit, reduce or make retroactive adjustments to reimbursement amounts or rates. A significant portion of our net patient revenue is derived from payments made by government-sponsored healthcare programs, principally Medicaid. These government programs, as well as private insurers, have taken and may continue to take steps, including a movement toward managed care, to control the cost, eligibility for, use and delivery of healthcare services as a result of budgetary constraints and cost containment pressures due to declining economic conditions, rising healthcare costs and for other reasons, including those described above under Item 1. Business—“Government Regulation—Government Reimbursement Requirements.” These government programs and private insurers may attempt other measures to control costs including bundling of services and denial of or reduction in reimbursement for certain services and treatments. As a result, payments from government programs or private payors may decrease significantly. Also, any adjustment in Medicare reimbursement rates may have a detrimental impact on our reimbursement rates not only for Medicare patients but also because Medicaid and other third-party payors often base their reimbursement rates on a percentage of Medicare reimbursement rates. Our business also may be materially affected by limitations on or reductions in reimbursement amounts or rates or elimination of coverage for certain individuals or treatments. Moreover, because government programs generally provide for reimbursements on a fee-schedule basis rather than on a charge-related basis, we generally cannot increase our revenues from these programs by increasing the amount we charge for our services. To the extent our costs increase, we may not be able to recover our increased costs from these programs, and cost containment measures and market changes in non-governmental insurance plans have generally restricted our ability to recover, or shift to non-governmental payors, these increased costs. In addition, funds we receive from third-party payors are subject to audit with respect to the proper billing for physician and ancillary services and, accordingly, our revenue from these programs may be adjusted retroactively. Any retroactive adjustments to our reimbursement amounts could have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our common stock. In addition, Medicare reimbursement rates could be reduced due to formulaic rules. Presently, Medicare pays for all physician services based upon a national fee schedule which contains a list of uniform rates. The payment rates under the fee schedule are determined based on national uniform relative value units for the services provided, a geographic adjustment factor and a conversion factor. The fee schedule is adjusted annually based on a complex formula that is linked in part to the use of services by Medicare beneficiaries and the growth 24 Table of Contents in gross domestic product. Since 2002, this formula has resulted in negative payment updates under the fee schedule and Congress has had to take legislative action to reverse scheduled payment reductions. Unless Congress takes additional legislative action, the fee schedule will be reduced by approximately 21% effective March 1, 2010. Fee reductions will continue to be scheduled annually and will grow to approximately 40% in cumulative reductions by 2016 unless Congress takes action in the future to modify or reform the mechanism by which payment rates are updated. If no action is taken, reductions in the fee schedule could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our common stock. We may become subject to billing investigations by federal and state government authorities. State and federal statutes impose substantial penalties, including civil and criminal fines, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs and imprisonment, on entities or individuals (including any individual corporate officers or physicians deemed responsible) that fraudulently or wrongfully bill governmental or other third-party payors for healthcare services. In addition, federal laws, along with a growing number of state laws, allow a private person to bring a civil action in the name of the government for false billing violations. See Item 1. Business—“Government Regulation—Fraud and Abuse Provisions.” In September 2006, we entered into a settlement agreement with the DOJ that sets forth the terms of a financial settlement related to an investigation by federal and state authorities into our coding and billing practices for the period of time from 1996 through 1999 for neonatal critical care and intensive care services reimbursed by the Medicaid program nationwide, the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program and the TRICARE program. As part of the financial settlement with the DOJ, we entered into the Corporate Integrity Agreement with the OIG for a term of five years. The Corporate Integrity Agreement imposes yearly compliance and audit obligations upon us. We believe that additional audits, inquiries and investigations from government agencies will continue to occur from time to time in the ordinary course of our business, which could result in substantial defense costs to us and a diversion of management’s time and attention. We cannot predict whether any future audits, inquiries or investigations, or the public disclosure of such matters, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our common stock. See Item 1. Business—“Government Investigations.” The healthcare industry is highly regulated, and government authorities may determine that we have failed to comply with applicable laws or regulations. The healthcare industry and physicians’ medical practices, including the healthcare and other services that we and our affiliated physicians provide, are subject to extensive and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations, compliance with which imposes substantial costs on us. Of particular importance are: • federal laws (including the federal False Claims Act) that prohibit entities and individuals from knowingly or recklessly making claims to Medicaid, Medicare and other government programs that contain false or fraudulent information or from improperly retaining known overpayments; • a provision of the Social Security Act, commonly referred to as the “anti-kickback” law, that prohibits the knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any bribe, kickback, rebate or other remuneration, in cash or in kind, in return for the referral or recommendation of patients for items and services covered, in whole or in part, by federal healthcare programs, such as Medicaid and Medicare; • a provision of the Social Security Act, commonly referred to as the Stark Law, that, subject to limited exceptions, prohibits physicians from referring Medicare patients to an entity for the provision of certain “designated health services” if the physician or a member of such physician’s immediate family has a direct or indirect financial relationship (including a compensation arrangement) with the entity; • similar state law provisions pertaining to anti-kickback, fee splitting, self-referral and false claims issues, which typically are not limited to relationships involving federal payors; 25 Table of Contents • provisions of HIPAA that prohibit knowingly and willfully executing a scheme or artifice to defraud a healthcare benefit program or falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any material false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services; • state laws that prohibit general business corporations from practicing medicine, controlling physicians’ medical decisions or engaging in certain practices, such as splitting fees with physicians; • federal and state laws that prohibit providers from billing and receiving payment from Medicaid or Medicare for services unless the services are medically necessary, adequately and accurately documented and billed using codes that accurately reflect the type and level of services rendered; • federal and state laws pertaining to the provision of services by non-physician practitioners, such as advanced nurse practitioners, physician assistants and other clinical professionals, physician supervision of such services and reimbursement requirements that may be dependent on the manner in which the services are provided and documented; and • federal laws that impose civil administrative sanctions for, among other violations, inappropriate billing of services to federally funded healthcare programs, inappropriately reducing hospital care lengths of stay for such patients, or employing individuals who are excluded from participation in federally funded healthcare programs. In addition, we believe that our business will continue to be subject to increasing regulation, the scope and effect of which we cannot predict. See Item 1. Business—“Government Regulation.” We may in the future become the subject of regulatory or other investigations or proceedings, and our interpretations of applicable laws, rules and regulations may be challenged. For example, regulatory authorities or other parties may assert that our arrangements with our affiliated professional contractors constitute fee splitting or the corporate practice of medicine and seek to invalidate these arrangements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our common stock. See Item 1. Business—“Government Regulation—Fee Splitting; Corporate Practice of Medicine.” Regulatory authorities or other parties also could assert that our relationships, including fee arrangements, among our affiliated professional contractors, hospital clients or referring physicians violate the anti-kickback, fee splitting or self-referral laws and regulations. See Item 1. Business—“Government Regulation—Fraud and Abuse Provisions” and “—Government Reimbursement Requirements.” Such investigations, proceedings and challenges could result in substantial defense costs to us and a diversion of management’s time and attention. In addition, violations of these laws are punishable by monetary fines, civil and criminal penalties, exclusion from participation in government-sponsored healthcare programs, and forfeiture of amounts collected in violation of such laws and regulations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our common stock. Federal and state laws that protect the privacy and security of patient health information may increase our costs and limit our ability to collect and use that information and subject us to penalties if we are unable to fully comply with such laws. Numerous federal and state laws and regulations govern the collection, dissemination, use, security and confidentiality of individually identifiable health information. These laws include: • Provisions of HIPAA that limit how healthcare providers may use and disclose individually identifiable health information, provide certain rights to individuals with respect to that information and impose certain security requirements; • The federal HITECH Act, which strengthens and expands the HIPAA Privacy Standards and Security Standards; 26 Table of Contents • Other federal and state laws restricting the use and protecting the privacy and security of patient information, many of which are not preempted by HIPAA; • Federal and state consumer protection laws; and • Federal and state laws regulating the conduct of research with human subjects. As part of our medical record keeping, third-party billing, research and other services, we collect and maintain patient health information in paper and electronic format. New patient health information standards, whether implemented pursuant to HIPAA, the HITECH Act, congressional action or otherwise, could have a significant effect on the manner in which we handle healthcare-related data and communicate with payors, and compliance with these standards could impose significant costs on us or limit our ability to offer services, thereby negatively impacting the business opportunities available to us. Due to the very recent enactment of HITECH, we are not able to predict the extent of its impact on our business. If we do not comply with existing or new laws and regulations related to patient health information we could be subject to monetary fines, civil penalties or criminal sanctions. Government authorities or other parties may assert that our business practices violate antitrust laws. The healthcare industry is subject to close antitrust scrutiny. In recent years, the FTC, the DOJ and state Attorneys General have taken increasing steps to review and, in some cases, take enforcement action against business conduct and acquisitions in the healthcare industry. Violations of antitrust laws may be punishable by substantial penalties, including significant monetary fines, civil penalties, criminal sanctions, and consent decrees and injunctions prohibiting certain activities or requiring divestiture or discontinuance of business operations. Any of these penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our affiliated physicians may not appropriately record or document services they provide. Our affiliated physicians are responsible for maintaining sufficient supporting documentation for the services they provide. We use this information to seek reimbursement for their services from third-party payors. If our physicians do not appropriately document, or where applicable, code for their services, we could be subjected to regulatory or criminal investigations or sanctions and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. We may not find suitable acquisition candidates or successfully integrate our acquisitions. Our acquisitions may expose us to greater business risks and could affect our payor mix. We have expanded and intend to continue to seek to expand our presence in new and existing metropolitan areas for us by acquiring established neonatal, maternal-fetal and pediatric cardiology physician practice groups, other complementary pediatric subspecialty physician groups and anesthesia care practices. We made our first acquisition of an anesthesia care practice in 2007, acquired two additional practices in 2008 and acquired one additional practice in 2009. Accordingly, this type of physician service is a relatively new specialty for our company. Our acquisition strategy involves numerous risks and uncertainties, including: • We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or strategic opportunities or implement successfully or realize the expected benefits of any suitable opportunities. In addition, we compete for acquisitions with other potential acquirers, some of which may have greater financial or operational resources than we do. This competition may intensify due to the ongoing consolidation in the healthcare industry, which may increase our acquisition costs. 27 Table of Contents • We may not be able to successfully integrate completed acquisitions, including our recent acquisitions. Integrating completed acquisitions into our existing operations involves numerous short-term and long-term risks, including diversion of our management’s attention, failure to retain key personnel, long-term value of acquired intangible assets and acquisition expenses. In addition, we may be required to comply with laws and regulations that may differ from those of the states in which our operations are currently conducted. • We cannot be certain that any acquired business will continue to maintain its pre-acquisition revenues and growth rates or be financially successful. In addition, we cannot be certain of the extent of any unknown or contingent liabilities of any acquired business, including liabilities for failure to comply with applicable laws, including laws relating to medical malpractice. Generally we obtain indemnification agreements from the sellers of businesses acquired with respect to pre-closing acts, omissions and other similar risks. It is possible that we may seek to enforce indemnification provisions in the future against sellers who may no longer have the financial wherewithal to satisfy their obligations to us. Accordingly, we may incur material liabilities for past activities of acquired businesses. • We could incur or assume indebtedness and issue equity in connection with acquisitions. The issuance of shares of our common stock for an acquisition may result in dilution to our existing shareholders and, depending on the number of shares that we issue, the resale of such shares could affect the trading price of our common stock. • We may acquire businesses that derive a greater portion of their revenue from government-sponsored programs than what we recognize on a consolidated basis. These acquisitions could affect our overall payor mix in future periods. • Acquisitions of practices in anesthesia care could entail financial and operating risks not fully anticipated. Such acquisitions could divert management’s attention and our resources. • An acquisition could be subject to a challenge under the antitrust laws either before or after it is consummated. Such a challenge could involve substantial legal costs and divert management’s attention and resources and could result in us having to abandon the transaction or make a divestiture. Our employees may not appropriately secure and protect confidential information in their possession. Each of our employees is responsible for the security of the information in our systems and to ensure that private and financial information is kept confidential. Should an employee not follow appropriate security measures it may result in the release of private or confidential financial information. The release of such information could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may not be able to successfully recruit and retain qualified physicians to serve as affiliated physicians or independent contractors. We are dependent upon our ability to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified physicians to service existing units at hospitals and our affiliated practices and expand our business. We compete with many types of healthcare providers, including teaching, research and government institutions and other practice groups, for the services of qualified physicians. We may not be able to continue to recruit new physicians or renew contracts with existing physicians on acceptable terms. If we do not do so, our ability to service existing or new hospital units and staff existing or new office-based practices could be adversely affected. A significant number of our affiliated physicians could leave our affiliated practices or our affiliated professional contractors may be unable to enforce the non-competition covenants of departed physicians. Our affiliated professional contractors usually enter into employment agreements with our affiliated physicians which typically can be terminated without cause by any party upon prior written notice. In addition, 28 Table of Contents substantially all of our affiliated physicians have agreed not to compete within a specified geographic area for a certain period after termination of employment. The law governing non-compete agreements and other forms of restrictive covenants varies from state to state. Although we believe that the non-competition and other restrictive covenants applicable to our affiliated physicians are reasonable in scope and duration and therefore enforceable under applicable state law, courts and arbitrators in some states are reluctant to strictly enforce non-compete agreements and restrictive covenants against physicians. If a substantial number of our affiliated physicians leave our affiliated practices or our affiliated professional contractors are unable to enforce the non-competition covenants in the employment agreements, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We cannot predict whether a court or arbitration panel would enforce these covenants. We may be subject to medical malpractice and other lawsuits not covered by insurance. Our business entails an inherent risk of claims of medical malpractice against our affiliated physicians and us. We may also be subject to other lawsuits which may involve large claims and significant defense costs. Although we currently maintain liability insurance coverage intended to cover professional liability and other claims, there can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will be adequate to cover liabilities arising out of claims asserted against us where the outcomes of such claims are unfavorable to us. Generally, we self-insure our liabilities to pay retention amounts for professional liability matters through a wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary. Liabilities in excess of our insurance coverage, including coverage for professional liability and other claims, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our common stock. See Item 1. Business—“Other Legal Proceedings” and “Professional and General Liability Coverage.” The reserves that we have established in respect of our professional liability losses are subject to inherent uncertainties and if a deficiency is determined this may lead to a reduction in our net earnings. We have established reserves for losses and related expenses, which represent estimates involving actuarial projections, at a given point in time, of our expectations of the ultimate resolution and administration of costs of losses incurred with respect to professional liability risks for the amount of risk retained by us. Insurance reserves are inherently subject to uncertainty. Our reserve estimates are based on actuarial valuations using historical claims, demographic factors, industry trends, severity and exposure factors and other actuarial assumptions. The estimates of projected ultimate losses are developed at least annually. Our reserves could be significantly affected should current and future occurrences differ from historical claim trends and expectations. While claims are monitored closely when estimating reserves, the complexity of the claims and wide range of potential outcomes often hampers timely adjustments to the assumptions used in these estimates. Actual losses and related expenses may deviate, perhaps substantially, from the reserve estimates reflected in our financial statements. If our estimated reserves are determined to be inadequate, we will be required to increase reserves at the time the deficiency is determined. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—“Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—Professional Liability Coverage.” We may write-off intangible assets, such as goodwill. Our intangible assets, which consist primarily of goodwill related to our acquisitions, are subject to annual impairment testing. Under current accounting standards, goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis and we may be subject to impairment losses as circumstances change after an acquisition. If we record an impairment loss related to our goodwill, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the year in which the impairment is recorded. We may not effectively manage our growth. We have experienced rapid growth in our business and number of our employees and affiliated physicians in recent years which places significant demands on our financial, operational and management resources. Continued 29 Table of Contents rapid growth may impair our ability to provide our services efficiently and to manage our employees adequately. While we are taking steps to manage our growth, our future results of operations could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to do so effectively. We may not be able to maintain effective and efficient information systems. Our operations are dependent on uninterrupted performance of our information systems. Failure to maintain reliable information systems or disruptions in our information systems could cause disruptions in our business operations, including errors and delays in billings and collections, difficulty satisfying requirements under hospital contracts, disputes with patients and payors, violations of patient privacy and confidentiality requirements and other regulatory requirements, increased administrative expenses and other adverse consequences, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our quarterly results will likely fluctuate from period to period. We have historically experienced and expect to continue to experience quarterly fluctuations in net patient service revenue and net income. For example, we typically experience negative cash flow from operations in the first quarter of each year, principally as a result of bonus payments to affiliated physicians. In addition, a significant number of our employees and associated professional contractors (primarily affiliated physicians) exceed the level of taxable wages for social security during the first and second quarters. As a result, we incur a significantly higher payroll tax burden and our net income is lower during those quarters. Moreover, a lower number of calendar days are present in the first and second quarters of the year as compared to the remainder of the year. Because we provide services in the NICU on a 24- hours-a-day basis, 365 days a year, any reduction in service days will have a corresponding reduction in net patient service revenue. We also have significant fixed operating costs, including costs for our affiliated physicians, and as a result, are highly dependent on patient volume and capacity utilization of our affiliated physicians to sustain profitability. Quarterly results may also be impacted by the timing of acquisitions and any fluctuation in patient volume. As a result, our results of operations for any quarter are not indicative of results of operations for any future period or full fiscal year. The value of our common stock may fluctuate. There has been significant volatility in the market price of securities of healthcare companies generally that we believe in many cases has been unrelated to operating performance. In addition, we believe that certain factors, such as legislative and regulatory developments, including announced regulatory investigations, quarterly fluctuations in our actual or anticipated results of operations, lower revenues or earnings than those anticipated by securities analysts, and general economic and financial market conditions, could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. We may not be able to collect reimbursements for our services from third-party payors in a timely manner. A significant portion of our net patient service revenue is derived from reimbursements from various third-party payors, including government-sponsored healthcare plans, private insurance plans and managed care plans, for services provided by our affiliated professional contractors. We are responsible for submitting reimbursement requests to these payors and collecting the reimbursements, and we assume the financial risks relating to uncollectible and delayed reimbursements. In the current healthcare environment, payors continue their efforts to control expenditures for healthcare, including revisions to coverage and reimbursement policies. Due to the nature of our business and our participation in government and private reimbursement programs, we are involved from time to time in inquiries, reviews, audits and investigations by governmental agencies and private payors of our business practices, including assessments of our compliance with coding, billing and documentation requirements. We may be required to repay these agencies or private payors if a finding is made that we were incorrectly reimbursed, or we may be subjected to pre-payment reviews, which can be time-consuming and result 30 Table of Contents in non-payment or delayed payment for the services we provide. We may also experience difficulties in collecting reimbursements because third-party payors may seek to reduce or delay reimbursements to which we are entitled for services that our affiliated physicians have provided. If we are not reimbursed fully and in a timely manner for such services or there is a finding that we were incorrectly reimbursed, our revenues, cash flows and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, declining economic conditions could affect the timeliness and amounts received from our third-party and government payors which would impact our short-term liquidity needs. Hospitals may terminate their agreements with us, our physicians may lose the ability to provide services in hospitals or administrative fees paid to us by hospitals may be reduced. Our net patient service revenue is derived primarily from fee-for-service billings for patient care provided within hospital units by our affiliated physicians and from administrative fees paid to us by hospitals. See Item 1. Business—“Relationships with Our Partners—Hospitals.” Our hospital partners may cancel or not renew their contracts with us, reduce or eliminate our administrative fees in the future, or refuse to pay us our administrative fees if we fail to honor the terms of our agreement. Declining economic conditions could influence future actions of our hospital partners. To the extent that our arrangements with our hospital partners are canceled, or are not renewed or replaced with other arrangements having at least as favorable terms, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, to the extent our affiliated physicians lose their privileges in hospitals or hospitals enter into arrangements with other physicians, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Hospitals could limit our ability to use our management information systems in our units by requiring us to use their own management information systems. Our management information systems, including BabySteps® are used to support our day-to-day operations and ongoing clinical research and business analysis. If a hospital prohibits us from using our own management information systems, it may interrupt the efficient operation of our information systems which, in turn, may limit our ability to operate important aspects of our business, including billing and reimbursement as well as research and education initiatives. This inability to use our management information systems at hospital locations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our industry is already competitive and could become more competitive. The healthcare industry is highly competitive and subject to continual changes in the methods by which services are provided and the manner in which healthcare providers are selected and compensated. Because our operations consist primarily of physician services provided within hospital-based units, we compete with other healthcare services companies and physician groups for contracts with hospitals to provide our services to patients. We also face competition from hospitals themselves to provide our services. Companies in other healthcare industry segments, some of which have greater financial and other resources than ours, may become competitors in providing neonatal, maternal-fetal, pediatric subspecialty care or anesthesia care. We may not be able to continue to compete effectively in this industry, additional competitors may enter metropolitan areas where we operate, and this increased competition may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Unfavorable changes or conditions could occur in the states where our operations are concentrated. A majority of our net patient service revenue in 2009 was generated by our operations in five states. In particular, Texas accounted for approximately 24% of our net patient service revenue in 2009. See Item 1. Business—“Geographic Coverage.” Adverse changes or conditions affecting these particular states, such as healthcare reforms, changes in laws and regulations, reduced Medicaid reimbursements and government 31 Table of Contents investigations, economic conditions and natural disasters may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are dependent upon our key management personnel for our future success. Our success depends to a significant extent on the continued contributions of our key management personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer, Roger J. Medel, M.D., for the management of our business and implementation of our business strategy. The loss of Dr. Medel or other key management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our common stock. Provisions of our articles and bylaws could deter takeover attempts. Our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock and to determine the powers, preferences and rights of these shares without shareholder approval. This preferred stock could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to those of the holders of common stock. The issuance of preferred stock under some circumstances could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control. In addition, provisions in our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws, including those relating to calling shareholder meetings, taking action by written consent and other matters, could render it more difficult or discourage an attempt to obtain control of MEDNAX through a proxy contest or consent solicitation. These provisions could limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay in the future for our shares of common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 