RISK FACTORS Business Strategy—Danka Business Systems PLC (also referred to herein as “Danka” or the “Company”) believes that in order to stay competitive and generate positive earnings and cash flow, we must successfully implement our strategies. In connection with the implementation of our strategies, we have launched, and expect to continue to launch, several operational and strategic initiatives. However, the success of any of these initiatives may not be achieved if: • they are not accepted by our customers; • they do not result in revenue growth, generate cash flow, reduce operating costs or reduce our working capital investments; • we are unable to provide the hardware, software, solutions or services necessary to successfully implement these initiatives; or • we do not maintain adequate levels of liquidity to finance such initiatives. Failure to implement one or more of our strategies and related initiatives could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Operating Earnings—We generated a large operating loss for fiscal year 2005 due to decreasing revenues, higher operating costs, impairment of goodwill and restructuring charges. If we are not able to stabilize our revenues or reduce our operating costs, these operating losses may continue in the future. The operating losses for fiscal year 2005 included $70.9 million and $10.2 million in goodwill impairment and restructuring charges, respectively. The operating losses for fiscal year 2004 included $50.0 million in restructuring charges. As we continue to evaluate our business and strategies, we could incur future operating losses and/or restructuring charges which may materially and adversely affect our operations, financial position, liquidity and results of operations. If we incur operating losses or do not generate sufficient profitability in the future, our growth potential and our ability to execute our business strategy may be limited. In addition, our ability to service our indebtedness may be impaired because we may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to pay principal or interest when due. Restructuring of Operations—We have implemented plans to reduce costs in order to become more competitive within our industry. These cost reduction plans involve, among other things, significant headcount reductions, the exit of certain non-strategic facility locations, the consolidation of many back-office functions into more centralized locations and business process changes. If we fail to successfully implement our cost restructuring plans, including the timely buyout or sublease of vacant facilities, and fail to achieve our other long-term cost reduction goals, we may not reduce costs quickly enough to become competitive within our industry. Additionally, we may lose valuable institutional knowledge, bear the risk of additional costs and expenses and incur a breakdown in our business and operational functions, including certain critical back-office operations, any of which could result in negative consequences to our customer service, our current internal control environment and operating results. Economic Uncertainty—The profitability of our business is susceptible to uncertainties in the global economy. Overall demand for our products and services and their profit margins may decline as a direct result of an economic recession, inflation, interest rates or governmental fiscal policy. As a result, our customers may reduce or delay expenditures for our products and services. Competition—The industry in which we operate is highly competitive. We have competitors in all markets in which we operate, and our competitors include a number of companies worldwide with significant technological, distribution and financial resources. Competition in our industry is based upon many factors, including technology, performance, pricing, quality, reliability, distribution, market coverage, customer service and support and lease and rental financing. In addition, our equipment suppliers have established themselves as direct competitors in many of the areas in which we do business. Besides competition from within the office imaging industry, we are also experiencing competition from other sources as a result of evolving technology, including the development of alternative means of document processing, retention, storage and printing. Our retail equipment operations are in direct competition with local and regional equipment suppliers and dealers, manufacturers, mass merchandisers and wholesale clubs. We have suffered, and may continue to suffer, a reduction of our market share because of the high level of competition in our industry. The intense competition in our industry may result in pressure on the prices and margins that we can obtain for our products and may affect our ability to retain customers, both of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. As our suppliers develop new products, there is no guarantee that they will permit us to distribute such products or that such products will meet our customers’ needs and demands. In addition, some of our principal competitors design and manufacture new technology, which may give them a competitive advantage over us. 4 Table of Contents Furthermore, there is a trend within our industry to offer on-demand pricing where the customer does not buy or lease the equipment. Rather, the customer is only charged for the number of images produced by the equipment. This trend could require us to increase our rental equipment investments in order to remain competitive. Additionally, the competitive environment hinders employee retention, especially in the sales and service areas, which leads to higher turnover of employees and increased compensation expense. Technological Changes—The industry in which we operate is characterized by rapidly changing technology. Technological changes have contributed to declines in our revenues in the past and may continue to do so in the future. For example, the office imaging industry has changed from analog to digital copiers, multi-function peripherals (“MFPs”) and printers. Most of our digital products replaced analog products, which have historically been a significant percentage of our machines in field (“MIF”). Digital copiers and MFPs are more reliable than analog copiers and require less maintenance. Moreover, color printing and copying represents an important and growing part of our industry. We must improve our execution of color equipment sales and meet the demand for color products if we are to maintain and improve our operating performance and our ability to compete. Another industry change that has been fueled by technological changes is the migration of copy volume from traditional stand-alone copiers to network printers. This change allows end users to print distributed documents on printers linked directly to their personal computers as opposed to receiving copies of such documents that were copied on a traditional stand-alone copier. We will need to increasingly provide comprehensive solutions to our customers, such as offering digital copiers, MFPs, software solutions and printers that are directly linked to their networks, in order to remain competitive. Finally, the speed of technological changes may cause us in the future to write down our inventory, including, but not limited to showroom, rental and other equipment and related supplies and parts, including parts and supplies for our TechSource initiative, as a result of obsolescence. In order to remain competitive, we must quickly and effectively respond to changing technology. Otherwise, such developments of technologies in our industry may impair our business, financial condition, results of operations or competitive position. Third Party Financing Arrangements—A large majority of our retail equipment and related sales are financed by third party finance or leasing companies. We have an agreement with General Electric Capital Corporation (or “GECC”), under which GECC has agreed to provide financing to our qualified United States customers to purchase equipment from us. Although we have other financing arrangements in place, GECC finances a significant part of our United States business. GECC has current and prospective lease financing agreements with our competitors. If these agreements result in more favorable terms to our competitors than our current agreement with GECC, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage within the industry in arranging third party financing to our customers, which could negatively affect our operating results. With respect to our customers outside the United States, we have country by country arrangements with various third party finance and leasing companies. Our largest third party financing company in Europe, which is centrally organized, is De Lage Landen Vendor Leasa (“DLL”), a 100% owned subsidiary of The Rabobank. Other third party financing companies that are in place in Europe include ING Group, BNP Paribas and GECC. If we were to breach the covenants or other restrictions in our agreements with one or more of our financing sources, including GECC and our non-U.S. leasing sources, such sources might refuse to provide financing to our customers or exercise other remedies of default. If one or more of our financing sources were to fail to provide financing to our customers, those customers might be unable to purchase equipment from us if we were unable to arrange alternative financing arrangements on similar terms or provide financing ourselves. In addition, if we were unable to arrange financing, we would lose sales, which could negatively affect our operating results. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Other Financing Arrangements—General Electric Capital Corporation”. Information Systems—Our Europe/Australia and non-U.S. Americas operations run on numerous, disparate legacy IT systems that are outdated and incompatible. The operation and coordination of these management information systems and billings systems is labor intensive and expensive. We have determined that we need to upgrade our information systems and have standardized our network infrastructure and email system across Europe/Australia. Oracle has been implemented in Italy and other countries are planned to be upgraded from the existing legacy systems to the latest Oracle releases where possible. In addition, Customer Relationship Management is being implemented in an outsourced model in several countries. The failure to solve our management information system issues in our Europe/Australia operations or any disruption in our business processes when we upgrade our IT systems could materially and adversely affect our operations, internal controls, financial position or results of operations. Disaster Recovery—Our systems in the United States are designed for security and reliability. We regularly back up our information systems and subject them to a virus scan. These efforts are intended to buttress the integrity and security of our information systems and the data stored in them, and to minimize the potential for loss in the event of a disaster, including but not limited to natural disasters or terrorist attacks. During fiscal year 2005, we entered into a hosting agreement with IBM for the management of our U.S. information systems infrastructure. This arrangement has relocated our data center out of Florida to a secure location in Atlanta, Georgia which we believe has provided an additional disaster recovery capability. Our facilities have reserve power generating systems to prevent the loss of power and minimize downtime in the event of shortages; however, should a natural disaster impact our critical U.S. facilities, we may suffer disruption of certain critical support functions. 5 Table of Contents Due to the delayed investment in our information systems in Europe/Australia and non-U.S. Americas operations, we have not properly invested in world-wide disaster recovery systems. In the event that one or more of our business systems in Europe/Australia and non-U.S. Americas operations were to fail, we would be at risk of having our business interrupted by not being able to process or record transactions and by losing valuable business knowledge in the locations where the failure occurred. We are developing a comprehensive disaster recovery plan but until it is implemented, a disaster could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or competitive position. Business Processes and Policies—Our past rapid expansion through acquisitions, past financial difficulties and a historical lack of focus on, and investment in, our information systems have impeded our ability to develop and implement internal controls and business processes consistently and enforce policies effectively. We have identified instances where we do not have adequate processes in place or our business processes and policies have not been properly implemented or followed in the past, which have resulted in, among other things, poor billing and credit practices, weak customer contract management, excessive and undisciplined issuances of customer credits, inaccurate customer data, inconsistent customer contract terms and conditions, inadequate document retention and inconsistent lease classification. While we believe that some of these issues that relate to the U.S. have been addressed with the implementation of new manual internal control procedures and the implementation of our Oracle ERP system, which is configured with better system internal controls. We have not adequately reduced the number of manual processes necessary to run our business and, as a result, have not fully leveraged the new Oracle ERP system. Until we do so, there is no assurance that all of these issues will be completely rectified. See our discussion in Item 9A-Controls and Procedures regarding material weaknesses in our Information Technology General Controls, as well as other business processes and policies. Vendor Relationships—We primarily have relationships with Canon, Ricoh, Toshiba, Nexpress, Kodak and Konica-Minolta. These companies manufacture equipment, parts, supplies and software for resale by us in the markets in which we operate. We also rely on our equipment suppliers for related parts and supplies, vendor rebates and significant levels of vendor financing. Any inability to obtain equipment, parts, supplies or software in the volumes required and at competitive prices from our major vendors, or the loss of any major vendor, or the discontinuation of vendor rebate programs or vendor financing may seriously harm our business because we may not be able to supply those vendors’ products to our customers on a timely basis in sufficient quantities or at all. In addition, we rely on our vendors to effectively respond to changing technology and manufacture new products to meet the demands of evolving customer needs. There is no guarantee that these vendors or any of our other vendors will effectively respond to changing technology, continue to sell their products and services to us, or that they will do so at competitive prices. Other factors, including reduced access to credit by our vendors resulting from economic conditions, may impair our vendors’ ability to effectively respond to changing technology or provide products in a timely manner or at competitive prices. International Scope of Operations—We are incorporated under the laws of England and Wales, and we conduct a significant portion of our business outside of the United States. We generated 55% of our revenue outside the United States during fiscal year 2005. We market office imaging equipment, document solutions and related services and supplies directly to customers in over 20 countries. The international scope of our operations may lead to volatile financial results and difficulties in managing our operations because of, but not limited to, the following: • difficulties and costs of staffing, social responsibility and managing international operations; • currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • potentially adverse tax and tariff consequences; • the burden of complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws; • the impact of business cycles, including potentially longer payment cycles, in any particular region; • the geographic, time zone, language and cultural differences between personnel in different areas of the world; • greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivables in and moving cash out of certain countries; • the need for a significant amount of available cash to fund operations in a number of geographic and economically diverse locations; and • political, social and economic instability in any particular region, including Central America and South America. 6 Table of Contents With respect to our international operations that are experiencing difficulties as described above, we continue to evaluate the viability and future prospects of these businesses. Based on these evaluations, during fiscal year 2005, we exited our operations in Portugal and Russia. Should we decide to downsize or exit any of these other businesses, we could incur costs relating to severance, closure of facilities and write-off of goodwill, and we may also be required to recognize cumulative translation losses and minimum pension liabilities that would reduce our earnings. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Currency Fluctuations—As a multinational company, changes in currency exchange rates affect our revenues, cost of sales and operating expenses. In addition, fluctuations in exchange rates between the United States dollar and the currencies in each of the countries in which we operate affect the results of our operations and the value of the net assets of our non-U.S. operations when reported in United States dollars in our United States financial statements. These fluctuations may negatively impact our results of operations or financial condition or, in some circumstances, may positively impact our results of operations disproportionately to underlying levels of actual growth or improvement in our businesses. The majority of our revenues outside the United States are denominated in either the euro or the British pound sterling. During the quarter ended March 31, 2005, the euro strengthened 0.8% against the United States dollar and the British pound sterling strengthened 1.3% against the United States dollar. During the year ended March 31, 2005, the euro strengthened 7.0% against the United States dollar and the British pound sterling strengthened 9.1% against the United States dollar. These increases against the United States dollar positively impacted our reported revenue, both year-to-date and on a sequential basis. Further, our intercompany loans are subject to fluctuations in exchange rates between the United States dollar and the currencies in each of the countries in which we operate, primarily the euro and the British pound sterling. Based on the outstanding balance of our intercompany loans at March 31, 2005, an increase of 1% in the exchange rate for the euro and British pound sterling versus the U.S. dollar would cause a foreign exchange loss of approximately $0.3 million, while a decrease of 1% in the exchange rate of the euro and the British pound sterling versus the U.S. dollar would cause a foreign exchange gain of approximately $0.3 million. Moreover, we pay for some inventory in euro countries in United States dollars, but we generally invoice our customers in such countries in euros. If the euro weakens against the United States dollar, our operating margins and cash flow may be negatively impacted when we receive payment in euros but we pay our suppliers in United States dollars. We do not currently hedge our exposure to changes in foreign currency. Tax Payments—We are either currently under audit or may be audited in the key jurisdictions in which we operate. While we believe we are adequately reserved for such liabilities, should revenue agencies impose assessments or require payments in excess of those we currently expect to pay, we could be required to record additional liabilities. Additionally, our liquidity could be affected based upon the size and timing of such payments. Indebtedness—At March 31, 2005, we had consolidated long-term indebtedness, including current maturities of long-term debt and notes payable, of $241.8 million which included $64.5 million in principal amount of 10.0% subordinated notes due April 1, 2008 and $175.0 million in principal amount of 11.0% senior notes due June 15, 2010, less unamortized discount of $3.3 million. The subordinated notes accrue interest which is paid every six months on April 1 and October 1 while the senior notes have interest payable every six months on June 15 and December 15. The amount of our indebtedness could have important consequences to us, including the following: • use of a portion of our cash flow to pay interest on our indebtedness will reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, strategic initiatives and other business activities, including keeping pace with the technological, competitive and other changes currently affecting our industry; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • limit our ability in making strategic acquisitions or exploiting business opportunities; and • limit our operational flexibility, including our ability to borrow additional funds or dispose of assets. 7 Table of Contents Debt and Credit Facilities—The indenture governing our senior notes, our $50 million senior secured revolving credit facility with Fleet Capital Corporation (or “Fleet Credit Facility”) and our euro 11.8 million letter of credit facility with ABN AMRO contains covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to: (1) incur additional indebtedness or, in the case of our restricted subsidiaries, issue preferred stock; (2) create liens; (3) pay dividends or make other restricted payments; (4) make certain investments; (5) sell or make certain dispositions of assets or engage in sale and leaseback transactions; (6) engage in transactions with affiliates; (7) engage in certain business activities; and (8) engage in mergers or consolidations. They also restrict the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends, or make other payments to us. In addition, the indenture governing the senior notes may require us to use a portion of our excess cash flow (as defined in the indenture) to repay other senior indebtedness or offer to repurchase the senior notes. Disclosure Controls and Procedures and Internal Controls—We maintain disclosure controls and procedures that are designed with the objective of ensuring that information required to be disclosed in our reports filed under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our Audit Committee and management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. We also maintain internal controls that are designed with the objective of providing reasonable assurance that (1) our transactions are properly authorized; (2) our assets are safeguarded against unauthorized or improper use; and (3) our transactions are properly recorded and reported, in order to permit the preparation of our financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and to comply with Sections 302, 906 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley Act” or “Sarbanes-Oxley”). A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within a company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of a simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of one or more individuals, by collusion of two or more individuals, or by management override of the control. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Further, because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002—We have completed the process of documenting and testing our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessments of the design and effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our Independent Registered Certified Public Accounting Firm addressing these assessments. Compliance with this legislation will continue to divert management’s attention and resources and is expected to cause us to incur significant expense in the foreseeable future. We have identified material weaknesses in the following areas: • Information Technology General Controls; • Revenue and Billing Process; • Financial Statement Close Process; • Inventory and Rental Assets; and • Income Taxes If we fail to remediate these material weaknesses and otherwise achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In addition, our Independent Registered Certified Public Accounting Firm may not be able to render the required attestation concerning our assessment and the effectiveness of the internal controls over financial reporting, which could adversely impact our business. Share Price—The market price of our ordinary shares and American Depositary Shares (or “ADSs”) could be subject to significant fluctuations as a result of many factors. In addition, global stock markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations may lead to a drop in the market price of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Factors which may add to the volatility of the price of our ordinary shares and ADSs include many of the factors set out above, and may also include changes in liquidity in the market for our ordinary shares and ADSs, sales of our ordinary shares and ADSs, investor sentiment towards the business sector in which we operate and conditions in the capital markets generally. Many of these factors are beyond our control. These factors may change the market price of our ordinary shares and ADSs, regardless of our operating performance. 8 Table of Contents Dividends on Ordinary Shares—We have not paid any cash or other dividends on our ordinary shares since 1998 and we do not expect to do so for the foreseeable future. We are an English company and, under English law, we are allowed to pay dividends to shareholders only if, as determined by reference to our financial statements prepared in accordance with UK GAAP: • we have accumulated, realized profits that have not been previously distributed or capitalized, in excess of our accumulated, realized losses that have not previously been written off in a reduction or reorganization of capital; and • our net assets are not less than the aggregate of our share capital and our non-distributable reserves, either before or as a result of the dividend. As of the date of filing of this annual report, we have insufficient accumulated, realized profits to pay dividends on our ordinary shares. In addition, our Fleet Credit Facility prohibits us from paying dividends on our ordinary shares without our lenders’ consent, and the indenture governing the senior notes restricts our ability to pay such dividends. Also, we may only pay dividends on our ordinary shares if we have paid all dividends due on our 6.50% senior convertible participating shares. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AVAILABLE ON COMPANY WEB-SITE Our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports may be viewed or downloaded electronically, free of charge, from our website: http://www.danka.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our recent press releases are also available to be viewed or downloaded electronically at http://www.danka.com. We will also provide electronic or paper copies of our SEC filings free of charge on request. Any information on or linked from our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 9 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Based on revenue, we are one of the largest independent providers of office imaging equipment, document solutions and related services and supplies in the United States and Europe. We offer a wide range of state of the art office imaging products, services, supplies and solutions that primarily include digital and color copiers, digital and color multifunction peripherals, (“MFPs”) facsimile machines and software. We also provide a wide range of contract services, including professional and consulting services, maintenance, supplies, leasing arrangements, technical support and training on the installed base of equipment created primarily by our retail equipment and related sales. We operate in over 20 countries and employ approximately 8,200 individuals. We generated approximately 45% and 55% of our total revenue from within the United States and outside the United States, respectively, for fiscal year 2005. Our revenue is generated from two primary sources: (1) new retail equipment and related sales and (2) service and supply contracts. We primarily sell Canon products in the United States and Ricoh products, on a retail and wholesale basis under our proprietary Infotec tradename, in Europe. We also sell other brands, including Kodak/Nexpress, Toshiba, Konica-Minolta and Hewlett-Packard. A significant portion of our retail equipment and related sales are made to existing customers, and nearly all are sold with a service or supply contract. In the United States, these contracts typically have an initial term of one to three years and renew on an annual basis thereafter, whereas in Europe, these contracts typically have a term of one to five years. A large majority of our retail equipment and related sales are financed by third party finance or leasing companies. For fiscal year 2005, retail equipment and related sales accounted for approximately 36% of our total revenue. Our marketing and selling efforts target the mid- to high-volume black and white image market, which is concentrated in equipment that can produce from 31 to greater than 91 copies per minute, and the growing color image market. Within these markets, our primary products include state of the art digital and color copiers and MFPs that photocopy, print, scan and fax information and related software and service. We have a world-wide installed machine base of analog and digital copiers and MFPs of approximately 250,000 units, which we refer to as machines in field (“MIF”), which generate monthly recurring revenues under our service contracts. Our service revenue generated from these contracts is closely correlated to the number, type and mix of analog, digital and digitally-connected machines in our MIF. In fiscal year 2005, our service revenue accounted for approximately 48% of our total revenue. We are a public limited company organized under the laws of England and Wales and we were incorporated on March 13, 1973. Our Industry The office imaging industry consists of the production and supply of various imaging products, as well as the provision of after-market products and services. The global digital printing peripherals equipment market, excluding services, is estimated to be $100 billion in 2005, segmented approximately equally between the United States, Europe and the rest of the world. The office imaging industry is comprised of large office equipment manufacturers, independent distributors and, as technologies continue to evolve, traditional desktop and network printer companies. Office imaging products are sold primarily through five channels of distribution: distributors, original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, independent dealer sales, retail sales and direct manufacturer sales. Distributor and independent dealer sales result from customer calls performed by independent dealer outlets that generally sell manufacturer-branded products. Retail sales include sales of low-end products typically through national retail outlets or smaller local dealers. Direct sales by office equipment manufacturers involve the marketing of products by sales representatives working directly for the manufacturer. See our discussion in Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding financial and geographical information relating to our business segments. The office imaging industry in which we have traditionally participated in the United States is generally represented by the following six black and white “digital segments,” two color segments and a new category of “color capable” systems that are designed to produce primarily black & white images, and have the added capability to produce “office color” images at lower speeds. 10 Table of Contents Segment CPM(1) Principal Manufacturers 1 < 20 Xerox, Sharp, Canon, Mita, Ricoh, Konica-Minolta 2 21 – 30 Canon, Ricoh, Mita, Konica-Minolta 3 31 – 44 Canon, Xerox, Sharp, Ricoh 4 45 – 69 Canon, Ricoh, Konica-Minolta, Xerox, Sharp 5 70 – 90 Ricoh, Canon, Xerox, Konica-Minolta 6 > 91 Ricoh, Canon, Lanier, Xerox, Kodak/Nexpress Office color < 39 Canon, Xerox, Ricoh, Konica-Minolta Production color > 24 Canon, Xerox, Ricoh, Konica-Minolta Color capable Canon, Xerox, Ricoh (1) Copies per minute Source:International Data Corporation There are several trends that are prevalent in the office imaging industry, including: • Evolution of office workflow process. The process of distributing information in the workplace has evolved over recent years through technological advances in communication, most notably electronic document delivery via e-mail and the Internet. While documents have traditionally been produced on a copier and then distributed to the relevant working groups, electronic document delivery has allowed documents to first be distributed electronically and then printed by the end user on the printer linked to the end user’s personal computer or stored for later use. This evolution has led to the rapid growth of printed documents from desktop and network printers. Copier volume has remained relatively flat and competition from non-traditional copier companies, such as manufacturers of desktop and network printers, has increased. However, recent trends in the application and networking of computer systems throughout the entire office have begun to enable the migration of printed material to the most efficient or cost-effective device, which often includes connected digital copiers and MFPs. • Shift from selling boxes to selling solutions. The growth in the volume of documents printed from lower volume, desktop and network printers has substantially increased end users’ per image cost for printed material. The ability of digital copiers and MFPs to be connected to the information technology network has provided an opportunity for end users to reduce their per image costs while optimizing the use of their imaging equipment. As companies look to reduce costs, they are increasingly requesting comprehensive solutions from their document imaging vendors. These solutions involve both equipment and related software and service offerings that allow them to better meet their document imaging needs, and optimize the use of their installed equipment. As such, most leading document imaging vendors are moving away from the analog “box sale” approach to one of being a provider of solutions that can satisfy their customers’ print management needs on a more efficient and cost-effective basis. • Increasing demand for color. Customers continue to demand high-performance machines that produce presentation-quality documents, leading to an interest in and demand for color equipment. The emergence of digital copiers, MFPs and lower-cost color-capable copiers allows companies to increase their level of in-house document production and produce presentation-quality copies for meetings, presentations and mailings. Although the transition to color is expected to be gradual according to industry sources, it represents an important and growing segment of the market, offering higher revenue growth for companies in the office imaging industry than the black and white market due to the higher cost of color-capable equipment and related consumable supplies. The demand for color systems and products continues to grow, and additional manufacturers are entering the market. As a result, we expect the transactional average selling price to decline going forward. 11 Table of Contents Products and Services Office Imaging Systems We offer a large selection of the top brands of office imaging products as part of our document solutions packages. These products represent a full complement of digital and color copiers, digital and color MFPs and facsimile machines, as well as print management software and related parts and supplies. In the United States, we sell high-volume segments 5 and 6 products, which include the Kodak/Nexpress Digimaster, Canon iR 105, as well as the Toshiba e-Studio series of digital products. In the mid-volume segments 3 and 4, we sell the full range of Canon iR and Toshiba e-Studio series digital copiers and MFPs. In the color segment, we sell the Canon CLC series of products as well as the Toshiba e-Studio line of color products. In addition, we sell a full complement of front end print server equipment and a portfolio of applications software which enhances the features and functions of the equipment. For example, among other things, certain of these software products: • convert paper information to digital formats and allow the reproduction of documents in a variety of formats; • help customers acquire, manage, store and retrieve documents in a secure manner; • permit the scanning of paper documents and importation of electronic files and emails; and • allow for “smart” distribution of print jobs across a range of printing devices. In Europe, we sell the Kodak/Nexpress Digimaster, as well as high-volume products manufactured by Ricoh under our Infotec brand name, Canon, Toshiba and Hewlett-Packard. We also sell a full range of Ricoh/Infotec and Canon iR products in the mid-volume range in Europe, where we also sell a full portfolio of print server equipment and software with the capabilities described above. We sell a variety of products in our non-U.S. Americas segment, where in most countries we have regional relationships with equipment manufacturers. For example, in Canada we sell primarily Canon and Toshiba digital equipment. In Mexico, we sell Toshiba digital products and, like some of the other Latin America countries which have been slower to make the analog to digital transition, we market refurbished equipment primarily on a rental basis. We are beginning to market solutions and software in some of these countries where we have been able to establish a base of digital equipment. Technical Services We also offer a broad range of field technical services which primarily involve the service and maintenance of our MIF. Our worldwide network of field engineers is dedicated to ensuring that customers get maximum up time from their investment in our office imaging systems. Our field engineers are highly trained and capable of servicing multiple equipment brands, including Canon, Ricoh, Toshiba, Hewlett-Packard, Kodak/Nexpress, Lexmark and others. Additionally, the field engineers are equipped with the experience, training, tools and parts necessary to ensure that customers are provided with rapid response time and first-time fix capability. Field engineers have access to a computerized warehouse system that stocks thousands of parts for immediate delivery to customers, and are equipped with laptop computers which contain reference materials and diagnostic software to assist with the early resolution of customer issues. In the large majority of our sales of office imaging systems, our customers also purchase a service contract which gives them access to our field technical engineers. We also receive referrals for technical services from OEMs for products they sell. This gives our customers immediate access to the best possible response to issues pertaining to their equipment, networking platforms, applications software and operating systems. Our technical services organization gives us broad service capabilities in the locations in which we do business and a competitive advantage as it allows us to offer our services on a multinational basis. We generally offer our technical services pursuant to contracts. Our service and supply contracts typically have an initial term of one to three years in the U.S. and four to five years in Europe and renew on an annual basis thereafter. New systems, as designed by manufacturers, are increasingly incorporating new technology into their MFPs, that permit field maintenance to be performed by replacing key components with field replaceable units, or FRUs. This trend may result in customer’s requesting additional flexibility in their maintenance contracts that permit higher levels of self maintenance or time and materials engagements, and may impact the company’s service revenue model. 12 Table of Contents Value-Added Service Offerings We offer a portfolio of value-added service offerings that provide our customers with efficiency and cost savings opportunities, as well as provide us with supplemental revenue streams. These value-added service offerings include the following: Professional Services Our Professional Services Group provides consulting services to our customers to help them reduce print costs, optimize the use of their office imaging equipment and improve their employees’ productivity by integrating our proven software solutions to leverage their investment in their imaging equipment. Expert guidance is provided in the United States by field-based personnel as well as our world-class Digital Solutions Center that replicates customer environments and provides advanced testing services. The group’s services include: • copy, print, and fax assessment, which assists customers in assessing their document production costs by recommending document management system enhancements; • scanning and document management, which assists customers in identifying opportunities for document capture and retrieval and reduces the cost of document management and storage; • copy and print accounting, which implements cost tracking systems for document output and integrates copy and print accounting with the customer’s financial infrastructure; • digital workflow, which assists customers in creating scaleable output solutions and customizes and configures hardware and software; • color management, which is advice to customers on the most effective color management tools available for graphics, production or corporate environments; • legacy data management, which enables customers to print legacy data from a variety of mainframes on the latest digital MFPs using open architecture software and printing platforms; • custom training solutions, which provide customers a broad portfolio of instructor-led training by manufacturer-certified trainers; and • digitally connected support, which provides customers an exclusive help desk resource that consolidates support for hardware, printing and applications, software and network issues. In Europe, we also provide services through country level support centers that offer many of the services listed above. Danka @ the Desktop Our Danka @ the Desktop approach is designed to optimize the use of a customer’s digital copiers, MFPs and network printers by providing the customer product offerings with the most efficient printing solution. Danka @ the Desktop enables our professional and technical services to provide customers: • a workflow analysis by our Professional Services consulting staff; • integrated software that enhances control and accountability; • connectivity to local area networks; • imaging system additions and upgrades; • implementation services, printer network optimization and user training; and • ongoing monitoring and technical support for multiple hardware and software components. TechSource TechSource is our multi-vendor services offering to our clients, primarily in the United States, whereby we provide all of their office equipment service needs, including everything from traditional copiers and printers to facsimile machines, scanners, MFPs, PCs, printer and network components. TechSource endeavors to consolidate customer contracts and provide a single point of contact 13 Table of Contents for customers to obtain services on their full range of networked, output or print devices. TechSource leverages our benchmark Technical Services organization and our field engineers to provide many of these services, which include: • a printer exchange program, which allows overnight replacement of desktop units on a one-for-one basis; • a toner supply program, which reduces the cost of consumables procurement; • help desk services, which provide economies of scale and improves responsiveness; and • access to our Customer Support Centers. Competition The industry in which we operate is highly competitive. We have competitors in all markets in which we operate, and our competitors include a number of companies worldwide with significant technological, distribution and financial resources. Competition in our industry is based largely upon technology, performance, pricing, quality, reliability, distribution, customer service and support and lease and rental financing. In addition, our equipment suppliers continue to establish themselves as direct competitors in many of the areas in which we do business. Some manufacturers of products in our industry have been consolidating in an attempt to gain market share and reduce costs. As such, the availability of certain products may become constrained or such products may become unavailable. Such consolidations may negatively impact our relationships with certain of our partners within the industry. Besides competition from within the office imaging industry, we are also experiencing competition from other sources as a result of evolving technology, including the development of alternative means of document processing, retention, storage and printing. Our retail operations are in direct competition with local and regional equipment suppliers and dealers, manufacturers, mass merchandisers and wholesale clubs. We have suffered, and may continue to suffer, a reduction of our market share because of the high level of competition in our industry. The intense competition in our industry may result in pressure on the prices and margins that we can obtain for our products and may affect our ability to retain customers. Seasonality We have experienced some seasonality in our business. Our European and Canadian operations have historically experienced lower revenue for the second quarter of our fiscal year, which is the three month period ended September 30th. This is primarily due to increased vacation time by European and Canadian residents during July and August. This has historically resulted in reduced sales activity and reduced usage of photocopiers, facsimiles and other office imaging equipment during that period. Employees As of March 31, 2005, we employed approximately 8,200 persons, with approximately 5,200 in our Americas segment and approximately 3,000 in our Europe/Australia segment. Some of our non-U.S. employees are subject to labor agreements that, among other things, establish rates of pay and working hours. We believe that we provide working conditions and wages that are comparable to those of our competitors. Trademarks and Service Marks We believe that our trademarks and service marks have gained recognition in the office imaging and document management industry and are important to our marketing efforts. We have registered various trademarks and service marks. In particular, we believe that the trademarks “Danka,” “Infotec,” “TechSource” and “Danka @ the Desktop” are important to our ongoing business. Our policy is to continue to pursue registration of our marks whenever possible and to vigorously oppose any infringement of our proprietary rights. Depending on the jurisdiction, trademarks and service marks are valid as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained, and they have not been found to become generic. Registrations of trademarks and service marks in the United States can generally be renewed indefinitely as long as the trademarks and service marks are in use. Backlog Backlogs are not material to our business. 14 Table of Contents 