ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSThe risks described below could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. The risks below are not the only risks that the Company faces. Additional risks that are currently unknown to us or that we currently consider immaterial or unlikely could also adversely affect the Company.The economic conditions in the U.S. and throughout the globe may negatively impact the demand for the Company’s aircraft and services. Air cargo transportation volumes are strongly correlated to general economic conditions, including the price of aviation fuel. An economic downturn could reduce the demand for delivery services offered by DHL, BAX/Schenker and other delivery businesses, in particular expedited services shipped via aircraft. Accordingly, an economic downturn could reduce the demand for airlift and cargo aircraft leases. During an economic slowdown, customers generally prefer to use ground-based delivery services instead of more expensive air delivery services. If the price of aviation fuel rises significantly, the demand for cargo aircraft and air delivery services may decline further. Our cost of providing airline services could be more than the contractual revenues generated.The airlines each develop business plans for ACMI, charter and other operating contracts by projecting operating costs, crew productivity and maintenance expenses. Projections contain key assumptions, including flight hours, aircraft reliability, crewmember productivity and crewmember compensation and benefits. We may overestimate revenues, the level of crewmember productivity, and/or underestimate the actual costs of providing services when preparing for new business opportunities. If actual costs are higher than projected or aircraft reliability is less than expected, future operating results may be negatively impacted. The Company’s three airlines rely on crews that are unionized. The respective collective bargaining agreements for ABX and CCIA were recently renegotiated and the collective bargaining agreement for ATI is scheduled for a ratification vote in mid-March 2011. If collective bargaining agreements increase our costs and we cannot recover the increases in costs, we may decide to terminate customer contracts or curtail planned growth. If disagreements arise, airline operations could be interrupted and business could be adversely affected until agreements are reached with the crewmembers.Our airline operating agreements include on-time reliability requirements which can impact the Company's operating results and financial condition.The airline operating agreements with DHL and BAX/Schenker contain monetary penalties if aircraft reliability falls below certain monthly thresholds. An airline could be found in default of an agreement if it does not maintain minimum thresholds over an extended period of time. The airline operating agreements also contain monthly incentive payments for reaching specific on-time reliability thresholds. As a result, our operating revenues can vary from period 9Table of Contentsto period depending on the achievement of those monthly incentives.If ABX fails to maintain aircraft reliability above a minimum threshold in DHL's U.S. domestic network for two consecutive calendar months or three months in a rolling twelve month period, ABX would be in default of the CMI agreement with DHL. In that event, DHL may elect to terminate the CMI agreement, unless ABX maintains the minimum reliability threshold during a sixty-day cure period. If DHL terminates the CMI agreement due to an ABX event of default, ABX would be subject to a monetary penalty payable to DHL. The penalty at March 31, 2011 would be $15 million and will reduce to $10 million on March 31, 2012, and will remain at that amount through the initial term of the CMI agreement. Under provisions of the CMI and lease agreements with DHL, DHL can terminate the CMI or lease agreements subject to early termination provisions. DHL may terminate the CMI agreement for convenience at any time during the initial five-year term (other than the first twelve-months thereof) on the date that it ceases operating or causing to be operated the aircraft on air routes for which the origin and destination are within the United States, subject to providing six months notice and paying to ABX a termination fee. This termination fee will start at $70 million on March 31, 2011and amortize to zero during the remaining four year initial term of the CMI agreement. DHL may terminate one or more of the aircraft leases for convenience at any time after the first 24 months of the respective terms thereof, upon providing six months notice and paying to CAM a lump sum amount equal to six months rent. DHL may also terminate one or more aircraft leases at any time after the first 54 months of the term of the CMI agreement, in the event that DHL desires to transfer operational control of such aircraft, but is restricted from doing so by the terms of the collective bargaining agreement between ABX and its pilots' union providing that members of the pilots' union have the right to follow the aircraft to another operator, subject to providing six months notice and paying to CAM a lump sum amount equal to two months rent.BAX/Schenker may reduce airlift requirements or contract for airlift with other providers. CCIA and ATI have the exclusive right to supply all main deck freighter airlift in BAX/Schenker's U.S. domestic network. However, BAX/Schenker can remove an ATI or CCIA aircraft from service at the time an aircraft or engine on that aircraft requires a heavy maintenance event. ATI and CCIA's exclusive rights to supply airlift to BAX/Schenker is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2011, and BAX/Schenker has the right to terminate the exclusivity period before that date by paying a termination charge that declines ratably to zero through December 31, 2011. AMC may not renew our contracts or may reduce the number of routes that we operate.Our contracts with the AMC (an organization within the U.S. Military) are typically for one year and are not required to be renewed. The AMC may terminate the contracts for convenience or for an event of default, such as reliability. The number and frequency of AMC routes is sensitive to changes in military priorities and U.S. defense budgets.Our business could be negatively impacted by adverse audit findings by the U.S. government. Our U.S. Military contracts are subject to audit by government agencies, including with respect to performance, costs, internal controls and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. If an audit uncovers improprieties, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties, including termination of such contracts, forfeiture of profits, fines and suspension from doing business with the U.S. Military. Proposed rules from the Department of Transportation, the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration and the Transportation Security Administration would increase the Company's costs of operations and could reduce customers' utilization of airfreight.In September 2010, the FAA proposed new rules for Flightcrew Member Duty and Rest Requirements (FMDRR). If implemented, the new rules would require a pilot to have nine hours for the opportunity to rest before reporting to flight duty and place other restrictions on the number of duty hours in particular time periods. If enacted, these rules could have a significant impact on ATSG airlines' costs of operation. The airlines would attempt to pass such additional costs onto their customers in the form of price increases. Customers, as a result, may seek to reduce their utilization of aircraft in favor of less expensive transportation alternatives. The ATSG airlines are each studying the proposed rules and evaluating the effect that the rules could have on their flight resources and costs.10Table of ContentsThe Company continues to make significant investments in additional aircraft which may impact the Company’s operating results and financial condition.We plan to make capital investments to modify additional Boeing 767 standard freighter aircraft for service through 2011. We are also considering the development of a Boeing 757 combi variant. The actual demand for the Boeing 767 and 757 may be less than we anticipate. The actual lease rates for new modified aircraft may be less than we projected, or new leases may start later than we expect. Further, other airlines and lessors may be in a position to provide aircraft to the market before our aircraft are available for service. The Company's future operating results and financial condition will depend in part on our subsidiaries’ ability to successfully deploy these aircraft in operations that provide a positive return on investment. Our success will depend, in part, on their ability to obtain and operate additional cargo volumes with customers other than DHL and BAX/Schenker, including international markets. Deploying aircraft in international markets can pose additional risks, regulatory requirements and costs. The concentration of aircraft types and engines in the Company's airlines could adversely affect our operating and financial results. The combined aircraft fleet is concentrated in four aircraft types. If any of theses aircraft types encounter technical difficulties that resulted in significant FAA Airworthiness Directives or grounding, our ability to lease the aircraft would be adversely impacted, as would our airlines' operations. The market growth in demand for the Boeing 767 and 757 aircraft types and configurations may be less than we anticipate. Customers may develop preferences for the Airbus A300-600 and A330 aircraft which provide capabilities similar to the Boeing 767 aircraft. We rely on third parties to modify aircraft and provide aircraft and engine maintenance. If service providers do not deliver the level of service expected by our business, future operating results may be negatively impacted. We rely on certain third party service providers that have expertise or resources that we do not have. An unexpected termination or delay involving such service providers could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. We must effectively manage such third parties to meet aircraft modification schedules and maintenance events. A delay in an aircraft modification could adversely impact our revenues and our ability to place the aircraft in the market.The Company could violate debt covenants.The Company’s Credit Agreement and aircraft loans contain covenants, including, among other things, limitations on certain additional indebtedness, guarantees of indebtedness and the level of annual capital expenditures. The Credit Agreement and aircraft loans cross default. The Credit Agreement and loans stipulate events of default, including unspecified events that may have material adverse effects on the Company. If an event of default occurs, the Company’s cost of borrowings could increase, and the contractual repayment of debt may accelerate. Additionally, the Company’s ability to modify and deploy aircraft could be limited as a result.Our access to liquidity could be less than we need for our expected growth plans and our cost of debt could increase. The Company's existing Credit Agreement expires in December 2012. At that time, a balloon payment of $139.1 million is due to the consortium of banks that finance the Company's term loan, plus any draws on the revolving credit facility that may be outstanding on December 31, 2012. We are exploring alternatives which may secure longer term debt financing before the balloon payment is due. Alternatives which we may consider include amending and extending the current Credit Agreement beyond 2012, terminating and replacing the current Credit Agreement with a new bank facility as well as other alternatives. A new, follow-on credit agreement, assuming one can be obtained before 2012, may contain more restrictive covenants, dividend limitations, tighter restrictions on capital spending and higher costs of interest than the existing Credit Agreement. As of December 31, 2010, the Company had $3.6 million of capitalized loan origination costs and $4.6 million of unrealized losses from the hedging of interest payments that could adversely impact future operating results if the Credit Agreement is terminated early. The ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes may be further limited.Limitations imposed on the ability to use net operating losses (“NOLs”) to offset future taxable income could cause U.S. federal income taxes to be paid earlier than otherwise would be paid if such limitations were not in effect and 11Table of Contentscould cause such NOLs to expire unused, in each case reducing or eliminating the benefit of such NOLs. Similar rules and limitations may apply for state income tax purposes. Significant ownership changes could limit our ability to use NOLs to offset future taxable income. In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change NOLs to offset future taxable income. In general, an ownership change occurs if the aggregate stock ownership of significant stockholders increases by more than 50 percentage points over such stockholders’ lowest percentage ownership during the testing period (generally three years). We may need to reduce the carrying value of the Company’s assets.The Company owns a significant amount of aircraft, aircraft parts and related equipment. Additionally, the balance sheet reflects assets for income tax carryforwards and other deferred tax assets. The removal of aircraft from service or continual losses from aircraft operations could require the Company to evaluate the recoverability of the carrying value of those aircraft, related parts and equipment in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification (“FASB ASC”) Topic 360-10, Property, Plant, and Equipment, and result in an impairment charge.We have recorded significant amounts of goodwill and intangibles related to acquisitions. If we are unable to achieve the projected levels of operating results and these assets are impaired, it may be necessary to record a non-cash charge to earnings.If the Company incurs operating losses or our estimates of expected future earnings indicate a decline, it may be necessary to reassess the need for a valuation allowance for some or all of the Company’s net deferred tax assets.Penalties, fines and sanctions levied by governmental agencies or the costs of complying with government regulations could negatively affect our results of operations.The operations of the Company’s subsidiaries are subject to complex aviation, transportation, security, environmental, labor, employment and other laws and regulations. These laws and regulations generally require our subsidiaries to maintain and comply with a wide variety of certificates, permits, licenses and other approvals. Their inability to maintain required certificates, permits or licenses, or to comply with applicable laws, ordinances or regulations could result in substantial fines or, in the case of DOT and FAA requirements, possible suspension or revocation of their authority to conduct operations.The costs of maintaining the aircraft in compliance with government regulations could negatively affect our results of operations.All aircraft in the Company’s airline subsidiaries’ in-service fleets were manufactured prior to 1990. Manufacturer Service Bulletins and the FAA Airworthiness Directives issued under its “Aging Aircraft” program cause operators of such aged aircraft to be subject to extensive aircraft examinations and require such aircraft to undergo structural inspections and modifications to address problems of corrosion and structural fatigue at specified times. The FAA may issue Airworthiness Directives that could require significant inspections and major modifications to such aircraft. The FAA may issue Airworthiness Directives that could limit the usability of certain aircraft types. The FAA is currently considering the issuance of an airworthiness directive that may require the replacement of the aft pressure bulkhead on Boeing 767-200 aircraft based on a certain number of landing cycles. If such an Airworthiness Directive is issued, all of the Boeing 767s within the Company will be affected over approximately a seven year period. The cost of compliance is estimated to be $1.0 million per aircraft.In addition, new FAA regulations require that aircraft manufacturers must establish limits on an aircraft flight cycle as described in Item 1, under Federal Aviation Administration Regulation of this report. These regulations may increase our maintenance costs and eventually limit the use of our aircraft.Failure to maintain the operating certificates and authorities of ABX, ATI and CCIA would adversely affect our business.The airline subsidiaries have the necessary authority to conduct flight operations pursuant to the economic authority issued by the DOT and the safety based authority issued by the FAA. The continued effectiveness of such authority is subject to their compliance with applicable statutes and DOT, FAA and TSA rules and regulations, including any new rules and regulations that may be adopted in the future. The loss of such authority by an airline subsidiary could cause 12Table of Contentsa default of covenants within the Credit Agreement and would materially and adversely affect its airline operations, effectively eliminating the airline's ability to operate air services.The Company may be affected by global climate change or by legal, regulatory or market responses to such potential climate change.The Company is subject to the regulations of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and state and local governments regarding air quality and other matters. In part, because of the highly industrialized nature of many of the locations at which the Company operates, there can be no assurance that we have discovered all environmental contamination for which the Company may be responsible.Concern over climate change, including the impact of global warming, has led to significant federal, state and international legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. The European Commission has mandated the extension of the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme ("ETS") for greenhouse gas emissions to the airline industry. Under this decision, all Company airline subsidiary flights to and from any airport in any member state of the European Union will be covered by the ETS requirements beginning in 2012, and each year we will be required to submit emission allowances in an amount equal to the carbon dioxide emissions from such flights. The U.S. Congress has considered the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. Also, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency could regulate greenhouse gas emissions, especially aircraft engine emissions. The cost to comply with potential new laws and regulations could be substantial for the Company. These costs could include an increase in the cost of the fuel and capital costs associated with updating aircraft. Until the timing, scope and extent of any future regulation becomes known, we cannot predict its effect on the Company’s cost structure or operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone. 