ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks described below could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. The risks below are not the only risks that the Company faces. Additional risks that are currently unknown to us or that we currently consider immaterial or unlikely could also adversely affect the Company. We continue to rely on DHL for a substantial portion of our revenue and operating cash flows. DHL could reduce the scope of service provided by ABX. DHL may make strategic changes in its network in an effort to reduce its operating losses in the U.S. DHL can, after a contractual advance-notice period, reduce the scope of services that ABX provides under the ACMI or Hub Services agreements. For example, DHL can reduce the number of aircraft or the number of routes that ABX flies, or DHL can transfer the management of any or all of the hubs that ABX operates. Further, DHL continues to place pressure on its vendors and service providers, including ABX, to reduce costs, improve productivity and stem its operating losses in the U.S. DHL competes in the U.S. against FedEx Corporation and United Parcel Service, Inc., each of which has significant resources, market penetration and brand recognition. ABX may experience declines in its revenues and operating cash flows if volume reductions are experienced by DHL. The term of the Hub Services agreement will automatically renew for an additional year unless either party gives notice of termination on or before May 17, 2008. Termination of the Hub Services agreement would adversely impact our business, resulting in a significant decline in our revenues and earnings. As a condition to renewal, DHL may seek to negotiate new terms, possibly creating greater risk/reward opportunities related to ABX’s performance and cost controls or a reduction in the scope of services ABX provides to DHL. The Company is highly leveraged and relies on debt arrangements for liquidity. ABX and CHI have a Credit Agreement and other debt arrangements that subject them to covenants and stipulate events of default. The removal of services from the ACMI agreement or other significant declines in our business could result in a condition of default that could limit ABX’s and CHI’s use of the credit arrangements. Conditions in the credit market may affect the cost of the Company’s borrowings. The Company and the lead bank for its Credit Agreement are currently marketing the $270 million unsubordinated term loan to other banks and investors. Conditions in the credit market may result in a higher cost of borrowing to attract additional lenders. 10 Table of Contents On January 14, 2008, ABX received from DHL a demand for payment in full of all amounts due under the DHL Note (including principal and accrued but unpaid interest), which would total $92.9 million. In its demand, DHL asserts that the acquisition by the Company of CHI and the related financing transaction, which closed on December 31, 2007, constituted a “change of control” under the terms of the DHL Note. We do not believe a “change of control” occurred in connection with the CHI acquisition and, accordingly, have disputed DHL’s demand. If, however, it becomes necessary for ABX to repay the DHL Note, it has secured back-up financing through January 2009. See Note H to the consolidated financial statements of this report for additional information. The costs to the Company of such back-up financing could be significantly greater than the financing costs under the DHL Note. The combined Company created by our acquisition of CHI may not perform as well financially as we expect. The Company, through its subsidiaries, is highly leveraged and has a large fleet of recently modified, and soon to be modified, cargo aircraft, many of which are currently not under long-term contracts. The success of the combination will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated revenue opportunities while leveraging cost structures when possible. Benefits of the combination must be realized in a timely manner, due to significant debt servicing requirements presupposed by the acquisition. We will attempt to identify and realize synergies without adversely affecting revenues or suffering a business interruption. If we are not able to successfully bring cost effective service offerings to the market, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be realized or may take longer to realize than expected. Leveraging certain business functions, even if achieved in an efficient, effective and timely manner, may not produce results of operations and financial condition consistent with our expectations or superior to what ABX and CHI could have achieved independently. Allocations of corporate overhead expenses will negatively impact our operating results. The provisions of the two commercial agreements ABX has with DHL do not require an allocation of overhead to the charter segment or to other non-DHL operations until such time as ABX derives more than 10% of its total revenue from non-DHL business activities. ABX may reach this threshold in 2008, depending on the timeframe over which the revenues are measured. Once the 10% threshold is reached, a portion of overhead costs will be allocated to ABX’s charter segment and other non-DHL operations and will no longer be reimbursed by DHL. ABX and DHL have begun to discuss how the expense allocations will be accomplished, but, at this time, management cannot predict with reasonable certainty the level of overhead costs that will be allocated to non-DHL operations. DHL has communicated to ABX’s management its assertions that under provisions within the ACMI and Hub Services agreements 1) certain corporate overhead expenses incurred by ABX as a result of being a publicly traded company are not required to be reimbursed by DHL (these expenses include professional fees incurred by the Company to evaluate an offer by ASTAR to acquire all of the outstanding stock of ABX) and 2) ABX reached the 10% threshold for allocating overhead expenses to the Charter segment and other non-DHL operations during the second quarter of 2007 when excluding fuel revenues that are reimbursed without mark-up. ABX’s management maintains that the 10% threshold included in the commercial agreements includes the fuel revenues, and, until such time as the 10% threshold is met, all of the corporate overhead expenses are reimbursable under the commercial agreements. The dispute resolution procedures, as specified in the agreements, have begun, and management is preparing to prosecute its position through arbitration. While we expect to prevail in the dispute resolution process and, accordingly, no charge or reserve for disputed overhead expenses has been recorded, the arbitration process could result in an unfavorable outcome, requiring ABX to bear overhead expenses currently in dispute, without reimbursement from DHL. Certain terms of the ACMI agreement and Hub Services agreement with DHL may adversely affect ABX’s operating results. Under the ACMI agreement and Hub Services agreement, if ABX does not meet certain performance standards, after a cure period, DHL may terminate the ACMI agreement and Hub Services agreement prior to the 11 Table of Contents end of their respective terms. A recurring work slowdown or strike by one or more groups of employees, such as ABX’s mechanics, sorters or flight crews, could adversely impact our operating performance. These events could result in reductions by DHL to the scope of services provided under the DHL agreements, leading to the termination of those agreements. Although the ACMI agreement and Hub Services agreement with DHL are structured as cost-plus arrangements, the costs for which ABX can be reimbursed are subject to certain limitations. For instance, labor rate increases are capped at predetermined levels and certain other costs are non-reimbursable. DHL can dispute whether expenses ABX has incurred are reimbursable under the agreements. The agreements give DHL, within reason, certain rights to audit ABX’s expenses. Further, the agreements stipulate dispute and arbitration procedures. If labor costs sharply increase or ABX incurs excessive non-reimbursable costs, there can be no assurance that the revenues from these agreements will generate sufficient income for ABX to recover its costs. The Company is dependent upon the economic conditions in the U.S. An economic downturn in the U.S. is likely to adversely affect demand for delivery services offered by DHL and BAX, in particular expedited services shipped via aircraft. During an economic slowdown, customers generally use ground-based delivery services instead of more expensive air delivery services. A prolonged economic slowdown may increase the likelihood that DHL would reduce the scope of services ABX provides under the ACMI agreement. Although the cost of jet fuel does not directly affect our net earnings, increased prices of jet fuel could also reduce the demand for air delivery services from DHL, BAX or our other ACMI customers. The Company has made a significant investment in Boeing 767 aircraft. The Company, through its subsidiaries, is planning to add six Boeing 767 aircraft to service through 2008. This is in addition to eleven Boeing 767 aircraft that ABX added to its Charter segment operations since 2005. Our future operating results and financial condition will depend in part on our subsidiaries ability to successfully deploy these aircraft in operations that provide a positive return on investment. Our success will depend, in part, on their ability to obtain and operate additional cargo volumes with customers other than DHL and BAX. Certain of our subsidiaries are pursuing international opportunities, including flights in Asia, Central America, South America and Europe. Deploying aircraft in new international markets may pose additional risk, regulatory requirements and costs. Our future operating results will be affected by the interest rates, limits and other terms and conditions of the borrowings or leases. See page 30 for further discussion of these aircraft. We may need to reduce the carrying value of our assets. We own a significant amount of aircraft, aircraft parts and related equipment. Additionally, our balance sheet reflects assets for income tax carryforwards and other deferred tax assets. The removal of aircraft from service could require the Company to evaluate the recoverability of the carrying value of those aircraft in accordance with Statements of Financial Accounting Standard (“SFAS”) No. 144 and result in an impairment charge. At the Company’s current level of stockholders’ equity, the removal of additional aircraft from the DHL ACMI agreement could result in impairment charges for aircraft if their fair market values are less than their carrying values. As a result of acquiring CHI, we have recorded significant amounts of goodwill and acquisition-related intangibles, which will be tested periodically for impairment. If we are unable to achieve the projected levels of operating results and these assets are impaired, it may be necessary to record a charge to earnings. If we incur operating losses or our estimates of expected future earnings indicate a decline, it may be necessary to reassess the need for a valuation allowance for some or all of the Company’s net deferred tax assets. 12 Table of Contents Penalties, fines, and sanctions levied by governmental agencies or the costs of complying with government regulations could negatively affect our results of operations. Our subsidiaries’ operations are subject to complex aviation, transportation, environmental, labor, employment and other laws and regulations. These laws and regulations generally require us to maintain and comply with a wide variety of certificates, permits, licenses and other approvals. Their inability to maintain required certificates, permits or licenses, or to comply with applicable laws, ordinances or regulations could result in substantial fines or, in the case of DOT and FAA requirements, possible suspension or revocation of their authority to conduct operations. All aircraft in our airline subsidiaries’ in-service fleet of 127 aircraft were manufactured prior to 1990. The average ages of our Boeing 767, Boeing 727, DC-9 and DC-8 aircraft are approximately 24, 28 and 36 and 40 years, respectively. Manufacturer Service Bulletins and the FAA Airworthiness Directives issued under its “Aging Aircraft” program cause aircraft operators of such aged aircraft to be subject to extensive aircraft examinations and require such aircraft to undergo structural inspections and modifications to address problems of corrosion and structural fatigue at specified times. Airworthiness Directives have been issued that require inspections and both major and minor modifications to such aircraft. It is possible that additional Service Bulletins or Airworthiness Directives applicable to the types of aircraft or engines included in our fleet could be issued in the future. The cost of compliance with Airworthiness Directives and of following Service Bulletins cannot currently be reasonably estimated but could be substantial. Failure to maintain the operating certificates and authorities of ABX, ATI and CCIA would adversely affect our business. Our airline subsidiaries have the necessary authority to conduct flight operations within the U.S. and maintain Domestic All-Cargo Air Service Certificates for their domestic services, a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity for Route 377 for ABX’s Canada service, and Air Carrier Operating Certificates issued by the FAA. The continued effectiveness of such authority is subject to their compliance with applicable statutes and DOT, FAA and TSA rules and regulations, including any new rules and regulations that may be adopted in the future. Under U.S. laws and DOT precedents, non-U.S. citizens may not own more than 25% of, or have actual control of, a U.S. certificated air carrier. The separation of ABX from Airborne required it to file a notice of a substantial change with the DOT. In connection with the filing, the DOT will determine whether ABX continues to be fit, willing and able to engage in air transportation of cargo and a U.S. citizen. The DOT may determine that DHL actually controls ABX as a result of the commercial arrangements (in particular, the ACMI agreement and the Hub Services agreement) between ABX and DHL. If the DOT determined that ABX was controlled by DHL, the DOT could bring an enforcement action against ABX to revoke its certificates. The DOT could take action requiring ABX to show cause that it is a U.S. citizen and that it is fit, willing and able to engage in air transportation of cargo, or requiring amendments or modifications of the ACMI agreement, the Hub Services agreement or the other transaction documents. If ABX was unable to modify these agreements to the satisfaction of the DOT, the DOT may seek to suspend, modify or revoke its air carrier certificates and/or authorities. The loss of our airlines’ authorities, including in the situation described above, would materially and adversely affect our airline operations and would effectively eliminate our ability to operate the air services. Employees may decide to institute labor agreements. Our subsidiaries rely on a diverse group of employees, including sorters, mechanics and pilots. Today, only flight crewmembers are organized under labor agreements. Operations could be interrupted and business could be adversely affected if no agreements are reached with the pilots or if other employee groups choose to organize with a union. 13 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 