ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks described below could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. The risks below are not the only risks that the Company faces. Additional risks that are currently unknown to us or that we currently consider immaterial or unlikely could also adversely affect the Company. The economic conditions in the U.S. and throughout the globe have impacted and may continue to impact the Company’s operating results, financial condition and access to liquidity. A continued global economic downturn could further reduce the demand for delivery services offered by DHL, BAX and other delivery businesses, in particular expedited services shipped via aircraft. During an economic slowdown, customers generally prefer to use ground-based delivery services instead of more expensive air delivery services. Additionally, if the price of aviation fuel rises, the demand for air delivery services is likely to decline further. The current economic slowdown could negatively affect our growth prospects and financial projections more severely than we have projected. DHL’s U.S. restructuring combined with a tight credit market could impact the Company’s access to liquidity. DHL’s U.S. restructuring announcement, the turmoil in the global financial markets and the crisis in the U.S. credit market could affect the Company’s access to liquidity. Certain lenders have questioned whether DHL’s decision to restructure its U.S. business constitutes a material adverse event (“MAE”) under provisions of the Credit Agreement and aircraft loans (see Note J to the accompanying consolidated financial statements). If a lender within the Credit Agreement declares an MAE, availability under the revolving credit facility will be reduced by the lender’s portion of the facility. Further, the Credit Agreement provides that if lenders having more than half of the outstanding dollar amount of the commitments assert that an MAE exists at the time the borrower attempts to borrow under the Credit Agreement, they can assert an event of default exists under the Credit Agreement and require the agent to exercise its remedies. If an event of default occurs, the Company may be forced to repay, renegotiate or replace the Credit Agreement. Given the current credit crisis and announcement 9 Table of Contents by DHL of its U.S. restructuring plan, the interest rates and other costs of a renegotiated or new facility, if one can be obtained, would likely be more expensive and may require more rapid amortization of principal than under the terms of the current Credit Agreement. The Company could violate debt covenants. The Company’s Credit Agreement and aircraft loans contain covenants including, among other things, limitations on certain additional indebtedness, guarantees of indebtedness, and the level of annual capital expenditures. The Credit Agreement and loans stipulate events of default including unspecified events that may have material adverse effects on the Company. DHL’s restructuring may trigger an event of default. Such a default could increase the Company’s cost of borrowings, accelerate contractual repayment of debt and limit the Company’s ability to modify and redeploy Boeing 767 aircraft. The Company may need to fund its employee pension plans faster than management expects. The turmoil in the global financial markets has negatively affected the Company’s funded pension plans. Based on existing laws, the increase in the unfunded status could increase the contributions which ABX is expected to make into the plans in 2009 and in subsequent years, or become subject to penalty. Additionally, since DHL’s restructuring announcement in May 2008, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (“PBGC”), a governmental agency that insures pension plan benefits in the U.S., has made several inquiries of management regarding the plans’ status, and as to DHL’s intentions with respect to providing additional plan funding. The Company has approached DHL to request that DHL make additional contributions to strengthen the funded status of the plans; those discussions are ongoing and the outcome uncertain. The PBGC has broad authority over pension funding and could compel ABX to terminate and settle the plans, which could accelerate pension funding requirements. The Company’s financial condition will be affected by the degree it recovers contract termination cost from DHL. DHL’s U.S. restructuring plan presents additional risk and uncertainties to the Company’s future financial condition and operating results. ABX is incurring significant termination and restructuring costs. Such costs include aircraft, equipment and property lease termination costs, maintenance agreement termination costs, severance benefits, pension and retiree medical funding, deferred tax reserves and asset impairments. The Company’s liquidity and financial condition will depend on ABX’s contractual termination rights and management’s ability to negotiate cash funding from DHL to cover the cash needed to terminate and wind-down the air network and the ground-based operations. Failure to reach an agreement regarding contractual termination rights, including aircraft under capital leases and pension funding, could result in arbitration or legal proceedings. If ABX is not successful at recovering sufficient termination funds from DHL, the Company may need additional sources of liquidity. In the absence of such sources, the Company may seek to sell assets to raise liquidity or the Company may seek relief of its obligations. The Company relies on DHL for a substantial portion of its revenue and operating cash flows. DHL has indicated that their network will continue to utilize some ABX Boeing 767 aircraft and Wilmington sorting operations to support its international services at least through September 2009. ABX and DHL management continue to discuss DHL’s longer term airlift and sorting requirements. However, we cannot reasonably predict the scope or level of ABX services that DHL will utilize, if any. The term of the Hub Services agreement will automatically renew for an additional year unless either party gives notice of termination on or before May 17, 2009. Further, the term of the ACMI agreement will automatically renew for an additional three years, unless either party gives notice of termination on or before August 15, 2009. As a condition to renewal, DHL may seek to negotiate new terms, possibly creating greater risk/reward opportunities related to ABX’s performance and cost controls or a reduction in the scope of services ABX provides to DHL. 10 Table of Contents Certain terms of the ACMI agreement and Hub Services agreement with DHL may adversely affect the Company’s operating results. Under the ACMI agreement and Hub Services agreement, if ABX does not meet certain performance standards, after a cure period, DHL may terminate the ACMI agreement and Hub Services agreement prior to the end of their respective terms. A recurring work slowdown or strike by one or more groups of employees, such as ABX’s mechanics, sorters or flight crews, could adversely impact our operating performance, leading to the termination of those agreements. Although the ACMI agreement and Hub Services agreement with DHL are structured as cost-plus arrangements, the costs for which ABX can be reimbursed are subject to certain limitations. DHL can dispute whether expenses ABX has incurred are reimbursable under the agreements. The agreements give DHL, within reason, certain rights to audit ABX’s expenses. Further, the agreements stipulate dispute and arbitration procedures. If ABX incurs excessive non-reimbursable costs, there can be no assurance that the revenues from these agreements will generate sufficient income for ABX to recover its costs. The Company’s financial condition will depend on its ability to diversify its customer base and restructure ABX’s costs. The Company is accelerating and expanding its efforts to diversify its revenue streams and develop new business opportunities in the wake of DHL’s restructuring of its U.S. operations. Those opportunities may require additional investments to complete standard freighter modification for a number of its Boeing 767 aircraft, and will include expanded aircraft maintenance and repair operations, aircraft dry leasing, ACMI contracts outside of the domestic U.S. market and additional mail sorting and mail transport contracts with the USPS. New business opportunities each involve separate risks, management expertise and cash requirements. The number of new opportunities may be limited. Additionally, management anticipates that significant restructuring, downsizing and wage concessions will be required to position ABX to competitively pursue new business development. These reductions include the costs of flight crews and aircraft maintenance. If ABX is unable to achieve sufficient cost reductions, new business development and revenue diversity will be limited. The timing of cost reductions must coincide with new business opportunities or ABX may not be able to make competitive bids on new business. ABX’s cost structure may be affected by its lease with DHL at the Wilmington, Ohio, air park. ABX could lose its lease at the air park. The term of the lease coincides with the ACMI agreement. Other facilities, if suitable for ABX’s operations, may be more expensive and less convenient to customers and employees. The Company will need sufficient liquidity as it attempts to quickly transition its resources to other customers and services. This includes capital to modify some of its Boeing 767 aircraft with passenger door loading systems to standard freight configuration and redeploy them for other potential customers. The Company continues to make significant investments in Boeing 767 aircraft which may affect the Company’s operating results and financial condition. The Company, through its subsidiaries, is planning to add Boeing 767 standard freighter aircraft to service through 2011. Our future operating results and financial condition will depend in part on our subsidiaries’ ability to successfully deploy these aircraft in operations that provide a positive return on investment. Our success will depend, in part, on their ability to obtain and operate additional cargo volumes with customers other than DHL and BAX. Certain of our subsidiaries are pursuing international opportunities, including flights in Asia, Central America, South America and Europe. Deploying aircraft in new international markets may pose additional risks, regulatory requirements and costs. The Company’s future operating results will be affected by the interest rates, limits and other terms and conditions of the borrowing agreements. 11 Table of Contents The Company will need DHL to release Boeing 767 aircraft from the ACMI agreement so that the aircraft can be redeployed for other customers. The Company’s aircraft may experience service interruptions. In June 2008, one of ABX’s Boeing 767 aircraft experienced a fire prior to engine start. The incident is currently under investigation by the National Transportation Safety Board, which has jurisdiction over such matters. The cause of the fire is unknown at this time. The resulting investigation could reveal an issue with the aircraft that may be applicable to all other Boeing 767s that the Company has in its fleets. This could require significant repairs or alterations on the remaining aircraft in the fleet, which could temporarily delay flights the Company could perform, adversely affecting the revenue streams. We may need to reduce the carrying value of the Company’s assets. The Company owns a significant amount of aircraft, aircraft parts and related equipment. Additionally, the balance sheet reflects assets for income tax carryforwards and other deferred tax assets. The removal of aircraft from service could require the Company to evaluate the recoverability of the carrying value of those aircraft, related parts and equipment in accordance with Statements of Financial Accounting Standard (“SFAS”) No. 144 and result in an impairment charge. At the Company’s current level of stockholders’ equity, the removal of additional aircraft from the DHL ACMI agreement could result in impairment charges for aircraft if their fair market values are less than their carrying values. As a result of acquiring CHI, we have recorded significant amounts of goodwill and acquisition-related intangibles, which will be tested periodically for impairment at least annually. If we are unable to achieve the projected levels of operating results and these assets are impaired, it may be necessary to record a non-cash charge to earnings. If the Company incurs operating losses or our estimates of expected future earnings indicate a decline, it may be necessary to reassess the need for a valuation allowance for some or all of the Company’s net deferred tax assets. Penalties, fines, and sanctions levied by governmental agencies or the costs of complying with government regulations could negatively affect our results of operations. The operations of the Company’s subsidiaries’ are subject to complex aviation, transportation, environmental, labor, employment and other laws and regulations. These laws and regulations generally require us to maintain and comply with a wide variety of certificates, permits, licenses and other approvals. Their inability to maintain required certificates, permits or licenses, or to comply with applicable laws, ordinances or regulations could result in substantial fines or, in the case of DOT and FAA requirements, possible suspension or revocation of their authority to conduct operations. The costs of complying with government regulations could negatively affect our results of operations. All aircraft in the Company’s airline subsidiaries’ in-service fleets were manufactured prior to 1990. Manufacturer Service Bulletins and the FAA Airworthiness Directives issued under its “Aging Aircraft” program cause operators of such aged aircraft to be subject to extensive aircraft examinations and require such aircraft to undergo structural inspections and modifications to address problems of corrosion and structural fatigue at specified times. Airworthiness Directives have been issued that require inspections and both major and minor modifications to such aircraft. The FAA is currently considering the issuance of an airworthiness directive that would require the replacement of the aft pressure bulkhead on Boeing 767-200 aircraft based on a certain number of landing cycles. If such an Airworthiness Directive is issued, all of the Boeing 767s within the Company will be affected over approximately a seven year period. The cost of compliance is estimated to be $1.0 million per aircraft. 12 Table of Contents The Company is subject to the regulations of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and state and local governments regarding air quality and other matters. In part, because of the highly industrialized nature of many of the locations at which the Company operates, there can be no assurance that we have discovered all environmental contamination for which the Company may be responsible. Failure to maintain the operating certificates and authorities of ABX, ATI and CCIA would adversely affect our business. The airline subsidiaries have the necessary authority to conduct flight operations within the U.S. and maintain Domestic All-Cargo Air Service Certificates for their domestic services, a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity for Route 377 for ABX’s Canada service, and Air Carrier Operating Certificates issued by the FAA. The continued effectiveness of such authority is subject to their compliance with applicable statutes and DOT, FAA and TSA rules and regulations, including any new rules and regulations that may be adopted in the future. Under U.S. laws and DOT precedents, non-U.S. citizens may not own more than 25% of, or have actual control of, a U.S. certificated air carrier. The separation of ABX from Airborne required it to file a notice of a substantial change with the DOT. In connection with the filing, the DOT will determine whether ABX continues to be a U.S. citizen and fit, willing and able to engage in air transportation of cargo. The DOT may determine that DHL actually controls ABX as a result of the commercial arrangements (in particular, the ACMI agreement and the Hub Services agreement) between ABX and DHL. If the DOT determined that ABX was controlled by DHL, the DOT could bring an enforcement action against ABX to revoke its certificates. The DOT could take action requiring ABX to show cause that it is a U.S. citizen and that it is fit, willing and able to engage in air transportation of cargo, or requiring amendments or modifications of the ACMI agreement, the Hub Services agreement or the other transaction documents. If ABX was unable to modify these agreements to the satisfaction of the DOT, the DOT may seek to suspend, modify or revoke its air carrier certificates and/or authorities. The loss of the airlines’ authorities, including in the situation described above, would materially and adversely affect our airline operations and would effectively eliminate our ability to operate the air services. Employees may decide to institute labor agreements. The Company’s subsidiaries rely on a diverse group of employees, including sorters, mechanics and pilots. Today, only flight crewmembers are organized under labor agreements. Operations could be interrupted and business could be adversely affected if no agreements are reached with the pilots or if other employee groups choose to organize with a union. Reporting of financial results could be delayed. Disagreements between ABX and DHL over the cost reimbursement provisions of the commercial agreements or arbitration rulings could delay future financial filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Company’s lenders. The Company’s failure to file financial reports timely could adversely impact compliance with the Company’s credit facility. ATSG common stock may be delisted from NASDAQ. The Company’s stock has been trading near or below $1.00 since DHL announced its plans on May 28, 2008. The Company received notice from NASDAQ indicating that the minimum bid price of the stock has been below $1.00 for 30 consecutive trading days. The stock must trade above $1.00 for at least 10 consecutive business days before September 18, 2009 or the stock will be delisted from NASDAQ. Alternatively, NASDAQ may permit the Company to transfer its common stock from the NASDAQ Global Market to the NASDAQ Capital Market if it satisfies the requirements for initial inclusion other than the minimum bid price requirement. 13 Table of Contents If its application for transfer is approved, the Company would have an additional 180 calendar days to comply with the minimum bid price requirement in order to remain on the NASDAQ Capital Market. Delisting of ATSG stock may reduce the market for the stock and further adversely affect its stock price. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 