RISK FACTORS Business Strategy—Danka Business Systems PLC (also referred to herein as “Danka”, the “Company”, “we”, “us” or “our”) believes that in order to stay competitive and generate positive earnings and cash flow, we must successfully implement our strategies. In connection with the implementation of our strategies, we have launched, and expect to continue to launch, several operational and strategic initiatives. However, the success of any of these initiatives may not be achieved if: • we do not maintain adequate levels of liquidity to finance such initiatives or are unable to meet the financial ratios and other covenants contained in our senior secured credit facility; • they are not accepted by our customers; • they do not result in revenue growth, generate cash flow, reduce operating costs or reduce our working capital investments; or • we are unable to provide the hardware, software, solutions or services necessary to successfully implement these initiatives or other products are introduced to the marketplace which result in our strategies being of less value to customers. Failure to implement one or more of our strategies and related initiatives could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Operating Earnings—We generated an operating loss from continuing operations for fiscal year 2007 of $13.0 million due to decreased revenue, increased restructuring charges and a loss on the sale of a subsidiary. The operating losses for the period included $6.0 million in restructuring charges and $2.5 million from a loss on the sale of a wholly-owned subsidiary. If we are not able to increase our revenue and improve our gross margins or reduce our operating costs, these operating losses may continue in the future. As we continue to evaluate our business and strategies, we could incur future operating losses and/or restructuring charges which may materially and adversely affect our operations, financial position, liquidity and results of operations. If we incur operating losses or do not generate sufficient profitability in the future, our growth potential and our ability to execute our business strategy may be limited. In addition, our ability to service our indebtedness may be impaired because we may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to pay principal or interest when due. Restructuring of Operations—We have implemented plans to reduce costs in order to become more competitive within our industry. These cost reduction plans involve, among other things, the outlay of cash for significant headcount reductions, the exit of certain non-strategic and non-core facilities, markets and products, the consolidation of many back-office functions into more centralized locations and the outsourcing of resource management functions and business process changes. If we fail to successfully implement our cost restructuring plans, including the timely buyout or sublease of vacant facilities, and fail to achieve our other long-term cost reduction goals, we may not reduce costs quickly enough to become more competitive within our industry or obtain necessary return on our cash investments. Additionally, we may lose valuable institutional knowledge, bear the risk of additional costs and expenses and incur a breakdown in our business and operational functions, including certain critical back-office operations, any of which could result in negative consequences to our customer service, our current internal control environment and operating results. Indebtedness—At March 31, 2007, we had consolidated indebtedness of $251.3 million, including current maturities of long-term debt and notes payable of $186.1 million. Our indebtedness includes $64.5 million in principal amount of 10.0% subordinated notes due April 1, 2008 and $175.0 million in principal amount of 11.0% senior notes due June 15, 2010. The subordinated notes accrue interest which is paid every six months on April 1 and October 1 while the senior notes accrue interest which is paid every six months on June 15 and December 15. 4 Table of Contents The amount of our indebtedness could have important consequences to us, including the following: • use of a portion of our cash flow to pay interest on our indebtedness will reduce the availability of our cash flow and liquidity to fund working capital, capital expenditures, strategic initiatives, restructuring and other business activities, including our ability to keep pace with the technological, competitive and other changes currently affecting our industry; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • limit our ability in making strategic acquisitions or exploiting business opportunities; and • limit our operational flexibility, including our ability to borrow additional funds, access our vendor credit lines, or dispose of assets. On January 31, 2007, we sold our European operations to Ricoh in a sale of all the outstanding capital stock of those European subsidiaries set forth in the Share Purchase Agreement (the “Target Companies”) for a purchase price of U.S. $215 million in cash, after an upward adjustment of U.S. $5 million as described in Note 5. “Discontinued Operations and Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale” to the consolidated financial statements. Under the indenture of the 11% senior notes, we are obligated to make a tender offer within 365 days of the sale for the notes at par, utilizing the balance of the asset sale proceeds that has not been used under the permitted expenditures defined in the indenture. In compliance with this requirement, we initiated a tender offer at par to the holders of the senior notes on June 25, 2007 Also on June 25, 2007, the Company completed new financing arrangements with GE Capital Corporation for $145.0 million, including $40.0 million in revolver debt as described in Note 18. “Subsequent Events” to the consolidated financial statements. Proceeds from this financing will be used in conjunction with the proceeds of the previously completed sale of our European businesses to reduce and refinance the Company’s existing debt and enhance working capital. A Notice of Redemption was initiated by the Company on June 25, 2007 to the holders of the 11.0% Senior Notes due 2010 at 105.5% of par and to the holders of the 10.0% Subordinated Notes due 2008 at 100.0% of par as described in Note 18. “Subsequent Events” to the consolidated financial statements. Debt and Credit Facilities—The Lien Credit Agreements governing our financing arrangements with GE Capital Corporation, contains representations, warranties and covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to: (1) incur additional indebtedness or, in the case of our restricted subsidiaries, issue preferred stock; (2) create liens; (3) pay dividends or make other restricted payments; (4) make certain investments; (5) sell or make certain dispositions of assets or engage in sale and leaseback transactions; (6) engage in transactions with affiliates; (7) engage in certain business activities; and (8) engage in mergers or consolidations. They also restrict the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends, or make other payments to us. In addition, the Lien Credit Agreements contain customary financial covenants that we must comply with on a quarterly basis. Competition—The industry in which we operate is highly competitive. We have competitors in all markets in which we operate, and our competitors include a number of companies with significant technological, distribution and financial resources. Competition in our industry is based upon many factors, including technology, performance, pricing, quality, reliability, distribution, market coverage, customer service and support and lease and rental financing. In addition, our equipment suppliers have established themselves as direct competitors in many of the areas in which we do business, and non-traditional competitors, primarily printer manufacturers, are developing technologies designed to lower prices. Besides competition from within the office imaging industry, we are also experiencing competition from other sources as a result of evolving technology, including the development of alternative means of document processing, retention, storage and printing. Our retail equipment operations are in direct competition with local 5 Table of Contents and regional equipment suppliers and dealers, manufacturers, mass merchandisers and wholesale clubs. We have suffered, and may continue to suffer, a reduction of our market share because of the high level of competition in our industry. The intense competition in our industry may result in pressure on the prices and margins for our products and may affect our ability to retain customers, both of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. As our suppliers develop new products, there is no guarantee that they will permit us to distribute such products or that such products will meet our customers’ needs and demands. In addition, some of our principal competitors are designing and manufacturing new technology, which may give them a competitive advantage over us. Furthermore, there is a trend within our industry to offer on-demand pricing where the customer does not buy or lease the equipment. Rather, the customer is only charged for the number of images produced by the equipment. This trend could require us to increase our rental equipment investments in order to remain competitive and we may not have the capital available to do so. Additionally, the competitive environment hinders employee retention, especially in the sales and service areas, which leads to higher turnover of employees, increased compensation expense and lower employee productivity. Vendor Relationships—We primarily have relationships with Canon, Toshiba, Kodak and Hewlett-Packard. These companies manufacture equipment, parts, supplies and software for resale by us in the markets in which we operate. We also rely on our equipment suppliers for related parts and supplies, vendor rebates and significant levels of vendor trade creditor financing for our purchases of products from them. Any inability to obtain equipment, parts, supplies or software in the volumes required and at competitive prices from our major vendors, or the loss of any major vendor, or the discontinuation of vendor rebate programs or adequate levels of vendor financing may seriously harm our business because we may not be able to supply those vendors’ products to our customers on a timely basis in sufficient quantities or at all. In addition, we rely on our vendors to effectively respond to changing technology and manufacture new products to meet the demands of evolving customer needs. There is no guarantee that these vendors, or any of our other vendors, will effectively respond to changing technology, continue to sell their products and services to us, or that they will do so at competitive prices. Other factors, including reduced access to credit by our vendors resulting from economic conditions, may impair our vendors’ ability to effectively respond to changing technology or provide products in a timely manner or at competitive prices. We also rely on non-equipment vendors for critical services such as transportation, supply chain and professional services. Any negative impacts to our business or liquidity could adversely impact our ability to establish or maintain these relationships. Technological Changes—The industry in which we operate is characterized by rapidly changing technology. Technological changes have contributed to declines in our revenues in the past and may continue to do so in the future. For example, the office imaging industry has changed from analog to digital copiers, multi-function peripherals (“MFPs”) and printers. Most of our digital products replaced analog products, which have historically been a significant percentage of our machines in field (“MIF”). Digital copiers and MFPs are more reliable than analog copiers and require less maintenance. Moreover, color printing and copying represents an important and growing part of our industry. We must improve our execution of color equipment sales and meet the demand for color products if we are to maintain and improve our operating performance and our ability to compete. To meet these trends, manufacturers are accelerating the introduction of products and new technology to address the growing need for color. These products include both cartridge based laser imaging systems, and newer inkjet based systems. Partially as a result of these technology trends, the industry and we are seeing increased downward pressure on average selling prices for both equipment and the accompanying service and supply contracts. Furthermore, the success of the cartridge based systems may put further pressure on the willingness of our traditional customers to enter into long-term service contracts, or service contracts at all. 6 Table of Contents Another industry change that has been fueled by technological changes is the migration of copy volume from traditional stand-alone copiers to network printers. This change allows end users to print distributed documents on printers linked directly to their personal computers as opposed to receiving copies of such documents that were copied on a traditional stand-alone copier. We will need to increasingly provide comprehensive solutions to our customers, such as offering digital copiers, MFPs, software solutions and printers that are directly linked to their networks, in order to remain competitive. Finally, the speed of technological changes may cause us in the future to write down our inventory, including, but not limited to, showroom, rental and other equipment and related supplies and parts, including parts and supplies for third party initiatives, as a result of obsolescence. In order to remain competitive, we must quickly and effectively respond to changing technology. Otherwise, such developments of technologies in our industry may impair our business, financial condition, results of operations or competitive position. Third Party Financing Arrangements—A large majority of our retail equipment, supplies and related sales are financed by third party finance or leasing companies. We have an agreement with General Electric Capital Corporation (or “GECC”), under which GECC has agreed to provide financing to our qualified customers to purchase equipment from us. Although we have other financing arrangements in place, GECC finances a significant part of our business. GECC has current and prospective lease financing agreements with our competitors. If these agreements result in more favorable terms to our competitors than our current agreement with GECC, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage within the industry in arranging third party financing to our customers, which could negatively affect our operating results. If we were to breach the covenants or other restrictions in our agreements with one or more of our financing sources, including GECC or our financial condition were to deteriorate, such sources might refuse to provide financing to our customers, require additional security or protection, or exercise other remedies of default. If one or more of our financing sources were to fail to provide financing to our customers, and we were unable to arrange alternative financing on similar terms or provide financing ourselves, those customers might be unable to purchase equipment from us. In addition, if we were unable to arrange financing, we would lose sales, which could negatively affect our operating results. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Other Financing Arrangements—General Electric Capital Corporation”. Disaster Recovery—Our systems are designed for security and reliability. We regularly back up our information systems and subject them to a virus scan. These efforts are intended to buttress the integrity and security of our information systems and the data stored in them, and to minimize the potential for loss in the event of a disaster, including, but not limited to, natural disasters or terrorist attacks. During fiscal year 2005, we entered into a hosting agreement with IBM for the management of our U.S. information systems infrastructure. This arrangement has relocated our data center out of Florida to a secure location in Atlanta, Georgia, which we believe has provided an additional disaster recovery capability. Our facilities have reserve power generating systems to prevent the loss of power and minimize downtime in the event of shortages; however, should a natural disaster impact our critical facilities, which are primarily located in St. Petersburg, Florida, we may suffer disruption of certain critical support functions for such time as is necessary to replicate such functions elsewhere. Business Processes and Policies—We have identified instances in the past where we did not have adequate processes in place or our business processes and policies have not been properly implemented or followed in the past, which have resulted in, among other things, poor billing and credit practices, weak customer contract management, excessive and undisciplined issuances of customer credits, inaccurate customer data and inadequate document retention. In fiscal year 2007 we implemented improvements that remediated a previously-disclosed material weakness in this area and, although no longer a material weakness, we continue to address these issues and implement further improvements to ensure that adequate process are in place related to customer billing. For further detail on the remediation of this previously-disclosed material weakness related to revenue and billing, see our discussion in Item 9a-Controls and Procedures. Tax Payments—We are either currently under audit or may be audited in the key tax jurisdictions in which we operate or have recently sold. While we believe we are adequately reserved for such liabilities, should 7 Table of Contents revenue agencies impose assessments or require payments in excess of those we currently expect to pay, we could be required to record additional liabilities. Additionally, our liquidity could be adversely affected based upon the size and timing of such payments. Economic Uncertainty—The profitability of our business is susceptible to uncertainties in the global economy. Overall demand for our products and services and our profit margins may decline as a direct result of an economic recession, inflation, changes in interest rates or governmental fiscal policy, or other macroeconomic factors which are out of our control. As a result, our customers may reduce or delay expenditures for our products and services. Disclosure Controls and Procedures and Internal Controls—We maintain disclosure controls and procedures that are designed with the objective of ensuring that information required to be disclosed in our reports filed under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our Audit Committee and management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Our objective is to maintain internal controls that are designed to provide reasonable assurance that (1) our transactions are properly authorized; (2) our assets are safeguarded against unauthorized or improper use; and (3) our transactions are properly recorded and reported, in order to permit the preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and to comply with Sections 302, 906 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley Act” or “Sarbanes-Oxley”). A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of errors or fraud, if any, within a company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of a simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of one or more individuals, by collusion of two or more individuals, or by management override of the control. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Further, because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Share Price—The market price of our ordinary shares and American Depositary Share (or “ADS”) could be subject to significant fluctuations as a result of many factors. In addition, global stock markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations may lead to a drop in the market price of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Factors which may add to the volatility of the price of our ordinary shares and ADSs include many of the factors set out above, and may also include changes in liquidity in the market for our ordinary shares and ADSs, sales of our ordinary shares and ADSs, investor sentiment towards the business sector in which we operate and overall conditions in the capital markets. Many of these factors are beyond our control. These factors may change the market price of our ordinary shares and ADSs, regardless of our operating performance. Dividends on Ordinary Shares—We have not paid any cash or other dividends on our ordinary shares since 1998 and we do not expect to do so for the foreseeable future. We are an English company and, under English law, we are allowed to pay dividends to shareholders only if, as determined by reference to our financial statements prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards; • we have accumulated, realized profits that have not been previously distributed or capitalized, in excess of our accumulated, realized losses that have not previously been written off in a reduction or reorganization of capital; and 8 Table of Contents • our net assets are not less than the aggregate of our share capital and our non-distributable reserves, either before or as a result of the dividend. As of the date of filing of this annual report, we have insufficient accumulated, realized profits to pay dividends on our ordinary shares. In addition, our Bank of America Credit Facility prohibits us from paying dividends on our ordinary shares without our lenders’ consent, and the indenture governing the senior notes restricts our ability to pay such dividends. Also, we may pay dividends on our ordinary shares only if we have paid all dividends due on our 6.50% senior convertible participating shares. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AVAILABLE ON COMPANY WEB-SITE Our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports may be viewed or downloaded electronically, free of charge, from our website: http://www.danka.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our recent press releases are also available to be viewed or downloaded electronically at http://www.danka.com. We will also provide electronic or paper copies of our SEC filings free of charge on request. Any information on or linked from our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 9 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Based on revenue, we are one of the largest independent providers of comprehensive document solutions including office imaging equipment, software, support, and related services and supplies in the United States. We offer a wide range of state of the art office imaging products, services, supplies and solutions that primarily include digital and color copiers, digital and color multifunction peripherals, (“MFPs”) printers, facsimile machines and software, contract services, including professional and consulting services, maintenance, supplies, leasing arrangements, technical support and training, collectively referred to as Danka Document Services. Our revenue is generated from two primary sources: (1) new retail equipment, supplies and related sales and (2) service contracts. We primarily sell Canon products but also sell other brands, including Kodak, Toshiba, and Hewlett-Packard. A significant portion of our retail equipment, supplies and related sales are made to existing customers, and nearly all are sold with a service or supply contract. These contracts typically have an initial term of one to three years and renew on an annual basis thereafter. A large majority of our retail equipment, supplies and related sales are financed by third party finance or leasing companies. For fiscal year 2007, retail equipment, supplies and related sales accounted for approximately 45% of our total revenue. Our marketing and selling efforts target the mid- to high-volume black and white and color image market, which is concentrated in monochrome equipment that can produce from 31 to greater than 91 pages per minute, and color capable equipment that can produce from 10 to greater than 50 pages per minute. Within these markets, our primary products include state of the art digital and color copiers and MFPs that copy, print, scan and fax information and related software and service. We have an installed machine base of analog and digital copiers and MFPs of approximately 120,000 units, which we refer to as machines in field (“MIF”), which generate monthly recurring revenues under our service contracts. Our service revenue generated from these contracts is closely correlated to the number, type and mix of analog, digital and digitally-connected machines in our MIF. In fiscal year 2007, our service revenue accounted for approximately 52% of our total revenue. We are a public limited company organized under the laws of England and Wales and we were incorporated on March 13, 1973. Our Industry The office imaging industry consists of the production and supply of various imaging products, as well as the provision of after-market products and services. The U.S. digital printing peripherals equipment market, including related services, is estimated by industry sources to be over $57 billion in 2008. The office imaging industry is comprised of traditional large office equipment and copier manufacturers, as copy and printer technologies continue to converge, traditional desktop and network printer companies. Office imaging products are sold primarily through four channels: distributors, original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, independent dealers and retail outlets like office supply big box stores. There are several trends that are prevalent in the office imaging industry, including: • Evolution of office workflow process. The process of distributing information in the workplace has evolved over recent years through technological advances in communication, most notably electronic document delivery via e-mail and the Internet. While documents have traditionally been produced on a copier and then distributed to the relevant working groups, electronic document delivery has allowed documents to first be distributed electronically and then printed by the end user on—demand using the printer linked to the end user’s personal computer or stored for later use. This evolution has led to an 10 Table of Contents increase of printed documents from desktop and network printers and a decrease in copier document volumes. As a result competition from non-traditional copier companies, such as manufacturers of desktop and network printers, has increased. Networking of computer systems with printers, digital copiers and MFP’s allows printed material to be routed to the most efficient or cost-effective device. • Shift from selling boxes to selling solutions. The growth in the volume of documents printed from lower volume, desktop and network printers has substantially increased end users’ per image cost for printed material. The ability of digital copiers and MFPs to be connected to the information technology network has provided an opportunity for end users to reduce their per image costs while optimizing the use of their imaging equipment. As companies look to reduce costs, they are increasingly requesting comprehensive solutions including analysis and assessments of their document requirements from their document imaging vendors. These solutions and services involve both equipment and related software and service offerings that allow them to better meet their document imaging needs, and optimize the use of their installed equipment. As such, most leading document imaging vendors are moving away from the analog “box sale” approach to one of being a provider of solutions and diagnostic services that can identify and best satisfy their customers’ print and document needs on a more efficient and cost-effective basis. • Increasing demand for color. Customers continue to demand high-performance machines that produce presentation-quality documents, leading to an interest in and demand for color equipment. The emergence of digital copiers, MFPs and lower-cost color-capable copiers allows companies to increase their level of in-house document production beyond desk top printers, and produce presentation-quality copies for meetings, presentations and mailings. The transition to color is accelerating according to industry sources, and represents an increasingly important and growing segment of the market, offering higher revenue growth opportunities for companies in the office imaging industry compared to the black and white market. As the demand for color systems and products continues to grow, and additional manufacturers enter the market we expect the equipment average selling price and associated service and supplies pricing to decline going forward. Products and Services Office Imaging Systems We offer a large selection of the top brands of office imaging products as part of our document solutions packages. These products represent a full complement of digital and color copiers, digital and color MFPs, printers and facsimile machines, as well as related software, service, parts and supplies. We sell high-volume products, which include the Kodak Digimaster, Canon iR 7105, as well as the Toshiba e-Studio series of digital products. In the mid-volume segments for color and black and white, we sell the full range of Canon iR and Toshiba e-Studio series digital copiers and MFPs. In addition, we sell a full complement of front end print server equipment and a portfolio of applications software which enhances the features and functions of the equipment. For example, among other things, certain of these software products: • convert paper information to digital formats and allow the reproduction of documents in a variety of formats; • help customers acquire, manage, store and retrieve documents in a secure manner; • permit the scanning of paper documents and importation of electronic files and emails; and • allow for “smart” distribution of print jobs across a range of printing devices. Technical Services We also offer a broad range of field technical services which primarily involve the service and maintenance of our MIF. Our network of field engineers is dedicated to ensuring that customers get maximum up time from 11 Table of Contents their investment in our office imaging systems. Our field engineers are highly trained and capable of servicing multiple equipment brands and are equipped with the experience, training, tools and parts necessary to ensure that customers are provided with rapid response time and first-time fix capability. Recently, we began the implementation of a state of the art PDA system called Danka ESP. Once fully operational, field engineers will be dispatched and have access to a computerized warehouse system that stocks thousands of parts for immediate delivery to customers. In addition, these field engineers will be equipped with laptop computers which contain reference materials and diagnostic software to assist with the early resolution of customer issues. We generally offer our technical services pursuant to contracts. Our service and supply contracts typically have an initial term of one to three years and renew automatically thereafter. Professional Services and Software We offer a portfolio of value-added service and software offerings that provide our customers with efficiency and cost savings opportunities, as well as provide us with supplemental revenue streams. Through our field deployed systems engineers and analysts we provide consulting and diagnostic services to our customers to help them identify opportunities to reduce print costs, optimize the use of their office imaging equipment and improve their employees’ productivity by integrating our software solutions to leverage their investment in their imaging equipment. This expert guidance is backed by our world-class Digital Solutions Center that replicates customer environments and provides advanced online diagnostic and support services. The group’s services include: • copy, print, and fax assessment, which assists customers in assessing their document production costs by recommending document management system enhancements; • scanning and document management, which assists customers in identifying opportunities for document capture and retrieval and reduces the cost of document management and storage; • copy and print accounting, which implements cost tracking systems for document output and integrates copy and print accounting with the customer’s financial infrastructure; • digital workflow, which assists customers in creating scaleable output solutions and customizes and configures hardware and software; • color management, which is advice to customers on the most effective color management tools available for graphics, production or corporate environments; • legacy data management, which enables customers to print legacy data from a variety of mainframes on the latest digital MFPs using open architecture software and printing platforms; • custom training solutions, which provide customers a broad portfolio of instructor-led training by manufacturer-certified trainers; and • digitally connected support, which provides customers an exclusive help desk resource that consolidates support for hardware, printing and applications, software and print network issues. Competition The industry in which we operate is highly competitive. We have competitors in all markets in which we operate, and our competitors include a number of companies worldwide with significant technological, distribution and financial resources. Competition in our industry is based largely upon technology, performance, pricing, quality, reliability, distribution, customer service and support and lease and rental financing. In addition, our equipment suppliers continue to establish themselves as direct competitors in many of the areas in which we 12 Table of Contents do business. Some manufacturers of products in our industry have been consolidating in an attempt to gain market share and reduce costs. As such, the availability of certain products may become constrained or such products may become unavailable. Such consolidations may negatively impact our relationships with certain of our partners within the industry. Besides competition from within the office imaging industry, we are also experiencing competition from other sources as a result of evolving technology, including the development of alternative means of document processing, retention, storage and printing. Our retail operations are in direct competition with local and regional equipment suppliers and dealers, manufacturers, mass merchandisers and wholesale clubs. We have suffered, and may continue to suffer, a reduction of our market share because of the high level of competition in our industry. The intense competition in our industry may result in pressure on the prices and margins that we can obtain for our products and may affect our ability to retain customers. Employees As of March 31, 2007, we employed approximately 2,130 persons. Trademarks and Service Marks We believe that our trademarks and service marks have gained recognition in the office imaging and document management industry and are important to our marketing efforts. We have registered various trademarks and service marks. In particular, we believe that the trademarks “Danka,” and “Danka @ the Desktop” are important to our ongoing business. Our policy is to continue to pursue registration of our marks whenever possible and to vigorously oppose any infringement of our proprietary rights. Depending on the jurisdiction, trademarks and service marks are valid as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained, and they have not been found to become generic. Registrations of trademarks and service marks in the United States can generally be renewed indefinitely as long as the trademarks and service marks are in use. Backlog Backlogs are not material to our business. ITEM 1A. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 