ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks described below could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. The risks below are not the only risks that ABX faces. Additional risks that are currently unknown to us or that we currently consider immaterial or unlikely could also adversely affect ABX. We rely on a single customer for substantially all of our revenue and operating cash flows. We rely on DHL for substantially all of ABX’s revenues and the majority of ABX’s net operating cash flows. DHL competes in the U.S. against Federal Express Corporation and United Parcel Services, Inc. each of which has significant resources, market penetration and brand recognition. DHL has incurred large operating losses in the U.S. since its acquisition of Airborne in 2003. DHL has placed increasing pressure on its vendors and services providers, including ABX, to reduce costs and improving productivity in the aftermath of these losses. ABX may experience declines in its revenues and operating cash flows as a result of volume reductions from DHL. DHL could reduce the scope of service provided by ABX. DHL can, after a contractual advance notice period, reduce the scope of services that ABX provides under the ACMI or Hub Services agreements. For example, DHL can reduce the number of aircraft or the number of routes that we fly or DHL can transfer the management of any or all of the hubs that we operate. Since 2003, DHL has assumed administration of charters for tertiary markets that ABX previously contracted from other airlines, transferred the international gateway operations from ABX, removed seven ABX aircraft from service under the ACMI agreement, and given ABX notification of its intent to remove line-haul services and management of the Allentown, Pennsylvania regional hub from the Hub Services agreement. We have a credit facility agreement that subjects ABX to covenants and stipulates events of default. The removal of services from the ACMI or Hub Services agreement could trigger a covenant violation or result in a condition of default that could limit our use of the credit facility. ABX is dependent upon the economic conditions in the U.S. An economic downturn in the U.S. is likely to adversely affect demand for delivery services offered by DHL, in particular expedited services shipped via aircraft. During an economic slowdown, customers generally use ground-based delivery services instead of more expensive air delivery services. A prolonged economic slowdown may increase the likelihood that DHL would reduce the scope of services we provide under the ACMI agreement. Although the cost of jet fuel does not directly affect our net earnings, increased prices of jet fuel could also reduce the demand for air delivery services from DHL or our other ACMI customers. Certain terms of the ACMI agreement and Hub Services agreement with DHL may adversely affect ABX’s operating results. Under the ACMI agreement and Hub Services agreement, if we do not meet certain performance standards, after a cure period, DHL may terminate the ACMI agreement and Hub Services agreement prior to the end of their respective terms. A recurring work slowdown or strike by one or more groups of employees, such as our mechanics, sorters or flight crews could adversely impact our operating performance. These events could result in reductions by DHL to the scope of services we provide under the DHL agreements, leading to the termination of those agreements. 10 Table of Contents Although the ACMI agreement and Hub Services agreement with DHL are structured as cost plus arrangements, the costs for which we can be reimbursed are subject to certain limitations. For instance, labor rate increases are capped at predetermined levels and certain other costs are non-reimbursable. Accordingly, if labor costs sharply increase or we incur excessive non-reimbursable costs, there can be no assurance that the revenues from these agreements will generate sufficient income to recover our costs. DHL can dispute whether expenses we have incurred are reimbursable under the agreements. The agreements give DHL the right to audit our expenses. Further, the agreements stipulate dispute and arbitration procedures. Our earnings could be negatively impacted if disputed expenses are not reimbursed by DHL. The ACMI agreement with DHL may limit our ability to provide services to third parties. The ACMI agreement limits our ability to use the aircraft designated for use under the ACMI agreement to perform services for parties other than DHL by permitting such use only if (1) it does not interfere in any material respect with ABX’s performance of ACMI services for DHL, (2) ABX does not solicit DHL’s customers in competition with DHL, (3) it does not involve ABX providing air cargo transportation services to major integrated international air express delivery companies with annual revenues in excess of $5 billion (other than the U.S. Postal Service or any affiliate of DHL) and (4) an ABX event of default shall not have occurred and be continuing. ABX is making a significant investment in Boeing 767 aircraft. We are adding 12 Boeing 767 aircraft to the ABX in-service fleet through 2008. These aircraft are not included in the ACMI agreement with DHL. Our future operating results and financial condition will depend on our ability to successfully deploy these aircraft in activities that provide a positive return on our investment. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain and operate additional cargo volumes with customers other than DHL. We intend to convert the aircraft to a standard freighter configuration. We plan to finance the cost of modifying the aircraft with existing cash and contractor-provided financing during the modification period. Upon completion of the modification, we anticipate some aircraft will be sold and leased back to ABX through a syndication process being arranged by our lead bank. Currently the financing is not committed but we except to finalize an arrangement in 2006. Our future operating results will be affected by the interest rates, limits and other terms and conditions of the new borrowings or leases. See page 19 for further discussion of these aircraft. If insurance coverage becomes unavailable, it would adversely affect our ability to operate. Following the terrorist attack of September 11, 2001, commercial insurance providers initially cancelled war risk liability insurance coverage and thereafter began offering such coverage on a more limited basis and at substantially higher rates. For this reason, the U.S. government has been and is continuing to offer war risk insurance to U.S. airlines at rates below the commercial insurance market. The U.S. government has committed to offer war risk insurance to airlines through December 31, 2006, after which it may be necessary to procure war risk insurance in the commercial market. The war risk insurance available to airlines in the commercial market may be more limited in coverage and/or may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. Although we believe that our insurance coverage is adequate, there can be no assurance that the amount of such coverage will not be changed upon renewal or that we will not be forced to bear substantial losses from accidents. Substantial claims resulting from an accident could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and could affect our ability to obtain insurance in the future. Penalties, fines, and sanctions levied by governmental agencies or the costs of complying with government regulations could negatively affect our results of operations. Our operations are subject to complex aviation, transportation, environmental, labor, employment and other laws and regulations. These laws and regulations generally require us to maintain and comply with a wide variety 11 Table of Contents of certificates, permits, licenses and other approvals. Our inability to maintain required certificates, permits or licenses, or to comply with applicable laws, ordinances or regulations, could result in substantial fines or, in the case of DOT and FAA requirements, possible revocation of our authority to conduct our operations. All aircraft in our in-service fleet of 112 aircraft were manufactured prior to 1990. The average ages of our Boeing 767, DC-8 and DC-9 aircraft are approximately 21, 37 and 35 years, respectively. Manufacturer Service Bulletins and the FAA Airworthiness Directives issued under its “Aging Aircraft” program cause aircraft operators of such aged aircraft to be subject to extensive aircraft examinations and require such aircraft to undergo structural inspections and modifications to address problems of corrosion and structural fatigue at specified times. Airworthiness Directives have been issued that require inspections and both major and minor modifications to such aircraft. It is possible that additional Service Bulletins or Airworthiness Directives applicable to the types of aircraft or engines included in our fleet could be issued in the future. The cost of compliance with Airworthiness Directives and of following Service Bulletins cannot currently be reasonably estimated but could be substantial. ABX is currently a party to legal proceedings involving governmental regulations. We could incur significant expenses to meet governmental requests for information, file briefings or defend ABX’s positions with respect to regulations. ABX and a few employees in our Human Resources Department are currently the targets of a criminal investigation by the U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”) regarding whether we violated U.S. immigration laws in respect of our use of contract employees being supplied to us by Garcia Labor, Inc., a temporary employment agency. While ABX believes that neither it nor its employees engaged in any wrongdoing, the investigation could result in proceedings being initiated against the Company. In the event proceedings were initiated against ABX that resulted in an adverse finding, ABX could be subjected to a financial penalty that is materially greater than the amount we have accrued and restrictions on our ability to engage in business with agencies of the U.S. Government. Our operations are geographically concentrated. Our aircraft repair station, headquarters, and principal site of hub services is located in Wilmington, Ohio. If these facilities were damaged or our access to these facilities was limited, for example, due to security concerns, severe weather or natural disaster, our operations and financial conditions could be adversely affected. Failure to maintain ABX’s operating certificates and authorities would adversely affect our business. We have the necessary authority to conduct flight operations within the U.S. and maintain a Domestic All-Cargo Air Service Certificate for our domestic services, a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity for Route 377 for our Canada service, and an Air Carrier Operating Certificate issued to ABX by the FAA. The continued effectiveness of such authority is subject to our compliance with applicable statutes and DOT and FAA rules and regulations, including any new rules and regulations that may be adopted in the future. Under U.S. laws and DOT precedents, non-U.S. citizens may not own more than 25% of, or have actual control of, a U.S. certificated air carrier. The separation of ABX from Airborne required us to file a notice of a substantial change with the DOT. In connection with the filing, the DOT will determine whether ABX continues to be fit, willing and able to engage in air transportation of cargo and a U.S. citizen. The DOT may determine that DHL actually controls ABX as a result of the commercial arrangements (in particular, the ACMI agreement and the Hub Services agreement) between ABX and DHL. If the DOT determined that ABX was controlled by DHL, the DOT could bring an enforcement action against ABX to revoke its certificates. The DOT could take action requiring ABX to show cause that it is a U.S. citizen and that it is fit, willing and able to engage in air transportation of cargo, or requiring amendments or modifications of the ACMI agreement, the Hub Services agreement or the other transaction documents. If we were unable to modify such agreements to the satisfaction of the DOT, the DOT may seek to suspend, modify or revoke our air carrier certificates and/or authorities. The loss of our authorities, including in the situation described above, would materially and adversely affect our operations and would effectively eliminate our ability to operate the air services. 12 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 