ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks described below could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. The risks below are not the only risks that the Company faces. Additional risks that are currently unknown to us or that we currently consider immaterial or unlikely could also adversely affect the Company. Revenues and operating results from a new CMI agreement with DHL may be less than planned. We have recently negotiated follow-on long-term Boeing 767 aircraft operating agreement with DHL. Unlike our previous agreements with DHL, the new CMI agreement is not a cost-plus agreement; instead ABX revenues will be based primarily on the number of aircraft operated and the number of crews provided to DHL. The negotiated pricing structure with DHL was based on our cost projections for the next five years. Those 9 Table of Contents projections contained key assumptions including aircraft reliability, crewmember productivity and crewmember compensation and benefits. If actual costs are higher than assumed or aircraft reliability is less than expected, future operating results may be negatively impacted. The Company’s financial condition will be affected by the degree to which it recovers contract termination costs from DHL. The ACMI agreement, Hub Services agreement and S&R agreement with DHL are structured as cost-plus or cost reimbursement arrangements; however, the costs for which ABX can be reimbursed are subject to certain limitations. DHL can dispute whether expenses ABX has incurred are reimbursable under the agreements. The agreements give DHL, within reason, certain rights to audit ABX’s expenses. Further, the agreements stipulate dispute and arbitration procedures. If ABX incurs excessive non-reimbursable costs, there is no assurance that the revenues from these agreements will generate sufficient income for ABX to recover its costs. ABX has incurred significant termination and restructuring costs as a result of DHL’s decision to restructure its U.S. business. Such costs include aircraft, equipment and property lease termination costs, maintenance agreement termination costs, severance benefits, injured workers’ compensation and pension and retiree medical funding. As of December 31, 2009, DHL owes the Company $62.7 million. Conversely, the Company has significant liabilities and commitments stemming from the wind-down of DHL’s operations, including employee severance, retention and benefits. The Company’s liquidity and financial condition will depend on ABX’s contractual termination rights and cash settlements from DHL. Failure to receive reimbursement of contractual termination costs, including aircraft put values and employee severance and other wind-down costs, could result in arbitration or legal proceedings. If there is a significant delay in cash reimbursements from DHL, or a substantial reduction in the amounts that DHL pays, the Company’s cash balances could decline. If ABX is not successful at recovering sufficient termination funds from DHL, the Company may need additional sources of liquidity. In the absence of such sources, the Company may seek to sell assets to raise liquidity or the Company could elect to reduce capital spending by deferring the freighter modification of Boeing 767 aircraft. Operating results may be negatively impacted if the Company were to take a charge to reduce amounts due from DHL or to lower the value of aircraft held for sale. The economic conditions in the U.S. and throughout the globe have impacted and may continue to impact the Company’s operating results, financial condition and access to liquidity. A global economic downturn could reduce the demand for delivery services offered by DHL, BAX and other delivery businesses, in particular expedited services shipped via aircraft. During an economic slowdown, customers generally prefer to use ground-based delivery services instead of more expensive air delivery services. Additionally, if the price of aviation fuel rises, the demand for air delivery services may decline further. The current economic slowdown could negatively affect our growth prospects and financial projections more severely than we have projected. Tight credit markets could impact the Company’s future access to liquidity. Although the Company’s current credit agreement extends through December 31, 2012, tight credit markets could affect the Company’s future access to liquidity. If a lender within the credit agreement declares an MAE, availability under the revolving credit facility will be reduced by the lender’s portion of the facility. Further, the credit agreement provides that if lenders having more than half of the outstanding dollar amount of the commitments assert that an MAE exists at the time the Company attempts to borrow under the credit agreement, they can assert an event of default exists under the credit agreement and require the agent to exercise its remedies. If an event of default occurs, the Company may be forced to repay, renegotiate or replace the credit agreement. Given the current tight credit markets, the interest rates and other costs of a renegotiated or new 10 Table of Contents facility, if one can be obtained, would be more expensive and may require more rapid amortization of principal than under the terms of the current credit agreement. After the expiration of the current credit agreement in 2012, costs may be higher. The Company could violate debt covenants. The Company’s Credit Agreement and aircraft loans contain covenants including, among other things, limitations on certain additional indebtedness, guarantees of indebtedness, and the level of annual capital expenditures. The Credit Agreement and loans stipulate events of default including unspecified events that may have material adverse effects on the Company. If an event of default occurs, the Company’s cost of borrowings would increase, the contractual repayment of debt would accelerate and the Company’s ability to modify and redeploy Boeing 767 aircraft could be limited. Our cost of providing ACMI services could be more than the contractual revenues generated. The airlines each develop business plans for ACMI, charter and other operating contracts by projecting crewmembers costs, crew productivity and maintenance expenses. We may underestimate the actual costs of providing services or the level of crewmembers, productivity when preparing for new business opportunities. The Company’s three airlines rely on crews that are unionized. The collective bargaining agreement for ABX was recently renegotiated and the collective bargaining agreement at the Company’s other two airlines are currently open for renegotiation. If the renegotiation of a collective bargaining agreement increases our costs and we cannot recover the increases in costs, we may decide to terminate contracts or curtail planned growth. Airline operations could be interrupted and business could be adversely affected if agreements are not reached with the crewmembers. The Company continues to make significant investments in Boeing 767 aircraft which may affect the Company’s operating results and financial condition. The Company, through its subsidiaries, plans to make capital investments to modify additional Boeing 767 standard freighter aircraft for service through 2011. Our future operating results and financial condition will depend in part on our subsidiaries’ ability to successfully deploy these aircraft in operations that provide a positive return on investment. Our success will depend, in part, on their ability to obtain and operate additional cargo volumes with customers other than DHL and BAX, including international markets. Deploying aircraft in international markets can pose additional risks, regulatory requirements and costs. The Company’s future operating results will be affected by the interest rates, limits and other terms and conditions of the borrowing agreements. The ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes may be further limited. Limitations imposed on the ability to use net operating losses (“NOLs”) to offset future taxable income could cause U.S. federal income taxes to be paid earlier than otherwise would be paid if such limitations were not in effect and could cause such NOLs to expire unused, in each case reducing or eliminating the benefit of such NOLs. Similar rules and limitations may apply for state income tax purposes. In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change NOLs to offset future taxable income. In general, an ownership change occurs if the aggregate stock ownership of certain stockholders increases by more than 50 percentage points over such stockholders’ lowest percentage ownership during the testing period (generally three years). The Company has at times experienced significant ownership changes. If the Company continues to experience more ownership changes, we may face limitations on our ability to use NOLs to offset future taxable income. 11 Table of Contents We may need to reduce the carrying value of the Company’s assets. The Company owns a significant amount of aircraft, aircraft parts and related equipment. Additionally, the balance sheet reflects assets for income tax carryforwards and other deferred tax assets. The removal of aircraft from service or continual losses from aircraft operations could require the Company to evaluate the recoverability of the carrying value of those aircraft, related parts and equipment in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification (“FASB ASC”) Topic 360-10 Property, Plant, and Equipment and result in an impairment charge. As a result of acquiring CHI, we have recorded significant amounts of goodwill and acquisition-related intangibles, which will be tested for impairment at least annually. If we are unable to achieve the projected levels of operating results and these assets are impaired, it may be necessary to record a non-cash charge to earnings. If the Company incurs operating losses or our estimates of expected future earnings indicate a decline, it may be necessary to reassess the need for a valuation allowance for some or all of the Company’s net deferred tax assets. Penalties, fines, and sanctions levied by governmental agencies or the costs of complying with government regulations could negatively affect our results of operations. The operations of the Company’s subsidiaries’ are subject to complex aviation, transportation, environmental, labor, employment and other laws and regulations. These laws and regulations generally require our subsidiaries to maintain and comply with a wide variety of certificates, permits, licenses and other approvals. Their inability to maintain required certificates, permits or licenses, or to comply with applicable laws, ordinances or regulations could result in substantial fines or, in the case of DOT and FAA requirements, possible suspension or revocation of their authority to conduct operations. The costs of complying with government regulations could negatively affect our results of operations. All aircraft in the Company’s airline subsidiaries’ in-service fleets were manufactured prior to 1990. Manufacturer Service Bulletins and the FAA Airworthiness Directives issued under its “Aging Aircraft” program cause operators of such aged aircraft to be subject to extensive aircraft examinations and require such aircraft to undergo structural inspections and modifications to address problems of corrosion and structural fatigue at specified times. Airworthiness Directives have been issued that require inspections and both major and minor modifications to such aircraft. The FAA is currently considering the issuance of an airworthiness directive that would require the replacement of the aft pressure bulkhead on Boeing 767-200 aircraft based on a certain number of landing cycles. If such an Airworthiness Directive is issued, all of the Boeing 767s within the Company will be affected over approximately a seven year period. The cost of compliance is estimated to be $1.0 million per aircraft. The Company is subject to the regulations of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and state and local governments regarding air quality and other matters. In part, because of the highly industrialized nature of many of the locations at which the Company operates, there can be no assurance that we have discovered all environmental contamination for which the Company may be responsible. Failure to maintain the operating certificates and authorities of ABX, ATI and CCIA would adversely affect our business. The airline subsidiaries have the necessary authority to conduct flight operations within the U.S. and maintain Domestic All-Cargo Air Service Certificates for their domestic services, a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity for Route 377 for ABX’s Canada service, and Air Carrier Operating Certificates issued by the FAA. The continued effectiveness of such authority is subject to their compliance with applicable statutes and DOT, FAA and TSA rules and regulations, including any new rules and regulations that may be adopted in the future. 12 Table of Contents Under U.S. laws and DOT precedents, non-U.S. citizens may not own more than 25% of, or have actual control of, a U.S. certificated air carrier. The separation of ABX from Airborne required it to file a notice of a substantial change with the DOT. In connection with the filing, the DOT will determine whether ABX continues to be a U.S. citizen and fit, willing and able to engage in air transportation of cargo. The DOT may determine that DHL actually controls ABX as a result of the commercial arrangements between ABX and DHL. If the DOT determined that ABX was controlled by DHL, the DOT could bring an enforcement action against ABX to revoke its certificates. The DOT could take action requiring ABX to show cause that it is a U.S. citizen and that it is fit, willing and able to engage in air transportation of cargo, or requiring amendments or modifications of the DHL ACMI agreement, the Hub Services agreement or the other transaction documents. If ABX was unable to modify these agreements to the satisfaction of the DOT, the DOT may seek to suspend, modify or revoke its air carrier certificates and/or authorities. The loss of the airlines’ authorities, including in the situation described above, would materially and adversely affect our airline operations and would effectively eliminate our ability to operate the air services. The Company may be affected by global climate change or by legal, regulatory or market responses to such potential climate change. Concern over climate change, including the impact of global warming, has led to significant federal, state, and international legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. The U.S. Congress has considered the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. Also, the Environmental Protection Agency could regulate greenhouse gas emissions, especially aircraft engine emissions. The cost to comply with potential new laws and regulations could be substantial for the Company. These costs could include an increase in the cost of the fuel and capital costs associated with updating aircraft. Until the timing, scope and extent of any future regulation becomes known, we cannot predict its effect on the Company’s cost structure or operating results. Reporting of financial results could be delayed. Disagreements between ABX and DHL over the cost reimbursement provisions of the agreements with each other or arbitration proceedings could delay future financial filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Company’s lenders. The Company’s failure to file financial reports timely could adversely impact compliance with the Company’s credit agreement. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 