ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSThe risks described below could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. The risks below are not the only risks that the Company faces. Additional risks that are currently unknown to us or that we currently consider immaterial or unlikely could also adversely affect the Company.The economic conditions in the U.S. and throughout the globe may negatively impact the demand for the Company’s aircraft and services. Air cargo transportation volumes are strongly correlated to general economic conditions, including the price of aviation fuel. An economic downturn could reduce the demand for delivery services offered by DHL and other delivery businesses, in particular expedited services shipped via aircraft. Accordingly, an economic downturn could reduce the demand for airlift and cargo aircraft leases. Further, during an economic slowdown, customers generally prefer to use ground-based or marine delivery services instead of more expensive air delivery services. Additionally, if the price of aviation fuel rises significantly, the demand for cargo aircraft and air delivery services may decline below expectations. During periods of downward economic trends and uncertainty, freight forwarders and integrated delivery businesses are more likely to defer market expansion plans. As a result, we may experience delays in the deployment of available aircraft with customers under lease, ACMI or charter arrangements. The rate of aircraft deployments may impact the Company’s operating results and financial condition.The Company's future operating results and financial condition will depend in part on our subsidiaries’ ability to successfully deploy aircraft in operations that provide a positive return on investment. Our success will depend, in part, on their ability to secure additional cargo volumes from customers, in both U.S. and international markets. Deploying aircraft in international markets can pose additional risks, regulatory requirements and costs.The actual demand for Boeing 767 and 757 aircraft may be less than we anticipate. The actual lease rates for aircraft available for lease may be less than we projected, or new leases may start later than we expect. Further, other airlines and lessors may be willing to offer aircraft to the market under terms more favorable to lessees.Our costs incurred in providing airline services could be more than the contractual revenues generated.Each airline develops business plans for ACMI, charter and other operating contracts by projecting operating costs, crew productivity and maintenance expenses. Projections contain key assumptions, including flight hours, aircraft reliability, crewmember productivity and crewmember compensation and benefits. We may overestimate revenues, the level of crewmember productivity, and/or underestimate the actual costs of providing services when preparing for new business opportunities. If actual costs are higher than projected or aircraft reliability is less than expected, future operating results may be negatively impacted. The Company’s airlines rely on flight crews that are unionized. If collective bargaining agreements increase our costs and we cannot recover such increases, it may be necessary for us to terminate customer contracts or curtail planned growth. If disagreements arise, airline operations could be interrupted and business could be adversely affected until agreements are reached with the crewmembers.Our airline operating agreements include on-time reliability requirements which can impact the Company's operating results and financial condition.Our airline operating agreements may contain monthly incentive payments for reaching specific on-time reliability thresholds. Additionally, our airline operating agreements may contain monetary penalties if aircraft reliability falls below certain monthly thresholds. As a result, our operating revenues may vary from period to period depending on the achievement of monthly incentives or the imposition of penalties. Further, an airline could be found in default of an agreement if it does not maintain minimum thresholds over an extended period of time. If ABX fails to maintain aircraft reliability above a minimum threshold in DHL's U.S. domestic network for two consecutive calendar months or three months in a rolling twelve month period, ABX would be in default of the CMI agreement with DHL. In that event, DHL may elect to terminate the CMI agreement, unless ABX maintains the minimum reliability threshold during a 60-day cure period. If DHL terminates the CMI agreement due to an ABX event of default, ABX would be subject to a monetary penalty payable to DHL. The penalty through the remaining initial term of the CMI agreement would be $10 million. 11Under provisions of the CMI and lease agreements with DHL, DHL can terminate the CMI or lease agreements subject to early termination provisions. DHL may terminate the CMI agreement for convenience at any time during the initial five-year term (through March 30, 2015) on the date that it ceases operating or causing to be operated the aircraft on air routes for which the origin and destination are within the United States, subject to providing six months notice and paying to ABX a termination fee. The termination fee started at $70 million on March 31, 2011, and amortizes to zero during the remaining four year initial term of the CMI agreement. DHL may terminate one or more of the aircraft leases for convenience, upon providing six months' notice and paying to CAM a lump sum amount equal to six months' rent. DHL may also terminate one or more aircraft leases at any time after the first 54 months of the term of the CMI agreement, in the event that DHL desires to transfer operational control of such aircraft, but is effectively restricted from doing so by the terms of the collective bargaining agreement between ABX and its pilots' union providing that members of the pilots' union have the right to follow the aircraft to another operator, subject to providing six months' notice and paying to CAM a lump sum amount equal to two months rent.The U.S. Military may not renew our contracts or may reduce the number of routes that we operate.Our contracts with the U.S. Military are typically for one year and are not required to be renewed. The U.S. Military may terminate the contracts for convenience or in the event we were to default for failure to satisfy reliability requirements or for other reasons. The number and frequency of routes is sensitive to changes in military priorities and U.S. defense budgets.Our business could be negatively impacted by adverse audit findings by the U.S. Government. Our U.S. Military contracts are subject to audit by government agencies, including with respect to performance, costs, internal controls and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. If an audit uncovers improprieties, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties, including termination of such contracts, forfeiture of profits, fines and suspension from doing business with the U.S. Military. Proposed rules from the DOT, FAA and TSA could increase the Company's operating costs and reduce customer utilization of airfreight.New FAA rules for Flightcrew Member Duty and Rest Requirements (FMDRR) for passenger airline operations became effective in January 2014. The new rules apply to our operation of combi aircraft for the U.S military and impact the required amount and timing of rest periods for pilots between work assignments and modified duty and rest requirements based on the time of day, number of scheduled segments, flight types, time zones and other factors. Compliance with these rules may increase our costs more than expected, while failure to remain in compliance with these rules may subject us to fines or other enforcement action. If applied to cargo carriers, the new rules would require a pilot to have the opportunity to rest for nine hours before reporting to flight duty and place other restrictions on the number of duty hours in particular time periods. In May 2012, the FAA indicated that it would reconsider its initial decision to exclude cargo pilots from these new requirements. While not currently required for the Company's cargo operations, if such rest requirements and restrictions were imposed on our cargo operations, these rules could have a significant impact on the costs incurred by our airlines. The airlines would attempt to pass such additional costs onto their customers in the form of price increases. Customers, as a result, may seek to reduce their utilization of aircraft in favor of less expensive transportation alternatives. The concentration of aircraft types and engines in the Company's airlines could adversely affect our operating and financial results. The combined aircraft fleet is concentrated in two aircraft types. If any of these aircraft types encounter technical difficulties that resulted in significant FAA Airworthiness Directives or grounding, our ability to lease the aircraft would be adversely impacted, as would our airlines' operations. The market growth in demand for the Boeing 767 and 757 aircraft types and configurations may be less than we anticipate. Customers may develop preferences for the Airbus A300-600 and A330 aircraft or other mid size aircraft types, instead of the Boeing 767 and 757 aircraft. The cost of aircraft repairs and unexpected delays in the time required to complete aircraft maintenance could negatively affect our operating results.Our aircraft provide ACMI services throughout the world, sometimes operating in remote regions. Our aircraft may experience maintenance events in locations that do not have the necessary repair capabilities or are difficult to 12reach. As a result, we may incur additional expenses and lose billable revenues that we would have otherwise earned. Under the CMI agreement with DHL, AMES provides scheduled airframe maintenance for the 13 Boeing 767 aircraft that DHL leases from CAM and we are required to provide a spare aircraft while the scheduled maintenance is completed. If delays occur in the completion of aircraft maintenance, we may incur additional expense to provide airlift capacity and forego revenues. We rely on third parties to modify aircraft and provide aircraft and engine maintenance. We rely on certain third party aircraft modification service providers and aircraft and engine maintenance service providers that have expertise or resources that we do not have. Third party service providers may seek to impose price increases that could negatively affect our competitiveness in the airline markets. An unexpected termination or delay involving service providers could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. A delay in an aircraft modification could adversely impact our revenues and our ability to place the aircraft in the market. We must manage third party service providers to meet schedules and turn-times and to control costs in order to remain competitive to our customers. Delta TechOps, a division of Delta Airlines, Inc, is the sole engine maintenance provider for the Company's General Electric CF6 engines that power our fleet of Boeing 767-200 aircraft. If Delta TechOps does not complete the refurbishment of our engines within the contractual turn-times or if we must replace DeltaTechOps as the maintenance provider for some or all of the Company's CF6 engines, our operations and financial results may be adversely impacted. The Company's operating results could be negatively impacted by disruptions of its information technology and communication systems. Our businesses depend heavily on information technology and computerized systems to communicate and operate effectively. The Company's systems and technologies, or those of third party's on which we rely, could fail or become unreliable due to equipment failures, software viruses, cyberattacks, natural disasters, power failures or other causes. Certain disruptions could prevent our airlines from flying as scheduled, possibly for an extended period of time, which could have a negative impact on our operating results and reliability. We continually monitor the risks of disruption, take preventative measures, develop backup plans and maintain redundancy capabilities. However, the measures we use may not prevent the causes of disruptions we could experience or help us recover failed systems quickly. The costs incurred in expanding our aircraft maintenance facilities could negatively impact our financial results.We have agreed to a long term lease of a new 100,000 square foot maintenance hangar, in Wilmington, Ohio that is currently under construction and expected to be completed in 2014. The new hangar is being built in anticipation of additional aircraft maintenance contracts, including the ability to house Boeing 747 and 777 aircraft. As construction agent, we are responsible for managing the construction costs of the project. Additionally, we could incur incremental operating costs associated with the new hangar, including costs associated with employing additional aircraft maintenance personnel, before it is completed. Further, we will need to grow the Company's aircraft maintenance revenues utilizing the expanded capabilities by securing additional business. Those anticipated level of revenues may not coincide with our costs of operating the new facility. The Company could violate debt covenants.The Senior Credit Agreement contains covenants including, among other requirements, limitations on certain additional indebtedness and guarantees of indebtedness. The Senior Credit Agreement is collateralized by certain of the Company's Boeing 767 and 757 aircraft that are not collateralized under aircraft loans. Under the terms of the Senior Credit Agreement, the Company is required to maintain aircraft collateral coverage equal to 150% of the outstanding balance of the term loan and the maximum capacity of the revolving credit facility. The Senior Credit Agreement stipulates events of default, including unspecified events that may have material adverse effects on the Company. The Senior Credit Agreement and aircraft loans cross default. If an event of default occurs, the Company may be forced to repay, renegotiate or replace the Senior Credit Agreement and loans. In such an event, the Company’s cost of borrowings could increase, and our ability to modify and deploy aircraft could be limited as a result.The Company's existing sources of liquidity may not be sufficient if opportunities to expand the aircraft fleet arise. While we have not planned for additional aircraft acquisitions for 2014, opportunities to grow revenues could arise that require more aircraft or an aircraft type that we do not currently have. As of December 31, 2013, the Company's liquidity included $31.7 million of cash balance and $74.3 million available under the revolving credit facility through 13the Senior Credit Agreement. The existing sources of liquidity may not be sufficient to support a fleet expansion. We may need additional sources of credit to acquire and modify additional aircraft. If sources of credit are not available when we need the funds, the fleet expansion could be delayed. Further, additional sources of credit could result in an increase in our borrowing costs and additional covenant requirements. Operating results may be affected by fluctuations in interest rates. Effective March 31, 2011, in conjunction with our decision to refinance the unsubordinated term loan, we ceased hedge accounting for certain interest rate swaps which we continue to hold. In addition to these interest rate swaps, the Company's Senior Credit Agreement requires the Company to maintain derivative instruments for fluctuating interest rates for at least 50% of the outstanding balance of the new unsubordinated term loan. Accordingly, in July 2011, the Company entered into new derivative instruments. Also, in June 2013, the Company entered into an interest rate swap with a forward start date of December 31, 2013. We did not designate the derivative instruments as hedges. Future fluctuations in LIBOR interest rates will result in the recording of gains and losses on interest rate derivatives that the Company holds. Under the Senior Credit Agreement, interest rates are adjusted quarterly based on the prevailing LIBOR or prime rates and a ratio of the Company's outstanding debt level to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization expenses ("EBITDA"). At the Company's current debt-to-EBITDA ratio, the unsubordinated term loan and the revolving credit facility both bear a variable interest rate of 2.55%. Additional debt or lower EBITDA may result in higher interest rates on the variable rate portion of the Company's debt. The Company sponsors defined benefit pension plans and post-retirement healthcare plans for certain eligible employees. The Company's related pension expense and funding requirements are sensitive to changes in interest rates used to discount the estimated future benefits payments that have been earned by participants in the plans. The annual pension expense is recalculated at the beginning of each calendar year using market interest rates at that point in time. Future fluctuations in interest rates could result in the recording of additional expense for pension and other post-retirement healthcare plans.The costs of insurance coverage or changes to our reserves for self insured claims could affect our operating results and cash flows.U.S. government has been offering war risk insurance to U.S. airlines following the terrorist attack of September 11, 2001. The U.S. government has committed to offer war risk insurance to airlines through 2014 after which it may be necessary to procure war risk insurance in the commercial market. The war risk insurance available to airlines in the commercial market may be more limited in coverage and/or may be more expensive than the premiums currently being paid. The Company is self-insured for certain claims related to workers’ compensation, aircraft, automobile, general liability and employee healthcare. We record a liability for reported claims and an estimate for incurred claims that have not yet been reported. Accruals for these claims are estimated utilizing historical paid claims data and recent claims trends. Changes in claim severity and frequency could impact our results of operations and cash flows. The ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes may be further limited.Limitations imposed on the ability to use net operating losses (“NOLs”) to offset future taxable income could cause U.S. federal income taxes to be paid earlier than otherwise would be paid if such limitations were not in effect and could cause such NOLs to expire unused, in each case reducing or eliminating the benefit of such NOLs. Similar rules and limitations may apply for state income tax purposes.Changes in the ownership of the Company on the part of significant shareholders could limit our ability to use NOLs to offset future taxable income. In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change NOLs to offset future taxable income. In general, an ownership change occurs if the aggregate stock ownership of significant stockholders increases by more than 50 percentage points over such stockholders’ lowest percentage ownership during the testing period (generally three years). 14We may need to reduce the carrying value of the Company’s assets.The Company owns a significant amount of aircraft, aircraft parts and related equipment. Additionally, the balance sheet reflects assets for income tax carryforwards and other deferred tax assets. The removal of aircraft from service or continual losses from aircraft operations could require us to evaluate the recoverability of the carrying value of those aircraft, related parts and equipment and record an impairment charge through earnings to reduce the carrying value.We have recorded goodwill and other intangible assets related to acquisitions. If we are unable to achieve the projected levels of operating results, it may be necessary to record an impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of goodwill and related intangible assets. Similarly, if we were to lose a key customer or one of our airlines were to lose its authority to operate, it could be necessary to record an impairment charge. If the Company incurs operating losses or our estimates of expected future earnings indicate a decline, it may be necessary to reassess the need for a valuation allowance for some or all of the Company’s net deferred tax assets.Penalties, fines and sanctions levied by governmental agencies or the costs of complying with government regulations could negatively affect our results of operations.The operations of the Company’s subsidiaries are subject to complex aviation, transportation, security, environmental, labor, employment and other laws and regulations. These laws and regulations generally require our subsidiaries to maintain and comply with a wide variety of certificates, permits, licenses and other approvals. Their inability to maintain required certificates, permits or licenses, or to comply with applicable laws, ordinances or regulations could result in substantial fines or, in the case of DOT and FAA requirements, possible suspension or revocation of their authority to conduct operations.The costs of maintaining our aircraft in compliance with government regulations could negatively affect our results of operations and require further investment in our aircraft fleet.All aircraft in the Company’s fleet were manufactured prior to 1995. Manufacturer Service Bulletins and FAA Airworthiness Directives issued under its “Aging Aircraft” program cause operators of such aged aircraft to be subject to extensive aircraft examinations and require such aircraft to undergo structural inspections and modifications to address problems of corrosion and structural fatigue at specified times. The FAA may issue Airworthiness Directives that could require significant inspections and major modifications to such aircraft. The FAA may issue Airworthiness Directives that could limit the usability of certain aircraft types. In 2012, the FAA issued an Airworthiness Directive that requires the replacement of the aft pressure bulkhead on Boeing 767-200 aircraft based on a certain number of landing cycles. As a result, we expect that 24 of the Company's Boeing 767-200 aircraft will be affected. The cost of compliance is estimated to be $0.5 to $0.7 million per aircraft over the next ten years.In addition, FAA regulations require that aircraft manufacturers establish limits on aircraft flight cycles to address issues involving older, but still economically viable, aircraft, as described in Item 1 of this report, under "Federal Aviation Administration." These regulations may increase our maintenance costs and eventually limit the use of our aircraft.The FAA and ICAO are in the process of developing programs to modernize air traffic control and management systems. The FAA's program, Next Generation Air Transportation Systems, is an integrated system that requires updating aircraft navigation and communication equipment. The FAA has mandated the replacement of current ground based radar systems with more accurate satellite based systems on our aircraft by 2020. The ICAO is phasing in similar requirements for aircraft operating in Europe, beginning in 2015. These programs may increase our costs and limit the use of our aircraft. Aircraft not equipped with advanced communication systems may be restricted to certain airspace.Failure to maintain the operating certificates and authorities of our airlines would adversely affect our business.The airline subsidiaries have the necessary authority to conduct flight operations pursuant to the economic authority issued by the DOT and the safety based authority issued by the FAA. The continued effectiveness of such authority is subject to their compliance with applicable statutes and DOT, FAA and TSA rules and regulations, including any new rules and regulations that may be adopted in the future. The loss of such authority by an airline subsidiary could cause a default of covenants within the Senior Credit Agreement and would materially and adversely affect its airline operations, effectively eliminating the airline's ability to operate air services. 15The Company may be affected by global climate change or by legal, regulatory or market responses to such potential climate change.The Company is subject to the regulations of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and state and local governments regarding air quality and other matters. In part, because of the highly industrialized nature of many of the locations where the Company operates, there can be no assurance that we have discovered all environmental contamination or other matters for which the Company may be responsible.Concern over climate change, including the impact of global warming, has led to significant federal, state and international legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. The European Commission has mandated the extension of the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme ("ETS") for greenhouse gas emissions to the airline industry. Beginning in 2012, all Company airline subsidiary flights to and from any airport in any member state of the European Union is covered by the ETS requirements, and each year we are required to submit emission allowances in an amount equal to the carbon dioxide emissions from such flights. Exceedance of the airlines' emission allowances would require the airlines to purchase additional emission allowances on the open market. The U.S. Congress and certain states have also considered the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency could regulate greenhouse gas emissions, especially aircraft engine emissions. The cost to comply with potential new laws and regulations could be substantial for the Company. These costs could include an increase in the cost of the fuel and capital costs associated with updating aircraft. Until the timing, scope and extent of any future regulation becomes known, we cannot predict its effect on the Company’s cost structure or operating results.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.