ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks described below could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. The risks below are not the only risks that ABX faces. Additional risks that are currently unknown to us or that we currently consider immaterial or unlikely could also adversely affect ABX. We rely on DHL for substantially all of our revenue and the majority of our operating cash flows. DHL could reduce the scope of service provided by ABX. DHL has placed increasing pressure on its vendors and services providers, including ABX, to reduce costs, improve productivity and stem its operating losses in the U.S. DHL competes in the U.S. against FedEx Corporation and United Parcel Services, Inc., each of which has significant resources, market penetration and brand recognition. ABX may experience declines in its revenues and operating cash flows if volume reductions are experienced by DHL. DHL can, after a contractual advance-notice period, reduce the scope of services that ABX provides under the ACMI or Hub Services agreements. For example, DHL can reduce the number of aircraft or the number of routes that we fly, or DHL can transfer the management of any or all of the hubs that we operate. Since 2003, DHL has assumed administration of charters for tertiary markets that ABX previously contracted from other airlines, transferred the international gateway operations from ABX, removed 28 ABX aircraft from service under the ACMI agreement, transferred the management of the line-haul network and transferred the management of the Allentown, Pennsylvania regional hub from ABX. Additionally, in February 2007, DHL notified ABX that it intends to assume management of the Riverside, California regional hub in June of 2007. 9 Table of Contents The term of the Hub Services agreement expires on August 15, 2007. The term will automatically renew for an additional year unless either party gives notice of termination on or before May 17, 2007. Termination of the Hub Services agreement would adversely impact our business, resulting in a significant decline in our revenues and earnings. As a condition to renewal, DHL may seek to negotiate new terms, possibly creating greater risk/reward opportunities related to the Company’s performance and cost controls or a reduction in the scope of services ABX provides to DHL. We have a credit facility and other debt agreements that subjects ABX to covenants and stipulates events of default. The removal of services from the ACMI or Hub Services agreement could trigger a covenant violation or result in a condition of default that could limit our use of the credit arrangements. Certain terms of the ACMI agreement and Hub Services agreement with DHL may adversely affect ABX’s operating results. Under the ACMI agreement and Hub Services agreement, if we do not meet certain performance standards, after a cure period, DHL may terminate the ACMI agreement and Hub Services agreement prior to the end of their respective terms. A recurring work slowdown or strike by one or more groups of employees, such as our mechanics, sorters or flight crews, could adversely impact our operating performance. These events could result in reductions by DHL to the scope of services we provide under the DHL agreements, leading to the termination of those agreements. Although the ACMI agreement and Hub Services agreement with DHL are structured as cost-plus arrangements, the costs for which we can be reimbursed are subject to certain limitations. For instance, labor rate increases are capped at predetermined levels and certain other costs are non-reimbursable. DHL can dispute whether expenses we have incurred are reimbursable under the agreements. The agreements give DHL the right to audit our expenses. Further, the agreements stipulate dispute and arbitration procedures. If labor costs sharply increase or we incur excessive non-reimbursable costs, there can be no assurance that the revenues from these agreements will generate sufficient income to recover our costs. For the purposes of internal reporting, ABX does not allocate overhead costs that are reimbursed by DHL to its non-DHL activities. The provisions of the commercial agreements with DHL do not require an allocation of overhead until such time as ABX derives more than 10% of its total revenue from non-DHL business activities. The 10% threshold may be reached through a combination of decreased DHL revenues and increased non-DHL revenues. After the 10% threshold is reached, a portion of our overhead expenses may be allocated to non-DHL activities and not subject to reimbursement under the DHL agreements. The ACMI agreement with DHL may limit our ability to provide services to third parties. The ACMI agreement limits our ability to use the aircraft designated for use under the ACMI agreement to perform services for parties other than DHL by permitting such use only if (1) it does not interfere in any material respect with ABX’s performance of ACMI services for DHL, (2) ABX does not solicit DHL’s customers in competition with DHL, (3) it does not involve ABX providing air cargo transportation services to major integrated international air express delivery companies with annual revenues in excess of $5 billion (other than the USPS or any affiliate of DHL) and (4) an ABX event of default shall not have occurred and be continuing. ABX is dependent upon the economic conditions in the U.S. An economic downturn in the U.S. is likely to adversely affect demand for delivery services offered by DHL, in particular expedited services shipped via aircraft. During an economic slowdown, customers generally use ground-based delivery services instead of more expensive air delivery services. A prolonged economic slowdown may increase the likelihood that DHL would reduce the scope of services we provide under the ACMI 10 Table of Contents agreement. Although the cost of jet fuel does not directly affect our net earnings, increased prices of jet fuel could also reduce the demand for air delivery services from DHL or our other ACMI customers. ABX has made a significant investment in Boeing 767 aircraft. We are adding eight Boeing 767 aircraft to the ABX in-service fleet through 2008. This is in addition to four Boeing 767 aircraft that we added to our non-DHL ACMI operations in 2006. Our future operating results and financial condition will depend on our ability to successfully deploy these aircraft in operations that provide a positive return on our investment. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain and operate additional cargo volumes with customers other than DHL. To deploy our growing non-DHL fleet, we are pursuing international opportunities, including flights in Asia. Deploying aircraft in new international markets may pose additional risk, regulatory requirements and costs. These eight aircraft will be converted from passenger configurations to standard freight configuration. We plan to finance the purchase price and the cost of modifying the aircraft with existing cash and contractor-provided financing during the modification period. Upon completion of the modification, we anticipate financing some aircraft through a syndication process being arranged by our lead bank. Currently, only the financing for one aircraft is committed, but we expect to finalize borrowing arrangements in 2007 and 2008 as needed. Our future operating results will be affected by the interest rates, limits and other terms and conditions of the new borrowings or leases. See page 30 for further discussion of these aircraft. We may need to reduce the carrying value of our assets. We own a significant amount of aircraft, aircraft parts and related equipment. Additionally, our balance sheet reflects assets for income tax carryforwards and other deferred tax assets. The removal of aircraft from service could require the Company to evaluate the recoverability of the carrying value of those aircraft in accordance with Statements of Financial Accounting Standard (“SFAS”) No. 144 and result in an impairment charge. At the Company’s current level of stockholders’ equity, the removal of additional aircraft from the DHL ACMI agreement could result in impairment charges for aircraft if their fair market values are less than their carrying values. If we incur operating losses or our estimates of expected future earnings indicate a decline, it may be necessary to reassess the need for a valuation allowance for some or all of the Company’s net deferred tax assets. If insurance coverage becomes unavailable, it would adversely affect our ability to operate. The U.S. government has been offering war risk insurance to U.S. airlines at rates below the commercial insurance market. The U.S. government has committed to offer war risk insurance to airlines through August 31, 2007, after which it may be necessary to procure war risk insurance in the commercial market. The war risk insurance available to airlines in the commercial market may be more limited in coverage and/or may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. Although we believe that our insurance coverage is adequate, there can be no assurance that the amount of such coverage will not be changed upon renewal or that we will not be forced to bear substantial losses from accidents. Substantial claims resulting from an accident could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and could affect our ability to obtain insurance in the future. Penalties, fines, and sanctions levied by governmental agencies or the costs of complying with government regulations could negatively affect our results of operations. Our operations are subject to complex aviation, transportation, environmental, labor, employment and other laws and regulations. These laws and regulations generally require us to maintain and comply with a wide variety 11 Table of Contents of certificates, permits, licenses and other approvals. Our inability to maintain required certificates, permits or licenses, or to comply with applicable laws, ordinances or regulations could result in substantial fines or, in the case of DOT and FAA requirements, possible suspension or revocation of our authority to conduct our operations. All aircraft in our in-service fleet of 99 aircraft were manufactured prior to 1990. The average ages of our Boeing 767, DC-8 and DC-9 aircraft are approximately 23, 38 and 36 years, respectively. Manufacturer Service Bulletins and the FAA Airworthiness Directives issued under its “Aging Aircraft” program cause aircraft operators of such aged aircraft to be subject to extensive aircraft examinations and require such aircraft to undergo structural inspections and modifications to address problems of corrosion and structural fatigue at specified times. Airworthiness Directives have been issued that require inspections and both major and minor modifications to such aircraft. It is possible that additional Service Bulletins or Airworthiness Directives applicable to the types of aircraft or engines included in our fleet could be issued in the future. The cost of compliance with Airworthiness Directives and of following Service Bulletins cannot currently be reasonably estimated but could be substantial. ABX and a few employees in our Human Resources Department are the targets of a criminal investigation by the U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”) regarding whether we violated U.S. immigration laws in respect of our use of contract employees being supplied to us by Garcia Labor Co., Inc., a temporary employment agency. While ABX believes that it has not engaged in any wrongdoing, the investigation could result in proceedings being initiated against the Company. In the event proceedings were initiated against ABX that resulted in an adverse finding, ABX could be subjected to a financial penalty that is materially greater than the amount we have accrued and restrictions on our ability to engage in business with agencies of the U.S. Government. Our operations are geographically concentrated. Our aircraft repair station, headquarters, and principal site of hub services are located in Wilmington, Ohio. If these facilities were damaged or our access to these facilities was limited, for example, due to security concerns, severe weather or natural disaster, our operations and financial conditions could be adversely affected. Failure to maintain ABX’s operating certificates and authorities would adversely affect our business. We have the necessary authority to conduct flight operations within the U.S. and maintain a Domestic All-Cargo Air Service Certificate for our domestic services, a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity for Route 377 for our Canada service, and an Air Carrier Operating Certificate issued to ABX by the FAA. The continued effectiveness of such authority is subject to our compliance with applicable statutes and DOT, FAA and TSA rules and regulations, including any new rules and regulations that may be adopted in the future. Under U.S. laws and DOT precedents, non-U.S. citizens may not own more than 25% of, or have actual control of, a U.S. certificated air carrier. The separation of ABX from Airborne required us to file a notice of a substantial change with the DOT. In connection with the filing, the DOT will determine whether ABX continues to be fit, willing and able to engage in air transportation of cargo and a U.S. citizen. The DOT may determine that DHL actually controls ABX as a result of the commercial arrangements (in particular, the ACMI agreement and the Hub Services agreement) between ABX and DHL. If the DOT determined that ABX was controlled by DHL, the DOT could bring an enforcement action against ABX to revoke its certificates. The DOT could take action requiring ABX to show cause that it is a U.S. citizen and that it is fit, willing and able to engage in air transportation of cargo, or requiring amendments or modifications of the ACMI agreement, the Hub Services agreement or the other transaction documents. If we were unable to modify such agreements to the satisfaction of the DOT, the DOT may seek to suspend, modify or revoke our air carrier certificates and/or authorities. The loss of our authorities, including in the situation described above, would materially and adversely affect our operations and would effectively eliminate our ability to operate the air services. 12 Table of Contents Employees may decide to institute labor agreements. We rely on a diverse group of employees, including sorters, mechanics and pilots. Today, only the pilots are organized under a labor agreement, which became amendable July 31, 2006 and is currently under negotiation. Operations could be interrupted and business could be adversely affected if no agreement is reached with the pilots or if other employee groups choose to organize with a union. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 