Risk Factors. The factors discussed below are cautionary statements that identify important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. For more information regarding the forward-looking statements contained in this report, see the introductory paragraph to Part I of this report. You 12 should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included in this report, in considering our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing SpectraLink. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us also may impair our business operations. The occurrence of any of the following risks could affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. · We are subject to numerous risks associated with our planned acquisition by Polycom, Inc. On February 7, 2007, SpectraLink Corporation entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement) with Polycom, Inc. (Polycom) and Spyglass Acquisition Corp., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Polycom (the Polycom acquisition). Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, and upon the terms and subject to the conditions thereof, Polycom commenced a cash tender offer for all outstanding shares of SpectraLink common stock at a purchase price of $11.75 per share on February 20, 2007. The obligation of Polycom to consummate the merger is subject to customary closing conditions as described in the Merger Agreement, including among other things, the absence of any material adverse effects on SpectraLink’s business. If the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement are not met or waived, the Polycom acquisition may not occur. The details of these conditions are set forth in the Merger Agreement which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 8, 2007. We cannot assure you that each of the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement will be satisfied. Mergers and acquisitions of telecommunications companies are inherently risky, and no assurance can be given that our acquisition by Polycom, Inc. or any other future acquisitions will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. To the extent that our announcement of the acquisition creates uncertainty among customers such that one of our largest customers or a significant number of smaller customers delay or cancel their orders for our products or services pending consummation of the Polycom acquisition, our results of operations could be negatively affected. Decreased revenue could have a variety of adverse effects, including negative consequences to our relationships with customers, suppliers, resellers and others. In addition, our earnings could be below the expectations of market analysts which could cause a decline in our stock price. If the acquisition is unsuccessful, it may cause a material disruption to our business and require payment to Polycom of a termination fee of $7,600,000. If the Polycom acquisition is not consummated, we could suffer a number of consequences that may adversely affect our business, results of operations and stock price, including, but not limited to, the following: · we would not realize any anticipated benefits from being a part of a combined company; · the price of our common stock will decline to the extent that its current market price reflects a market assumption that the merger will be completed; · we may experience difficulties in attracting strategic customers and partners who were expecting to acquire the products and related services proposed to be offered by the combined company; · we may not be able to find another buyer willing to pay an equivalent or higher price per share in an alternative transaction than the price that Polycom has offered; · we would remain liable for significant costs related to the acquisition, such as legal, accounting and investment banking fees; · activities relating to the acquisition and related uncertainties may lead to a loss of revenue and market position that we may not be able to regain if the acquisition does not occur; · we may not be able to retain key employees; · we may not be able to take advantage of alternative business opportunities or effectively respond to competitive pressures due to loss of our sales personnel; and · we may not be able to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting due to employee departures. 13 In addition to the above risks, the announcement of the tender offer may intensify the other risks that SpectraLink is exposed to as described herein: · We are exposed to goodwill impairment risk associated with our investment in KIRK. Our allocation of the KIRK acquisition price resulted in the recognition of $26.5 million of goodwill that is recoverable through future operating results of KIRK telecom and KIRK scantel. If forecasted future operating results for the two operations do not materialize to the extent necessary to support the value of the acquisition goodwill, we may have to record an impairment charge in our statements of operations to reflect a lower value. An impairment could have a significant impact on our future operating results and earnings per share. · Our foreign operations are subject to economic, political and other risks that could adversely affect our revenue or financial position. Our business operations in Denmark, the United Kingdom, Australia and any other possible foreign operations in the future could result in adverse financial consequences and operational problems not experienced in the United States. We anticipate that our revenue from our international operations may grow in the future. Accordingly, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including: · Changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions; · laws and regulations that restrict repatriation of earnings or other funds; and · difficulty in recruiting trained personnel; and · language and cultural differences. In addition, we face risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Due to the acquisition of KIRK, we will increase our exposure to foreign currency exchange rates and the risks associated therein. We have limited forward currency contracts but we have not historically engaged in any hedging activities relating to our non-U.S. Dollar operations, and we may suffer future losses as a result of changes in currency exchange rates. · Leverage and debt service obligations may adversely affect us. In anticipation of the KIRK acquisition, we took on a substantial amount of indebtedness. In August 2006 we renegotiated our Credit Facility. As of December 31, 2006, we had $13.6 million of debt outstanding under our Credit Facility. Our indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on, or other amounts due with respect to our indebtedness. All of our outstanding indebtedness bears interest at floating rates. As a result, our interest payment obligations on such indebtedness will increase if interest rates increase. Subject to certain restrictions under our existing indebtedness, we may also obtain additional long-term debt and working capital lines of credit to meet future financing needs. This would have the effect of increasing our total leverage. Our leverage could have significant negative consequences on our financial condition and results of operations, including: · impairing our ability to meet one or more of the financial ratios contained in our credit facility agreement or to generate cash sufficient to pay interest or principal, which events could result in an acceleration of all or some of our outstanding debt as a result of cross-default provisions; · increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · requiring us to sell debt or equity securities or to sell some of our core assets, possibly on unfavorable terms, to meet payment obligations; · limiting our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing; · requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, thereby reducing the amount of our cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures; · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we compete; · placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage with less leveraged competitors and competitors that may have better access to capital resources; and · causing our Danish holding company, SpectraLink Denmark ApS, to trigger thin capitalization tax consequences in Denmark due to the substantial intercompany debt held on its books, as compared to its equity at the end of our fiscal year. This would cause us to use cash to increase capitalization in Denmark. · Restrictive covenants in the Credit Facility could adversely affect our business by limiting flexibility. The Credit Facility contains restrictive covenants and requirements that we comply with certain leverage and other financial tests. These limit our ability to take various actions, including incurring additional debt, guaranteeing indebtedness, issuing preferred stock, engaging in various types of transactions, including mergers and sales of assets, and paying dividends, repurchasing our stock, and making distributions or other restricted payments, including investments. These covenants could have an adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing third-party product development, merger and acquisition or other opportunities. 14 · Our ability to generate continued market growth rates may require us to participate in industry consolidation. As part of our business strategy and the business environment in the telecommunications equipment industry in general, we may engage in further acquisitions or mergers with other companies, or individual product lines, technologies and/or personnel or become the target for a merger or acquisition. Our ability to take such actions may be constrained by the covenants in our Credit Facility. Further, to remain competitive, we may need to partner with a larger telecommunications company to obtain access to dual-mode markets. · If we are unable to fulfill quarter end customer orders, we could lose revenue and customers. The volume of customer orders for our products typically increases significantly at the end of each quarter. We face significant challenges in meeting this demand. It is difficult to ensure that we have the resources available to meet any such increase in order volume since it is very difficult to predict what the level of demand will be. We may not have the personnel and/or systems necessary to fulfill the large order volume or the ability to upgrade and develop our systems and infrastructure to meet an increased order volume. If we are unable to meet demand from our customers for our products in a cost effective manner, then we might lose revenue and customers, or incur increased operating costs, either of which would harm our business. · Many of the orders for our products are realized at the end of the quarter, which makes it difficult to forecast or adjust our operating activities quickly in response to an unexpected increase or decrease in customer demand. Due to the timing of orders from customers, we have often recognized a substantial portion of our revenue in the last month of a quarter. As a result, minor fluctuations in the timing of orders and the shipment of products may, in the future, cause operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. The demand for our products depends upon many factors and is difficult to forecast. Significant unanticipated fluctuations in demand could cause problems in our operations. The lead-time required to assemble our systems is often longer than the lead-time our customers provide to us for delivery of their product requirements. Therefore, we often must place orders in advance of expected purchase orders from our customers. As a result, we have only a limited ability to react to fluctuations in demand for our products, which could cause us to have either too much or too little inventory of a particular product. Further, the business relationship which we have with Offshore Group to use a Mexico facility to assemble our products may not be able to provide product in a timely manner. The majority of the KIRK products are manufactured in Horsens, Denmark, and the manufacturing lines for SpectraLink product are located in Boulder, Colorado. Additionally, once we receive an order, it requires sufficient time to complete the configuration of our product to our customer’s individual phone systems. Our inability to satisfy customer demand in a timely manner would lead to lost sales and impede our ability to increase our revenue. Conversely, a large portion of our expenses, including rent and salaries, is fixed and difficult to reduce. Our expenses are based in part on expectations for our revenue. If our revenue does not meet our expectations, the adverse effect of the revenue shortfall upon our operating results may be acute in light of the fixed nature of our expenses. · Our revenue and earnings are seasonal. Seasonality and other factors may cause significant quarterly fluctuations in our revenue and net income. Our business is seasonal based on budget cycles in various vertical markets such as healthcare and retail. This causes significant quarterly fluctuations in our financial results. Generally, revenue and operating results are sequentially down in the first quarter from the fourth quarter, sequentially higher in the second quarter, sequentially flat or slightly higher or lower in the third quarter, and strongest in the fourth quarter. Actual results from operations may or may not follow these normal seasonal patterns in a given year leading to performance that is not in alignment with expectations. · Our reliance on sole or limited sources of supply for many components and equipment used in our manufacturing process. We rely on sole or limited sources of supply for many components and equipment used in our manufacturing process. The delay, inability, or refusal of any of these suppliers to ship these components or equipment could interrupt our manufacturing process and ability to manufacture products in a timely manner to meet customer demand. The limited number of sources for many of these components may also prevent us from decreasing our reliance on certain suppliers and finding other sources at competitive prices. Unforeseen price increases by any of the sole or limited source suppliers could negatively impact product margins and our financial performance · Because many of our current and planned products are or will be highly complex, they may contain defects or errors that are detectable only after deployment in complex networks and which, if detected, could have a negative effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Many of our complex products can only be fully tested when deployed in “live” existing wireless networks. As a result, end-users may only discover defects or errors or experience breakdowns in their networks after the products have been deployed. If any of these products contain defects, or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation might be damaged significantly and customers might be reluctant to buy our products. These defects could interrupt or delay sales. We may have to invest significant capital and other resources to correct these problems. If we fail to provide solutions to the problems, we will also incur product recall, repair, warranty or replacement costs. These problems might also result in claims against us by our customer or others. In addition, the occurrence of any defects or errors in these products could result in: failure to achieve market acceptance and loss of market share; cancellation of orders; difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; increased service and warranty costs in excess of our estimates; diversion of resources, and; increased insurance costs and other losses to our business or to end-users. · If we experience product failure that indicates either manufacturing or design deficiencies, we may be required to recall units in the field and/or stop producing and shipping such products until the deficiency is identified and corrected. In the event of such product failures, our business could be adversely affected resulting in reduced revenue, increased costs and decreased customer satisfaction. End-users have discovered errors in our products in the past and may discover errors in our products in the future. In addition, if our costs of remediating problems experienced by our customers exceed the expectations used in developing our warranty reserves, these costs may adversely affect our operating results. Consequently, our product failure could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial results. 15 · Our ability to attract and retain personnel, including key technical and management personnel. Much of the future success of our company depends on the continued service and availability of skilled personnel, including technical, marketing and staff positions. Experienced personnel in the wireless communications industry are in high demand and competition for their talents is intense. For example, we have appointed two chief financial officers within two years and we have not replaced our executive vice president of Americas sales and marketing since her resignation, effective August 31, 2006. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully retain and attract the key personnel we need. Many of our key personnel receive a total compensation package that includes stock options. In order to comply with changes to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States enacted by the Financial Accounting Standards Board and other agencies starting in the first quarter of 2006, we recorded a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants, employee stock purchase plans and other equity incentives. In addition, applicable stock exchange listing standards relating to obtaining stockholder approval of equity compensation plans could make it more difficult or expensive to grant options to employees in the future. To the extent that new regulations make it more difficult or expensive to grant options to employees, we may incur higher compensation costs, change our equity compensation strategy or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, any of which could have a material and adverse impact on our business. · The risk of business interruption arising from our dependence on our manufacturing facilities located in Boulder, Colorado, and Horsens, Denmark, and the business relationship we have with Offshore Group to use a facility in Empalme, Sonora, Mexico which provides assembly services. We are highly dependent on our Boulder, Colorado, and Horsens, Denmark, manufacturing facilities, which is where the majority of our manufacturing and repair operations occur. We are also highly dependent upon our business relationship with Offshore Group to provide management services and an assembly facility located in Empalme, Sonora, Mexico. Any event that may disrupt or indefinitely discontinue any of the facilities’ capacity to manufacture, assemble and repair our products could greatly impair our ability to generate revenue, fulfill orders and attain financial goals. For instance, we may experience delays in the receipt of assembled product from the facility in Mexico should the border between the U.S. and Mexico close. · Our ability to respond to rapid technological changes within the on-premises wireless telephone industry. The wireless communications industry is characterized by rapid technological change, short product life cycles, and evolving industry standards. To remain competitive, we must: · develop or gain access to new technologies in order to increase product performance and function, reduce product size, and maintain cost effectiveness; · develop new products for existing and emerging wireless communications markets, and introduce such products in a timely manner; · implement emerging wireless standards or multiple emerging wireless standards quickly enough to satisfy market demands and without significant product redesign or the need to allocate additional resources to comply with multiple standards; · develop or obtain access to advanced wireless capabilities as they become available; and · design, develop and introduce competitive new products on a timely basis. We may not successfully execute on our vision of product requirements because of errors in defining product marketing requirements, planning or timing, technical hurdles that we fail to overcome in a timely fashion, or a lack of appropriate resources. Due to the competitive nature of our business, any failure by us to meet any of these challenges could render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive and thereby materially and adversely affect our business, reputation, and operating results. · Potential fluctuations in our future revenue, gross margins and operating results. We have experienced, and may in the future continue to experience, significant quarterly fluctuations in revenue, gross margins and operating results due to numerous factors, some of which are outside our control. Among other things, these factors include: · changes in customer, geographic or product mix, including mix of configurations within each product group; · fluctuating market demand for, and declines in the average selling prices of, our products; · the timing of, and/or delay of, significant orders from customers; · seasonality in demand within our various sectors; · increases in material or labor costs; · excess inventory; · obsolescence charges; · changes in shipment volume; · foreign currency fluctuations; · loss of cost savings due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred due to inventory holding periods if parts ordering does not correctly anticipate product demand; · increases in price competition; 16 · changes in the mix of our distribution channels including our OEM partners; · government regulation of frequency spectrum; · increases in warranty costs; · introduction of new products and costs of entering new markets; and · impairment to our ability to ship orders due to lack of available parts. For example, historically we have not operated with a significant order backlog, and a substantial portion of our revenue in any quarter has been derived from orders booked and shipped in that quarter. Accordingly, our revenue expectations are based almost entirely on our internal estimates of future demand and not on firm customer orders. Further, our acquisition of KIRK may make it more difficult for us to predict demand for our products. Planned expense levels are relatively fixed in the short-term and are based in large part on these estimates, and if orders and revenue do not meet expectations, our revenue, gross margins and operating results could be materially adversely affected. · The uncertainty about economic prospects in some sectors of our target customer market adversely impacts their information technology spending and our business. Our business has from time to time been adversely impacted by the uncertainty about general economic prospects in some sectors of our target customer market within the United States and worldwide, because this uncertainty has resulted in a decline in, or a failure to increase, their information technology spending. Consumers of information technology in some of these sectors may defer, and in some cases cancel, their purchase decisions. Our operating results may be adversely affected as a result. The adverse impacts from economic uncertainty include longer sales cycles, lower average selling prices, fewer large orders from a single customer and reduced revenue. · Changes in rules and regulations of the FCC and other regulatory agencies. The wireless communications industry, regulated by the FCC in the United States and similar government agencies in other countries, is subject to changing political, economic, and regulatory influences. Regulatory changes, including changes in the allocation of available frequency spectrum, or changing free un-licensed to free based spectrum licensing could significantly impact our operations in the United States and internationally. · We are dependent on indirect sales channels for most of our revenue. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from a variety of third-party business partners, including OEMs, distributors and resellers. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, sales of our products through our indirect distributors accounted for 49% of our product revenue and 34% of product revenue was contributed by our OEM partners. Our contracts with third party business partners do not require those partners to purchase minimum quantities of our products or services. In fact, some of our third party business partners also offer the products of some of our competitors. In addition, our OEM agreements do not restrict an OEM from acquiring products from a third party or independently developing products and services that would directly compete with us. We cannot guarantee that any of our third party business partners will continue to market our products or devote significant resources to doing so. Furthermore, we will, from time to time, terminate or adjust some of our relationships with third party business partners in order to address changing market conditions, adapt such relationships to our business strategy, resolve disputes, or for other reasons. Any such termination or adjustment could have a negative impact on our relationships with third party business partners and our business, and result in decreased sales through third party business partners or threatened or actual litigation. If our third party business partners do not successfully market and sell our products or services for these or any other reasons, our sales could be adversely affected and our revenue could decline. In addition, our third-party business partners have confidential information concerning our products and services, product release schedules and sales, marketing and third-party reseller operations. Although we have nondisclosure agreements with our third-party business partners, we cannot guarantee that any third-party business partner would not use our confidential information to compete with us. Furthermore, since we have experienced lower gross margins related to sales to our OEM partners, we may experience lower gross margins in the future if sales to our OEM partners become a larger percentage of product sales. Our success depends in part upon our ability to maintain and expand these relationships. The loss of any major partner, the failure to attract new partners or inability to maintain the current level of revenue from our existing partners could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. · A lower than anticipated rate of acceptance of domestic and international markets using the 802.11 standard may impede our growth. Our NetLink wireless telephones are compatible with the IEEE 802.11 standard for use on 802.11 compliant wireless LAN networks. Consequently, demand for NetLink wireless telephones depends upon the acceptance of markets utilizing 802.11-compliant networks. This depends in part upon the initial adoption of the 802.11 standard in international markets, as well as enhancements to that standard in the U.S. and foreign markets where the standard has already been adopted. Additionally, the acceptance of 802.11 compliant networks may move more slowly, if at all, if competing wireless networks are established and utilized. Additionally, the deployment of 17 wireless voice and data systems has been inhibited by security concerns including the potential of unauthorized access to data and communications transmitted over or accessible through a wireless system. Potential customers may choose not to purchase our products until wireless systems are developed which provide for greater security. Further, our products may not be compatible with secure wireless systems that may be developed in the future. If markets utilizing 802.11 compliant networks do not grow as we anticipate, our growth would be impeded and we would not be able to factor the related revenue into our growth in the future. If the 802.11 standard does not emerge as the dominant wireless standard in our markets, or multiple standards are adopted that require different technologies we may need to spend time and resources to add functionality to meet the additional standards and many of our strategic initiatives and investments may be of no or limited value. Further, to the extent that additional standards are adopted, our product differentiation could be minimized and our implementation may not be interoperable with the standard, necessitating additional product development to meet the standard which may cause product delays. · The market for KIRK DECT or SpectraLink proprietary technology may decline. If the market adoption of 802.11 standards are faster than anticipated, it may affect sales of DECT technology and Link WTS. Sales of our Link product have generally been flat in recent years. DECT solutions could face the same competition and cause a downward trend in our sales growth and our overall gross margin. · The market for on-premises wireless telephone systems may fail to grow or to grow as quickly as we anticipate. We derive our revenue principally from the sale of wireless, on-premises telephone systems and related installation and other services relating to those systems. Therefore, our future operating results depend on the demand for those types of services. If this market does not grow or grow quickly, our future results of operations would be significantly harmed. In particular, increased demand for our NetLink product depends on the growth of the voice over Wi-Fi-related market. Although NetLink handset sales have grown significantly in recent periods, the market for deployment of converged voice and data wireless networks in the general enterprise continues to be immature. We expect that this will remain the case unless that market moves through its acceptance of IP wireless applications, standards adoption increases to reduce complexity, and customers deploy wireless IP access points more fully throughout their enterprise networks in densities required to support wireless voice traffic. · Our revenue may fluctuate because we rely on a limited number of significant customers. A portion of our revenue in the past has been derived from a limited number of customers. We also have experienced quarter-to-quarter variability in sales to each of our major customers and expect this pattern to continue in the future. · We might not be able to execute on our business plan if we lose key sales or technical personnel, on whose knowledge, leadership and technical expertise we rely, or if new members of our management team fail to work effectively together. Our success depends heavily upon the contributions of our key management and technical personnel, whose knowledge, leadership and technical expertise would be difficult to replace. Many of these individuals have been with us for several years and have developed specialized knowledge and skills relating to our technology and business. On August 31, 2006, Jill Kenney, executive vice president of Americas sales and marketing, resigned her position as an executive officer of the Company. A permanent replacement has not been hired. In addition, during the last two years, four of the six executive officers were either new to the Company or were promoted. Our success depends in part upon the ability of new executives to work effectively together and with the rest of our employees to continue to develop our technology and manage the operation and growth of our business. Excepting Ole Lysgaard Madsen, president and managing director of KIRK in Denmark, we have no employment contracts for our executive officers, and do not maintain key person insurance on any of our executive officers. We might not be able to execute on our business plan if we were to lose the services of any of our key personnel. If any of these individuals were to leave us unexpectedly, we could face substantial difficulty in hiring qualified successors, and could experience a loss in productivity while any such successor develops the necessary training and experience. · We rely on our 802.11 technology partners to continue to provide the wireless local area network for our NetLink product, and to provide access points which support SpectraLink’s Voice Priority (SVP) technology. In the absence of a wireless voice prioritization standard to ensure quality of service, we rely on 802.11 technology partners, such as Alcatel-Lucent, Aruba Wireless Networks, Cisco Systems, Nortel, Symbol Technologies, 3 Com, and Trapeze Networks Inc. to continue to provide wireless local area network support for our NetLink product, and to provide access points that support SVP capability. If any of our technology partners fail to provide voice prioritization support for our products, the market opportunity for NetLink products would be reduced and our future results of operations would be materially harmed until we find new 802.11 technology partners or voice prioritization standards are adopted. 18 · If we are unable to develop and introduce new products and transition existing products and respond to emerging technological trends and customers’ changing needs, our operating results and market share may suffer. The process of developing new technology is complex and uncertain, and if we fail to accurately predict customers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends, our business could be harmed. We must commit significant resources to developing new products before knowing whether our investments will result in products the market will accept. We may encounter delays in deploying new or improved products. For instance, our new products may not properly function with our customers’ existing telephone systems, or our new products may contain defects or bugs. These incompatibilities, defects or bugs may not be detected until our customers begin to install the products or thereafter. We may need to modify the design of our new or improved products if they have incompatibilities, defects or bugs, which could result in significant expenditures as we seek to remedy the problems, delays in the purchase of the products or cancelled orders. We may also encounter delays in the manufacturing and production of the new products. Additionally, the new products may not be commercially successful. Demand for existing products may decrease upon the announcement of new or improved products. Further, since products under development are often announced before introduction, these announcements may cause customers to delay purchases of any products, even if newly introduced, until the new or improved versions of those products are available. If customer orders decrease or are delayed during the product transition, we may experience a decline in revenue and have excess inventory on hand which could decrease gross profit margins. Our gross margins might decrease if customers, who may otherwise choose to purchase existing products, instead choose to purchase lower priced models of new products. Delays or deficiencies in the development, manufacturing, and delivery of, or demand for, new or improved products could have a negative effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. · If we are unable to cross-sell the SpectraLink and KIRK products to each other’s channels, we may not realize the value expected from the acquisition. We acquired KIRK to extend market presence in workplace wireless telephony by adding another technology standard offering and provide a platform for international growth. If we do not successfully add each other’s products to our product offerings, we will not add incremental growth nor realize the effects of leveraging KIRK’s distribution channels, causing less than expected revenue growths and potentially lowering future cash flow forecasts such that our acquisition goodwill may be impaired. · Our ability to manage potential expansion of operations outside of North America, Australia and Europe. We intend to expand our existing domestic and international operations, and to enter new markets. This expansion will require significant management attention and financial resources. We currently have limited experience in marketing and distributing our products outside of North America, Australia and Europe and in developing versions of products that comply with local standards. We may also not be able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products. International operations are subject to other inherent risks, including foreign government regulation of technology or unexpected changes in regulatory and customs requirements, difficulty and delays in accounts receivable collection, difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations, reduced protection for intellectual property rights, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, and taxation consequences. · We face increasing competition in the on-premises wireless telephone system market. The on-premises wireless telephone system industry is competitive and influenced by the introduction of new products and new entrants into the industry. The competitive factors affecting the market for our systems include product functions and features, frequency band of operation, ease-of-use, quality of support, product quality and performance, price, network and application integration capabilities, distribution channels, and the effectiveness of marketing and sales efforts. Most of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, research and development, and marketing resources than us. As a result, our competitors may respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or may devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products than us. In addition, mature DECT standard-based products previously marketed by large telecom companies in markets outside the U.S. are being introduced in the U.S. which is our largest market and may be lower-priced than the Link and NetLink offerings. Enterprise adoption of standards for wireless LAN and VoIP may lead to the commoditization of wireless telephone technology and the availability of low-cost alternative products. Other purchasers may prefer to buy their 802.11 wireless telephone systems from a single source provider of wireless local area networks, or LANs, such as Cisco Systems, who provides 802.11 wireless infrastructure and wireless telephones. Because we focus on wireless on-premises telephone communications, we cannot serve as the sole source for a complete telephone or data communications system. There is no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future. Further, if a potential customer is already using a competing product or system, that potential customer may not be willing or able to make the investment necessary to replace such a system with our wireless telephone system. In addition, there may be potential customers who choose another technology because of cost or their belief that their needs do not require the full function provided by our wireless telephone systems. 19 · The certification and approval process for our NetLink product for use in countries that support the 802.11 standard. Foreign countries, which support the 802.11 standard, could provide future markets for our NetLink products. However, countries’ certification and approval processes for 802.11 compatible products, such as ours, are typically time consuming and costly. If we have difficulty obtaining certification and approval by foreign countries for our NetLink wireless telephone product, then we and/or our distributor channels may not be able to gain access to the markets in these countries in a timely fashion, if at all, which would limit international growth of our business. · Our ability to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights. Our future success depends, in part, upon our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, confidentiality procedures, and nondisclosure and other contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. These legal protections provide only limited protection and may be time consuming and expensive to obtain and enforce. There can be no assurance that our issued patents will not be challenged or circumvented by competitors or provide meaningful protection against competition. If challenged, our patents might not be upheld or their claims could be narrowed. If we fail to protect our proprietary rights adequately, our competitors might gain access to our technology. As a result, our competitors might offer similar products and we might not be able to compete successfully in our market. Moreover, despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may copy aspects of our products and obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Also, our competitors may independently develop similar, but not infringing, technology, duplicate our products, or design around our patents or our other intellectual property. In addition, other parties may breach confidentiality agreements or other protective contracts with us, and we may not be able to enforce our rights in the event of these breaches. Furthermore, we expect that we will increase our international operations in the future, and the laws of many foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights. Any litigation surrounding our rights could force us to divert important financial and other resources from our business operations. · The assertion of intellectual property infringement claims against us. Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe upon issued patents, patents to be issued in the future, or other intellectual property rights of others. We may in the future be notified that we are infringing upon certain patent and/or other intellectual property rights of others. Although there are no such pending lawsuits against us that we are infringing upon intellectual property rights of others, there can be no assurance that infringement claims will not occur in the future. From time to time, third parties may assert exclusive patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related methods that are important to us. Litigation may be necessary in the future to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, to enforce our intellectual property rights, or to protect our trade secrets. We may also be subject to claims from customers for indemnification. Any resulting litigation, regardless of our resolution, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. If it were determined that our products infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others, we would need to obtain licenses from these parties or reengineer our products in order to avoid infringement. We might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms or at all, or to reengineer our products successfully. Moreover, if we are sued for infringement and lose the suit, we could be required to pay substantial damages or be enjoined from licensing or using the infringing products or technology. Any of the foregoing could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from selling our products. · We rely on the availability of third-party licenses. Many of our products are designed to include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties, especially through our OEM agreements. If we terminate OEM or technology partner relationships, it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of these products. There can be no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. The inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights or to obtain such licenses or rights on favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation regarding these matters, could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. · Changes in securities laws and regulations have increased our costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 that became law in July 2002, as well as new rules related to executive compensation, has required changes in some of our corporate governance, public disclosure and compliance practices. The Act also required the SEC to implement additional new rules on a variety of subjects. In addition to rules made by the SEC, the Nasdaq Stock Market has adopted revisions to its requirements for companies, such as us, that are Nasdaq-listed. These developments have increased our legal and financial compliance costs, and made some activities, like SEC reporting obligations, more expensive and difficult. In addition, these developments may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur 20 substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These developments could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and qualified executive officers. · The historic volatility of our stock price, which may make it more difficult to resell shares at prices attractive to sellers. The market price of our common stock has been volatile and is likely to remain subject to wide fluctuations in the future. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2006, the closing price of our common stock has ranged from a high of $13.83 per share to a low of $7.43 per share. Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, including: · variations in our actual or anticipated quarterly or annual results; · market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers and the economy as a whole; · announcements of technological innovations by us or by our competitors; · introduction of new products or product enhancements or new pricing policies by us or by our competitors; · government regulation; · acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or by our competitors; · recruitment or departure of key personnel; · the gain or loss of significant orders; · changes in the market valuations of other telecommunications companies; · the amount of liquid financial resources available to us; · the gain or loss of significant customers including OEMs; and · changes in the estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations by securities analysts. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology-related stocks in particular could decline, which could cause the market price of our common stock to fall for reasons not necessarily related to our business, results of operations or financial condition. The market price of our stock also might decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry even if these events do not directly affect us. Accordingly, you may not be able to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid. Securities class action litigation is often brought against a company following a period of volatility in the market price of its securities, and we have previously been sued in several purported securities class action lawsuits. Further, certain of our management and directors were also sued in purported stockholder derivative actions. The consolidated class action suit and derivative actions have all been settled. 