Item 1A Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties we describe below and the other information in this Annual Report or incorporated by reference before deciding to invest in, or retain, shares of our common stock. These are not the only risks and uncertainties that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not currently know about or that we currently believe are immaterial, or that we have not predicted, may also harm our business operations or adversely affect us. If any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition, operating results or liquidity could be materially harmed. We have a history of operating losses and we may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. We have incurred substantial losses since our inception, and there can be no assurance that we will achieve a profitable level of operations in the future. We anticipate a negative cash flow during FY 07, due primarily to spending for research and development, operations and capital expenditures. We had cash and marketable securities totaling $6.1 million as of March 31, 2006. Although we do not anticipate the need for additional financing in FY 07, management may seek new financing, if terms are favorable. However, there can be no assurance that such financing will be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Reimbursements from third-party health care payers is uncertain due to factors beyond our control and changes in third-party health care payers’ policies could adversely affect our sales growth. There can be no assurance that third-party reimbursement will continue to be available for procedures performed with our products. In addition, reimbursement standards and rates may change. We believe that the failure of users of our GI and pulmonary products to obtain adequate reimbursement from third-party payers has had a materially adverse effect on our sales. Our products and manufacturing practices are subject to regulation by the FDA and by other state and foreign regulatory agencies. Our products are medical devices and therefore subject to extensive regulation in the United States and in the foreign countries where we do business. The process of obtaining required regulatory clearances can be lengthy and expensive, and compliance with the FDA’s Quality Systems Regulation can be burdensome. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the required regulatory clearances will be obtained, and those obtained may include significant limitations on the uses of the product in question. In addition, changes in existing regulations or the adoption of new regulations could make regulatory compliance by us more difficult in the future. The failure to obtain the required regulatory clearances or to comply with applicable regulations may result in fines, delays, suspensions of clearances, seizures, recalls of products, operating restrictions or criminal prosecutions, and could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We currently purchase certain critical components from a manufacturer under a supply agreement, and if that manufacturer is unable or unwilling to produce our product requirements in quality and quantity to our satisfaction, our business will be harmed. Certain critical components of our products, such as image bundles, are currently being purchased solely from Pentax, a competitor of ours. These components are being purchased pursuant to a supply agreement that expires in March 2007, and is renewable automatically for two years. It is subject to termination by mutual consent or upon breach or bankruptcy. We believe that while substitute components, which are currently produced by sources other than Pentax, would be available, such substitute components may be more expensive and of a lower quality and may require a redesign of our endoscope and additional regulatory clearances. Moreover, such substitute components may not be 17 immediately available in quantities needed by us. Our inability to obtain a sufficient quantity of such critical components on favorable terms could materially adversely affect our business. In addition, our industrial borescopes are assembled using components and subassemblies purchased from independent vendors. While most components and subassemblies are currently available from more than one supplier, certain critical components are currently purchased only from Pentax and Machida Endoscope Company, Ltd. The failure of us to obtain a sufficient quantity of such components on favorable terms could materially adversely affect our business. If we do not continue to develop and commercialize new products and identify new markets for our products and technology, we may not remain competitive, and our revenues and operating results could suffer. The endoscopy industry is subject to continuous technological development and product innovation. If we do not continue to be innovative in the development of new products and applications, our competitive position will likely deteriorate as other companies successfully design and commercialize new products and applications. Accordingly, our success depends in part on developing new and innovative applications of our endoscopy technology and identifying new markets for and applications of existing products and technology. If we are unable to develop and commercialize new products and identify new markets for our products and technology, our products and technology could become obsolete and our revenues and operating results could be adversely affected. Competition in the medical device industry is intense and many of our competitors have greater resources than we do. The flexible endoscopes and related products currently sold and under development by us face competition primarily from medical products companies such as Olympus and Pentax. In addition, any company that is able to significantly redesign conventional flexible endoscopes to simplify the cleaning process, or significantly improve the current methods of cleaning flexible endoscopes, would provide competition for our products. The principal competitors for our industrial products are Olympus and Welch Allyn. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have greater financial resources, research and development personnel, and manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we have. Our competitors could utilize their greater financial resources to acquire other companies to gain enhanced name recognition and market share, as well as to acquire new technologies or products that could effectively compete with our product lines. In addition, it is possible that other large health care companies may enter the flexible endoscope market in the future. Our ability to compete effectively depends upon our ability to distinguish our company and our products from our competitors and their products. Factors affecting our competitive position include: · product performance and design; · ability to sell products tailored to meet the applications needs of clients and patients; · quality of customer support; · product pricing; · product safety; · sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; · success and timing of new product development and introductions; and · intellectual property protection. 18 We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights or technology effectively. Our success depends in part on our ability to maintain patent protection for our products, to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. There can be no assurance that our pending patent applications will result in patents being issued or that our competitors will not circumvent, or challenge the validity of, any patents issued to us. There can be no assurance that measures taken by us to protect our proprietary information will prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of this information, or that others will not be able to independently develop such information. In addition, in the event that another party infringes our patent rights or other proprietary rights, the enforcement of such rights is at our option and can be a lengthy and costly process, with no guarantee of success. Moreover, there can be no assurance that claims alleging infringement by us of other’s proprietary rights will not be brought against us in the future or that any such claims will not be successful. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, our ability to market or be competitive with respect to some or all of our products may be affected, which could reduce our sales and affect our ability to become profitable. Product liability suits against us may result in expensive and time consuming litigation, payment of substantial damages and an increase in our insurance rates. The development, manufacture and sale of medical products involves a significant risk of product liability claims. We maintain product liability insurance with coverage limits of $2,000,000 per year. We believe that this level of coverage is adequate, given our past sales levels, our anticipated sales levels for FY 07 and our claims experience. We will reevaluate the adequacy of this coverage when and if our sales substantially increase, or another need arises. No product liability claims have been brought against us to date. However, there can be no assurance that product liability insurance will continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or that product liability claims in excess of our insurance coverage, if any, will not be successfully asserted against us in the future. We sell our products in numerous international markets. Our operating results may suffer if we are unable to manage our international operations effectively. We sell our products in foreign countries, and we therefore are subject to risks associated with having international operations. Sales to unaffiliated customers outside of the United States were approximately $2,981,000, $3,370,000 and $4,122,000 for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. Our international sales are subject to a number of risks, including: · foreign certification and regulatory requirements; · maintenance of agreements with competent distributors; · import and export controls; · currency exchange fluctuation; and · political and economic instability. We may be unable to attract and retain management and other personnel we need to succeed. Our success depends on the services of our senior management and other key research and development, manufacturing, sales and marketing employees. The loss of the services of one or more of these officers and/or employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 19 