Item 1A. Risk Factors As a financial services company, our business and earnings are significantly affected by general business and economic conditions, particularly in the real estate industry, and accordingly, our business and earnings could be further harmed in the event of a continuation or deepening of the current U.S. recession or further market deterioration or disruption. Our business and earnings are sensitive to general business, economic and market conditions in the United States. These conditions include changes in short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, deflation, fluctuation in the real estate and debt capital markets, developments in national and regional economies and changes in government policies and regulations. 10 Table of Contents Our business and earnings are particularly sensitive to economic and market conditions affecting the real estate industry because much of our loan portfolio consists of commercial real estate, construction and residential loans. While generally containing lower risk than unsecured loans, commercial real estate and construction loans generally involve higher credit risk than conventional single-family residential loans. Such loans also generally involve larger individual loan balances. In addition, real estate construction loans may be affected to a greater extent than residential loans by adverse conditions in real estate markets or the economy because many real estate construction borrowers’ ability to repay their loans is dependent on successful development of their properties, as well as the factors affecting residential real estate borrowers. Risk of loss on a construction loan depends largely upon whether the initial estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction equals or exceeds the cost of property construction (including interest) and the availability of permanent take-out financing. During the construction phase, a number of factors can result in delays and cost overruns. Construction and commercial real estate loans also involve greater risk because they may not be fully amortizing over the loan period, but have a balloon payment due at maturity. A borrower’s ability to make a balloon payment may depend on the borrower being able to refinance the loan, timely sell the underlying property or liquidate other assets. The current U.S. recession has resulted in a reduction in the value of the real estate assets securing a large portion of the loans that we hold. An increasing number of borrowers have become delinquent or defaulted on their loans, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations and financial condition. A further increase in the number of delinquencies or defaults would result in higher levels of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs and provision for loan losses, adversely affecting our results of operations and financial condition. Recent legislation in response to market and economic conditions may not stabilize the financial services industry or the U.S. economy. Disruptions in the financial system during 2008 have resulted in significantly reduced business activity throughout the global and U.S. economies, which have the potential to significantly affect financial institutions. In response to this financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”) was signed into law on October 3, 2008. A number of programs have been and are being developed and implemented under EESA. The EESA may not have the intended effect and therefore the condition of the financial services industry may worsen instead of improve. The failure of the EESA to improve the condition of the U.S. banking system could significantly adversely impact our business, our financial condition, our financial results, our access to funding or capital as well as the trading price of our common stock or other instruments. The administration of President Barack Obama recently announced a comprehensive mortgage-relief plan. The effects of this plan and any other similar programs or initiatives that may be implemented are difficult to predict, but they could result in increased losses to the Bank, either directly or indirectly through the Bank’s ownership of investment securities, including mortgage-backed securities. The impact on us of recently enacted legislation, in particular the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA), the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA), and their implementing regulations, and actions by the FDIC, cannot be predicted at this time. The programs established or to be established under the EESA, ARRA and Troubled Asset Relief Program are evolving and may have adverse effects on us. We may face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Also, participation in specific programs may subject us to additional restrictions. For example, participation in the Troubled Asset Relief Program will limit (without the consent of the U.S. Treasury Department) a participating company’s ability to pay a dividend on common stock or to repurchase its common stock for so long as any securities issued under such program remain outstanding. It will also subject a participating company to additional executive compensation restrictions. Similarly, programs established by the FDIC under the systemic risk exception of the Federal Deposit Act, may have an adverse effect on us, whether or not we participate in the 11 Table of Contents programs. Participation in the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program requires the payment of additional insurance premiums to the FDIC based upon the increased deposit coverage afforded there under. Further, we will be required to pay significantly higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation premiums because market developments have decreased the insurance fund at the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The full effects of these various programs cannot reliably be determined at this time. Conditions in the financial markets may limit our access to additional funding to meet our liquidity needs. Liquidity is crucial to the operation of the Company and the Bank. Liquidity risk is the potential that we will be unable to fund increases in assets or meet payment obligations, including obligations to depositors, as they become due because of an inability to obtain adequate funding or liquidate assets. For example, funding illiquidity may arise if we are unable to attract core deposits or are unable to renew at acceptable pricing long-term borrowings or short-term borrowings from the overnight inter-bank market, the Federal Home Loan Bank System, brokered deposits, or the Federal Reserve discount window. Illiquidity may also arise if our regulatory capital levels decrease, our lenders require additional collateral to secure our repayment obligations, or a large amount of our deposits are withdrawn. We may also experience illiquidity due to unexpected cash outflows on committed lines of credit or financial guarantees or due to unexpected events. The increasingly competitive retail deposit environment increases liquidity risk (and increases our cost of funds) as increasingly sophisticated depositors move funds more frequently in search of higher rates or better opportunities. The Company’s liquidity may be negatively impacted by regulatory or statutory restrictions on payment of cash dividends by the Bank. We monitor our liquidity risk and seek to avoid over concentration of funding sources and to establish and maintain back-up funding facilities that we can draw down if normal funding sources become unavailable. If we fail to control our liquidity risks, there may be materially adverse effects on our results of operations and financial condition. We may need to raise additional capital which may not be available or may adversely affect existing shareholders. The Company may need to raise additional capital in the future through debt or equity financings to maintain desired levels of capital ratios, to improve its financial condition, or to increase liquidity available for operations. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may not be available on terms that are favorable to the Company. In the case of equity financings, significant dilution to the Company’s shareholders could result and, in any case, securities may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of the Company’s current shareholders. Under the Company’s articles of incorporation, it may issue preferred equity without first obtaining shareholders’ approval. Debt financing could also negatively affect future earnings due to interest charges. In the event additional capital is unavailable on acceptable terms through available financing sources, we may take steps to preserve capital, including possibly slowing our lending activities and new loan commitments, selling certain assets or increasing loan participations. If the Bank is unable to pay cash dividends to the holding company to meet its cash obligations, the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects will be adversely affected. Dividends paid by the Bank to the Company provide cash flow used to service interest payments on trust preferred securities. Various statutory provisions restrict the amount of dividends the Bank can pay to the Company without regulatory approval. It is possible that depending upon the financial condition of the Bank and other factors, the applicable regulatory authorities could assert that payment of dividends or other payments, including payments to the Company, is an unsafe or unsound practice. If the Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Company, the Company may not be able to service its debt or pay its obligations. The inability to receive dividends from the Bank would adversely affect the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 12 Table of Contents A significant decline in the Company’s market value could result in an impairment of goodwill. Goodwill is evaluated for impairment on an annual basis or when circumstances indicate an impairment may exist. Recently, the Company’s common stock has been trading at a price significantly below its book value. The Company evaluated its goodwill totaling $1.8 million as of December 31, 2008, due to a decrease in the Company’s market capitalization, and concluded that there was no impairment. The valuation of goodwill is determined using discounted cash flows of forecasted earnings, estimated sales price based on recent observable market transactions and market capitalization based on current stock price. If impairment of goodwill was deemed to exist, we would be required to write down our assets resulting in a charge to earnings. A write-down of goodwill due to impairment would adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition; however, it would have no impact on our regulatory capital. The value of certain securities in our investment securities portfolio may be negatively affected by disruptions in the market for these securities. The market for certain investment securities held within our investment portfolio has over the past year become more volatile. The volatile market may detrimentally affect the value of these securities, such as through reduced valuations due to the perception of heightened credit and liquidity risks, in addition to interest rate risk typically associated with these securities. There can be no assurance that the declines in market value associated with these disruptions will not result in other-than-temporary or permanent impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s net income and capital levels. Market and other constraints on our construction loan origination volumes are expected to lead to decreases in the Company’s interest and fee income that are not expected to be offset by reductions in our non-interest expenses. Due to existing conditions in housing markets in the areas where we operate and other factors, management projects our construction loan originations to be materially constrained throughout 2009. This will lower interest income and fees generated from this part of our business. Unless this revenue decline is offset by other areas of our operations, our total revenues may decline relative to our total non-interest expenses. Management expects that it will be difficult to find new revenue sources in the near term to completely offset expected declines in our interest income. The Company is extremely sensitive to the economy of the Pacific Northwest. We operate primarily in Cowlitz County, Washington, the Seattle/Bellevue metropolitan area, and the Vancouver, Washington and Portland, Oregon metropolitan area. Local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on: • the ability of our customers to repay loans; • the value of collateral securing loans; • the demand for our products and services; and • the stability of deposits that create liquidity to support lending activities. Deteriorating real estate market conditions and an economic downturn in the Pacific Northwest have negatively affected our business. Worsening conditions in the Pacific Northwest real estate markets could continue to adversely affect our borrowers’ ability to repay as well as affect the value of the collateral underlying our loans, resulting in an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The Company has a concentration of real estate collateral securing loans. Many of our loans are secured by real estate located in Washington and Oregon. A decline in the real estate market could lead to a decrease in the value of collateral securing loans to our customers. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral would be diminished, and we would be more likely to incur losses on defaulted loans. 13 Table of Contents We foreclose on and take title to the real estate serving as collateral for many of our loans as part of our business. Increased other real estate owned (OREO) balances lead to greater expenses as we incur costs to manage and dispose of the properties. We expect that our earnings in 2009 will be negatively affected by various expenses associated with OREO, including personnel costs, insurance and taxes, completion and repair costs, and other costs associated with property ownership, as well as by the funding costs associated with assets that are tied up in OREO. Any decrease in market prices may lead to OREO write downs, with a corresponding expense in our income statement. Interest rates are subject to constant, often unpredictable changes and could have an adverse effect on our earnings. Interest and fees on loans and securities, net of interest paid on deposits and borrowings, are a large part of the Company’s net income. Interest rates are key drivers of net interest margin and are subject to many factors beyond the control of management. As interest rates change, net interest income is affected. Rapid increases in interest rates in the future could result in interest expense increasing faster than interest income because of mismatches in financial instrument maturities. Rapid decreases in interest rates could result in interest income decreasing faster than interest expense, for example, if management is unable to match decreases in earning assets yields, with reduced rates paid on deposits or borrowings. Periods of low market interest rates, such as exist today, has adversely affected our net interest spread and net interest income because our earning assets yield decreases during a time that our cost of interest-bearing liabilities is already low and cannot be reduced further. Further, substantially higher interest rates generally reduce loan demand and may result in slower loan growth, particularly in construction lending. A rapid rise in interest rates could also reduce debt service coverage ratios of borrowers. Decreases or increases in interest rates could have a negative effect on the spreads between the interest rates earned on assets and the rates of interest paid on liabilities, and therefore decrease net interest income. For more information on this topic see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate. We maintain an allowance for estimated loan losses that we believe is adequate for absorbing the inherent losses in our loan portfolio. Management determines the provision for loan losses based on a continual evaluation of lending concentrations, specific credit risks, past loan loss experience, loan portfolio and collateral quality, and relevant economic, political and regulatory conditions. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating, and other conditions, including changes in interest rates and deteriorating values in underlying collateral (much of which consists of real estate) that may be beyond our control, and such losses may exceed the allowance for estimated loan losses. Although management believes that the allowance for estimated loan losses is adequate to absorb any inherent losses on existing loans that may become uncollectible, there can be no assurance that the allowance will prove sufficient to cover actual loan losses in the future. Significant increases to the provision for loan losses may be necessary if our assumptions are incorrect or material adverse changes in general economic conditions occur or the performance of our loan portfolio deteriorates. An extended recession or further weakening of the economy or a specific industry sector or a rapid change in market rates could adversely affect our borrowers’ ability to repay loans. Additionally, banking regulators, as an integral part of their supervisory function, periodically review the allowance for estimated loan losses. If these regulatory agencies require us to increase the allowance for estimated loan losses, it could have a negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may be subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. In the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing loans. There is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances will be found on these properties, in which case we may be liable for remediation costs and related personal injury and property damage. Compliance with environmental laws may require the Bank to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. 14 Table of Contents Environmental indemnifications obtained from borrowers and their principals or affiliates may not adequately compensate the Bank for losses related to environmental conditions. The remediation costs and financial liabilities associated with environmental conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on our information technology and communications systems to conduct our business. We rely heavily on communications, electricity, and information systems to conduct our business. In addition, we rely on third parties to provide key components of our infrastructure, including loan, deposit and general ledger processing, internet connections, and network access. Any disruption in service of these key components could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise to conduct our operations. Furthermore, security breaches of our information systems or data, whether managed by us or by third parties, could harm our reputation or cause a decrease in the number of customers that choose to do business with us. Security breaches could also subject the Bank to additional regulatory scrutiny and expose the Bank to civil litigation and possible financial liability. The financial services industry is extremely competitive. The Company competes with well-established, large banks based outside of the region, community banks, credit unions, thrift institutions, investment banking firms, insurance companies, payday loan offices and mortgage lenders for depositors and borrowers. Management believes the most significant competitive factor is customer service, in addition to competitively priced loans and deposits, for structure, branch locations and the range of banking products and services offered. Offices of the major financial institutions have competitive advantages over the Company in that they have high public visibility, may offer a wider variety of products and are able to maintain advertising and marketing activities on a much larger scale than the Company can economically maintain. Since single borrower lending limits imposed by law are dependent on the capital of the institution, the branches of larger institutions with substantial capital bases also have an advantage with respect to loan applications that are in excess of the Company’s legal lending limits. We are currently in a particularly competitive market for low cost deposits, which has led to increase pressure on our deposit balances and net interest margin. In competing for deposits, the Company is subject to certain limitations not applicable to non-bank financial institution competitors. In Cowlitz County, the main source of competition for deposits is the relatively large number of credit unions. Large new entrants into the deposit market, such as GMAC, American Express and Morgan Stanley, have much greater resources than we do and a history of competing aggressively in consumer and business markets. Federal and State regulations applicable only to banks and bank holding companies also place banks at a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors such as finance companies, credit unions, mortgage banking companies and leasing companies. Although the Company has been able to compete effectively in its market area in the past, there can be no assurance that it will be able to continue to do so. With significant competition in the Company’s market areas, there can be no assurance that the Company can continue to attract significant loan and deposit customers. The inability to attract these customers could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and results of operations. The financial services industry is heavily regulated and additional laws and regulations are often considered at the state and federal level. The Company and the Bank are subject to extensive regulation under federal and state laws. These laws and regulations are primarily intended to protect customers, depositors and the deposit insurance fund, rather than shareholders. The Bank is a Washington state-chartered commercial bank whose primary regulator is the 15 Table of Contents Washington Department of Financial Institutions. The Bank is also subject to the supervision by and the regulations of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”), which insures bank deposits. The Company is subject to regulation and supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the SEC and NASDAQ. Federal and state regulations may place banks at a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors such as finance companies, credit unions, mortgage banking companies and leasing companies. If we receive less than satisfactory results on regulatory examinations, we could be restricted from making acquisitions, adding new branches, developing new lines of business or otherwise continuing our growth strategy for a period of time. Future changes in federal and state banking regulations could adversely affect our operating results and ability to continue to compete effectively. If we acquire companies in the future, our earnings could be reduced if we are unable to successfully integrate operations. We explore opportunities to acquire other banks. If we are able to find a suitable acquisition opportunity and negotiate and close a transaction, but we experience difficulty in integrating an acquired company, consequently, we may not realize expected revenue enhancements, cost savings, increases in geographic presence or other projected benefits. Integration could also disturb customer and employee relationships at the acquired company, causing deposit run-off and loss of key employees. Resources spent on integration may also detract from our ability to grow existing business. We may not be able to attract or retain key banking employees. We strive to attract and retain key banking professionals, management and staff. Competition to attract the best professionals in the industry can be intense which will limit our ability to hire new professionals. Banking related revenues and net income could be adversely affected in the event of the unexpected loss of key personnel. Our business may be harmed by adverse events at other financial institutions. Financial institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, correspondent banking, counterparty, and other relationships and because of regulatory factors. We enter into transactions with financial services companies, including commercial banks and correspondent banks. Many of these transactions expose the Company and the Bank to credit and bankruptcy risk in the event of a default or bankruptcy by a counterparty. The Bank may also be negatively impacted by the failure of other banks. For example, as a depository of public funds, the Bank will be assessed, and the Bank is statutorily obligated to pay, a pro rata share of the losses of public funds held at a failed public depository in Oregon and Washington. In addition, assessments the Bank pays to the FDIC and others, including deposit insurance premiums, will increase even further in the event of bank failures or other adverse events affecting the banking system generally or the Bank in particular. Recently, the FHLB of Seattle announced that it did not meet minimum regulatory capital requirements, due to the deterioration in the market value of their mortgage-backed securities portfolio. As a result, the FHLB of Seattle cannot pay a dividend on their common stock and it cannot repurchase or redeem common stock. While the FHLB of Seattle has announced it does not anticipate that additional capital is immediately necessary, nor does it believe that its capital level is inadequate to support realized losses in the future, the FHLB of Seattle could require its members, including Cowlitz Bank, to contribute additional capital in order to return the FHLB of Seattle to compliance with capital guidelines. We are highly dependent on the FHLB of Seattle to provide the primary source of wholesale funding for immediate liquidity and borrowing needs. The failure of the FHLB of Seattle or the FHLB system in general, may materially impair our ability to meet our growth plans or to meet short and long term liquidity needs. Should the FHLB of Seattle fail, we anticipate that our investment in the FHLB’s common stock would be “other-than-temporarily” impaired and may have no value. 16 Table of Contents Negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact our earnings and liquidity. Reputational risk, or the risk to our business, earnings, liquidity, and capital from negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in a variety of areas, including legal and regulatory compliance, lending practices, corporate governance, litigation, ethical issues, or inadequate protection of customer information. We expend significant resources to comply with regulatory requirements. Failure to comply could result in reputational harm or significant legal or remedial costs. Damage to our reputation could adversely affect our ability to retain and attract new customers, and adversely impact our earnings, liquidity and stock price. Changes in accounting standards may impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. Some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets, liabilities and financial results. Periodically, new accounting standards are imposed or existing standards are revised. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 