Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties we describe below and the other information in this Annual Report or incorporated by reference before deciding to invest in, or retain, shares of our common stock. These are not the only risks and uncertainties that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not currently know about or that we currently believe are immaterial, or that we have not predicted, may also harm our business operations or adversely affect us. If any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition, operating results or liquidity could be materially harmed. We have a history of operating losses and we may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future We have incurred substantial operating losses since our inception (our net income in FY 07 resulted from the sale of a product line) and there can be no assurance that we will achieve a profitable level of operations in the future. We anticipate a negative cash flow during FY 09, because of additional spending for research and development, increasing our global network of independent sales representatives for the urology market, general business operations and capital expenditures. As of March 31, 2008, we had cash and cash equivalents totaling $18.7 million. Although we do not anticipate the need for additional financing in FY 09, management may seek new financing, if terms are favorable. However, there can be no assurance that such financing will be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our stock price is volatile, and you may not be able to sell your shares for a profit The trading price of our common stock is volatile. Our common stock price could be subject to fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including: •Actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; •Conditions or trends in the medical device market; •Announcements by us or our competitors of significant customer wins or loses, gains or losses of distributors, technological innovations, new products or services; •Addition or departures of key personnel; •Sales of a large number of shares of our common stock; •Adverse litigation; •Unfavorable legislative or regulatory decisions; •Variations in interest rates; and •General market conditions. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the target of securities class action litigation. We may become the target of this type of litigation in the 27 future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert management attention, which could seriously harm our business. Rapid growth and a rapidly changing operating environment may strain our limited resources Our growth strategy includes our efforts to build our brand, develop new products, increase market penetration of our new videoscopes and develop a new line of fiber-based scopes to replace those manufactured with components supplied by Pentax. This growth strategy requires significant capital resources, and we may not generate an adequate return on our investment. Our growth may involve the acquisition of new technologies, businesses, products or services or the creation of strategic alliances in areas in which we do not currently operate. This could require our management to develop expertise in new areas, manage new business relationships and attract new types of customers. We may also experience difficulties integrating these acquired businesses, products or services into our existing business and operations. The success of our growth strategy also depends in part on our ability to utilize our financial, operational and management resources and to attract, train, motivate and manage an increasing number of employees. The success of our growth strategy depends on a number of internal and external factors, such as: •the growth of the market for medical devices and supplies; •our ability to simultaneously develop a new line of fiber-based scopes and expand our videoscope family; •increase customer awareness and acceptance of our products; •continued enhancement of our research and development capabilities; •competition from other manufacturers of these devices; and •competition from other companies that offer these products, many of which are beyond our control. We may not be able to implement our growth strategy successfully or manage our expansion effectively. Further, as we ramp up our manufacturing operations to accommodate our planned growth, we may encounter difficulties associated with increasing production scale, including shortages of qualified personnel to operate our equipment, assemble our products or manage manufacturing operations, as well as shortages of key raw materials or components for our products. In addition, we may also experience difficulties in producing sufficient quantities of products or in achieving desired product quality. If we are unable to successfully operate and manage our manufacturing operations to meet our needs, we may not be able to provide our customers with the quantity or quality of products they require in a timely manner. This could cause us to lose customers and result in reduced product-sale revenues. Our inability to continue to hire and retain key employees could have a negative impact on our future operating results Our success depends on the services of our senior management team and other key employees in our research and development, manufacturing, operations, accounting, and sales and marketing departments. If we are unable to recruit, hire, develop and retain a talented, competitive work force, we may not be able to meet our strategic business objectives. 28 Our products and manufacturing practices are subject to regulation by the FDA and by other state and foreign regulatory agencies Our products are medical devices and therefore subject to extensive regulation in the United States and in the foreign countries where we do business. In the U.S., we are subject to regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies. The process of obtaining required regulatory clearances can be lengthy and expensive, and compliance with the FDA's Quality Systems Regulation can be burdensome. FDA regulations govern, among other things, the following activities that we perform, and will continue to perform, in connection with our products: design and development; product testing; manufacturing; labeling and packaging; storage; shipping and receiving; pre-market clearance or approval; advertising and promotion; and sales, distribution, and servicing. There can be no assurance that the required regulatory clearances will be obtained, and those obtained may include significant limitations on the uses of the product in question. In addition, changes in existing regulations or the adoption of new regulations could make regulatory compliance by us more difficult in the future. The failure to obtain the required regulatory clearances or to comply with applicable regulations may result in fines, delays, suspensions of clearances, seizures, recalls of products, operating restrictions or criminal prosecutions, and could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Foreign government regulations vary substantially from country to country. The time required to obtain approval by a foreign country may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval, and the requirements may differ significantly. The European Union has adopted legislation, in the form of directives to be implemented in each member state, concerning the regulation of medical devices within the European Union. The directives include, among others, the Medical Devices Directive that establishes standards for regulating the design, manufacture, clinical trials, labeling, and vigilance reporting for medical devices. We have received CE (Conformité Européne) certification from Underwriters Laboratories UK for conformity with the European Union Medical Devices Directive allowing us to use the CE mark on our product lines. This quality system has been developed by the International Organization for Standardization to ensure that companies are aware of the standards of quality to which their products will be held worldwide. While no additional pre-market approvals in individual European Union countries are required prior to marketing of a device bearing the CE mark, practical complications with respect to marketing introduction may occur. For example, differences among countries have arisen with regard to labeling requirements. Failure to maintain the CE mark will preclude us from selling our products in the European Union. We may not be successful in maintaining certification requirements necessary for distribution of our products in the European Union. Under the Canadian Medical Devices Regulations, all medical devices are classified into four classes, Class I being the lowest risk class and Class IV being the highest risk. Class I devices include among others, devices that make only non-invasive contact with the patient. Classes II, III and IV include devices of increasingly higher risk as determined by such factors as degree of invasiveness and the potential consequences to the patient if the device fails or malfunctions. Our current products sold in Canada generally fall into Classes II and III. All Class II, III and IV medical devices must have a valid Medical Device License issued by the Therapeutic Products Directorate of Health Canada before they may be sold in Canada (Class I devices do not require such a license). We have obtained applicable Medical Device Licenses for many of our products. Failure to maintain required Medical Device Licenses in Canada or to meet other requirements of the Canadian Medical Devices Regulations (such as quality system standards and labeling requirements) for our products will preclude us from selling our products in Canada. We may not be successful in continuing to meet the medical device licensing requirements necessary for distribution of our products in Canada. 29 The process of obtaining required regulatory clearances can be lengthy and expensive, and compliance with ISO 13485, CMDR, MDD and the FDA's QSR and regulatory requirements can be burdensome. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the required regulatory clearances will be obtained, and those obtained may include significant limitations on the uses of the product in question. In addition, changes in existing regulations or the adoption of new regulations could make regulatory compliance by us more difficult in the future. The failure to obtain the required regulatory clearances or to comply with applicable regulations may result in fines, delays or suspensions of clearances, seizures, recalls of products, operating restrictions or criminal prosecutions, and could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Reimbursements from third-party healthcare payers is uncertain because of factors beyond our control, and changes in third-party healthcare payers' policies could adversely affect our sales growth In the U.S. and other foreign countries, government-funded or private insurance programs, or third-party payers, pay a significant portion of the cost of a patient's medical expenses. There is no uniform policy of reimbursement among all these payers. We believe that reimbursement is an important factor to the success of our product sales. All U.S. and foreign third-party reimbursement programs, whether government funded or commercially insured, are developing increasingly sophisticated methods of controlling healthcare costs through prospective reimbursement and capitation programs, group purchasing, redesign of benefits, careful review of bills, and exploring more cost-effective methods of delivering healthcare. These types of programs can potentially limit the amount which healthcare providers may be willing to pay for our products. There can be no assurance that third-party reimbursement will continue to be available for procedures performed with our products. In addition, reimbursement standards and rates may change. We believe that the failure of users of our products to obtain adequate reimbursement from third-party payers has had a materially adverse effect on our sales. We currently purchase certain critical components from several single source manufacturers under various supply agreements, and if these manufacturers are unable or unwilling to produce components, meeting our specifications in quantities that meet our production needs, our business will be harmed In our medical and industrial segments, we purchase certain critical components for the majority of our fiberscopes, and our newly developed videoscopes, from several single source manufacturers. For example, some critical parts for our existing line of fiberscopes are purchased solely from a key supplier, Pentax, which is a competitor of ours. These components are being purchased pursuant to a supply agreement now due to expire in February 2009. Although we recently settled our dispute with Pentax, our agreement with them ends in one year and will not be renewed. As a result of the expiration of our supply agreement with Pentax, we are designing a new line of fiberscopes that do not use any parts manufactured by Pentax. We anticipate that we will be able to have completed the redesign and FDA approval process for our new line of fiberscopes by February '09. However, there are no assurances that we will be able to complete this process within such timeframe. Furthermore, as with the fiberscopes produced with Pentax parts, certain critical components of our redesigned fiberscopes and our newly designed videoscopes are available only from one or two suppliers. An interruption of supply from one of these suppliers or our inability to obtain a sufficient quantity of such critical components on favorable terms could materially adversely affect our business. In addition, the success of our new videoscopes will depend in part on our ability to manufacture these videoscopes in sufficient quantities to meet customer demand. The failure or inability of one of these key suppliers to meet our production and quality needs could have a material adverse effect on the sales of our new videoscopes, their acceptance into the marketplace and our long term prospects. 30 In the industrial segment, borescopes are assembled using components and subassemblies purchased from independent vendors. While most components and subassemblies are currently available from more than one supplier, certain critical components are currently purchased only from two key suppliers. Our failure to obtain a sufficient quantity of such components on favorable terms could materially adversely affect our business. We depend on a small group of independent distributors for all of our revenues, and this dependence is likely to continue in the future. Although we intend to expand this group, there is no assurance that we will be able to manage them In our medical and industrial segments, we depend on distributors of medical devices and supplies and industrial equipment, respectively, for all of our product sales. Other than our ENT distributor, Medtronic, we do not have long-term contracts with our distributors, but rather typically sell to them on a unit-by-unit basis. We expect this relatively small group of distributors, which may change from year to year, to generate all of our product-sales revenue. We cannot assure you that any distributor will continue to purchase our products at the same levels as in prior years or that such relationship will continue. We expect that in any given period a relatively small, and changing, number of distributors will continue to account for all of our product-sales revenues. Further, although we intend to expand our current network of distributors, there is no assurance that we will succeed in doing so in the short term. As we expand our distribution network, our inability to effectively manage this larger group may adversely impact our reputation among end users of our products, interfere with our ability to service existing customers and reduce our revenues from product sales, as further described below. If we fail to effectively manage our distribution network, our business, prospects and brand may be materially and adversely affected by actions taken by our distributors We have a limited ability to manage the activities of our third-party, outside distributors, who are independent from us. Our distributors could take one or more of the following actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and brand: •sell products that compete with our products in breach of their non-competition agreements with us; •fail to adequately promote our products; or •fail to provide proper service to our end-users. Failure to adequately manage our distribution network, or the non-compliance of our distributors with their obligations under distribution agreements with us could harm our corporate image among end users of our products and disrupt our sales, resulting in a failure to meet our sales goals. Although we do not have significantly large overseas sales, foreign governments have increased their anti-bribery efforts in the healthcare sector to reduce improper payments received by hospital administrators and doctors in connection with the purchase of pharmaceutical products and medical devices. To our knowledge, none of our distributors engages in corrupt practices. However, our distributors may violate these laws or otherwise engage in illegal practices with respect to their sales or marketing of our products which would adversely affect our corporate image and business. Competition in the medical device industry is intense, and many of our competitors have greater resources than we do The flexible endoscopes and related products currently sold and under development by us face competition primarily from medical products companies such as Olympus Group, Pentax Imaging Company, Karl Storz GmbH & Co., Stryker Corp, and Gyrus Group PLC. In addition, any company 31 that is able to significantly redesign conventional flexible endoscopes to simplify the cleaning process, or significantly improve the current methods of cleaning flexible endoscopes, would provide competition for our products. The principal competitors for our industrial products are Olympus, General Electric—Inspection Technology and Karl Storz GmbH & Co. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have far greater financial resources, research and development personnel, and manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we have. Our competitors could utilize their greater financial resources to acquire other companies to gain enhanced name recognition and market share, as well as to acquire new technologies or products that could effectively compete with our product lines. In addition, it is possible that other large health care companies may enter the flexible endoscope market in the future. Our ability to compete effectively depends upon our ability to distinguish our company and our products from our competitors and their products. Factors affecting our competitive position include: •product performance design; •ability to sell products tailored to meet the applications needs of clients and patients; •quality of customer support; •product pricing; •product safety; •sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities •success and timing of new product development and introductions; and •intellectual property protection. If we fail to increase awareness and acceptance of our new videoscope system in the medical community, we will not be able to grow or even sustain our business Our new, digital, video-based flexible scopes, which comes with an integrated "built-in light" source, eliminating the need for a separate camera head, light cable and optical coupler, use new CCD technology, as opposed to older fiber-optic technology. To penetrate the potential market for this family of videoscopes, we must increase market awareness and use of our new technology, which depends on, among other things, the following: •the general levels of awareness and acceptance in the medical community of our family of videoscopes; •the effectiveness of our videoscope system, which we intend to further refine through research and development activities; •the relative costs and benefits of treatment using our videoscope system as compared to other treatments; •the financial or other benefits gained by doctors that use our videoscopes with our EndoSheath system; •the amount of resources we have available to increase product awareness and to educate potential purchasers and users of our videoscope system; •our ability to continue to develop and enhance our family of videoscopes; •our ability to provide good technical support and customer service; and •our ability to keep up with technological changes and remain competitive. 32 We may not have the financial and operational resources required to promote awareness and acceptance of our new videoscope systems as widely or rapidly as is necessary to grow or sustain our business. Even if we were to devote a substantial portion of our resources to promoting our product, we may not succeed in raising the levels of awareness and acceptance of our videoscopes as quickly as is necessary to grow or sustain our business, if at all. If we fail to increase awareness and acceptance of our videoscopes in the medical community, we will not be able to grow, or even sustain, our business as planned, harming our financial condition and results of operations. We may not succeed in sustaining a market for our new videoscopes Certain of our new line of videoscopes only recently received 510k clearance from the FDA. Going forward, the long-term success of our videoscope system depends on several factors, including our ability to: •Successfully promote product awareness of our videoscopes; •competitively price our videoscopes and add-on components; •develop new applications to expand our family of videoscopes; •select effective distributors; and •obtain additional regulatory approvals or clearances for new components or systems in a timely manner. Existing videoscope technology is a well-established method for obtaining clinical diagnoses. As a result, our videoscopes are competing in a market in which there are already several established industry players. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully market or sell our videoscopes in the future. We also cannot assure you that our videoscopes, or any future enhancements to our videoscopes, will generate adequate revenue to offset our investments and costs in acquiring, developing or marketing our videoscopes. If there is insufficient demand for our videoscopes, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. In addition, any announcement of new products, services or enhancements by us or our competitors may cause our customers to cancel or postpone purchasing decisions for our existing products in anticipation of these new products, services or enhancements. We need to expand our outside sales force to maintain and grow our business and product-sale revenues. Our failure to expand and maintain an effective sales force or successfully develop our relationship with other distributors, may materially and adversely affect our business, prospects and brand We currently market and sell our existing fiberscopes for our ENT business through a single distributor, Medtronic, and our other scopes through other outside distributors and sales representatives. As part of our growth plan, we intend to increase the number of distributors we utilize to distribute our fiberscopes and videoscopes. We have limited experience in managing a large sales force and distributor network. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain an effective sales force or successfully develop our relationships with third-party, outside distributors. If we fail to do any one of those, our sales could fail to grow or could even decline, and our ability to grow our business could be adversely affected. The expansion of our sales force and distribution network is also likely to require a significant investment of financial resources and management efforts, and the benefits, if any, which we gain from such expansion, may not be sufficient to generate an adequate return on our investment. 33 New product development in the medical device and supply industry is both costly and labor-intensive and has a very low rate of successful commercialization Our success will depend in part on our ability to enhance our existing products and technologies, through the development of alternate manufacturing lines for our fiberscopes, and to develop and acquire new products, such our videoscopes. The development process for medical technology is complex and uncertain, as well as time-consuming and costly. Product development requires the accurate assessment of technological and market trends as well as precise technological execution. We cannot assure you that: •our product or technology development will be successfully completed; •necessary regulatory clearances or approvals will be granted by the FDA or other regulatory bodies as required on a timely basis, or at all; or •any product or technology we develop can be commercialized or will achieve market acceptance. We may also be unable to locate suitable products or technologies to acquire or acquire such products or technologies on commercially reasonable terms. Failure to develop or acquire, obtain necessary regulatory clearances or approvals for, or successfully commercialize or market potential new products or technologies could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we do not continue to develop and commercialize new products and identify new markets for our products and technology, we may not remain competitive, and our revenues and operating results could suffer The endoscopy industry is subject to continuous technological development and product innovation. If we do not continue to innovate in developing new products and applications, our competitive position will likely deteriorate as other companies successfully design and commercialize new products and applications. Accordingly, our success depends in part on developing new and innovative applications of our endoscopy technology and identifying new markets for and applications of existing products and technology. If we are unable to develop and commercialize new products and identify new markets for our products and technology, our products and technology could become obsolete and our revenues and operating results could be adversely affected. Our operating results could be negatively impacted if we are unable to capitalize on research and development spending We have spent, and continue to spend, a significant amount of time and resources on research and development projects, in order to develop and validate new and innovative products. We believe that these projects will result in the manufacturing of new products and will create additional future sales. However, factors including regulatory delays, safety concerns, or patent disputes could slow down the introduction or marketing of new products. Additionally, unanticipated issues may arise in connection with current and future clinical studies, which could delay or terminate a product's development prior to regulatory approval. We may also experience an unfavorable impact on our operating results if we are unable to capitalize on those efforts by attaining the proper FDA approval, or other foreign regulatory approvals, or to successfully market new products, including the new family of videoscope products, or other flexible endoscope products. 34 We expect gross margins to vary over time, and our level of product gross margins may not be sustainable Our level of product gross margins may not be sustainable and may continue to be adversely affected by numerous factors, including: •Changes in customer, geographic, or product mix; •Introduction of new products, including the introduction of the new family of videoscopes; •Our ability to reduce production costs; •Our entry into new markets, including markets with different pricing and cost structures, through acquisitions, such as our acquisition of the assets of BEST Dysphasia, Inc., or internal development •Increases in material or labor costs; •Changes in shipment volume; •Loss of cost savings due to changes in component pricing including the affect of foreign exchange rates for components purchased overseas; •Increased price competition, especially due to the anticipated introduction of our family of videoscopes; •Changes in distribution channels; and •Increased warranty costs. Product quality problems could lead to reduced revenue, gross margins and net income We produce highly complex videoscope products that incorporate leading-edge technology, including both hardware and software. Software typically contains bugs that can unexpectedly interfere with expected operations. There can be no assurance that our Quality Assurance testing programs will be adequate to detect all defects, either ones in individual products or ones that could affect numerous shipments, which might interfere with customer satisfaction, reduce sales opportunities, or affect gross margins. In the past, we have had to replace certain components and provide remediation in response to the discovery of defects or bugs in products that we had shipped. Although the cost of such remediation has not been material in the past, there can be no assurance that such a remediation, depending on the product involved, would not have a material impact. An inability to cure a product defect could result in the failure of a product line, temporary or permanent withdrawal from a product or market, damage to our reputation, inventory costs, or product reengineering expenses, any of which could have a material impact on our revenue, margins, and net income. Our costs could substantially increase if we experience a significant number of warranty claims We provide 12-month product warranties against technical defects of our fiberscopes, and intend to offer a similar warranty for our new line of videoscopes. Our product warranty requires us to repair defects arising from product design and production process, and if necessary, replace defective components. Historically, we have received a limited number of warranty claims for our fiberscopes, but we are introducing a new line of videoscopes. The costs associated with our warranty claims have historically been relatively low. Thus, we generally do not accrue a significant liability contingency for potential warranty claims. As we only recently developed our videoscope line, we do not currently have historical data on potential warranty claims. If we experience an increase in warranty claims, or if our repair and replacement costs associated with warranty claims increase significantly, we will begin to incur liabilities for potential warranty claims 35 after the sale of our products at levels that we have not previously incurred or anticipated. In addition, an increase in the frequency of warranty claims or amount of warranty costs may harm our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Product liability suits against us may result in expensive and time consuming litigation, payment of substantial damages, and an increase in our insurance rates The development, manufacture, and sale of our products involve a significant risk of product liability claims. We maintain product liability insurance with coverage limits of $22 million. We believe that this level of coverage is adequate, given our past sales levels, our anticipated sales levels for FY 09, and our claims experience. We will re-evaluate the adequacy of this coverage when and if our sales substantially increase, or another need arises. No product liability claims have been brought against us to date. However, there can be no assurance that product liability insurance will continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or that product liability claims in excess of our insurance coverage, if any, will not be successfully asserted against us in the future. We sell our products in numerous international markets Our operating results may suffer if we are unable to manage our international sales and marketing activities effectively. We sell some of our products in foreign countries, and we therefore are subject to risks associated with having international sales, such as: •foreign certification and regulatory requirements; •maintenance of agreements with competent distributors; •import and export controls; •currency exchange fluctuation; and •political and economic instability. Sales to unaffiliated customers outside of the United States were approximately $1,390 and $3,733 for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our operating results could be negatively impacted by economic, political or other developments in countries in which we do business Our business requires us to move some goods across international borders. Any events that interfere with, or increase the costs of, the transfer of goods across international borders could have a material adverse effect on our business. We transport some of our goods across international borders, primarily those of the United States, Canada, Europe, Japan and Israel. Since September 11, 2001, there has been more intense scrutiny of goods that are transported across international borders. As a result, we may face delays, and increase in costs due to such delays in delivering goods to our customers. Any events that interfere with, or increase the costs of the transfer of goods across international borders could have a material adverse effect on our business. Conditions in Israel affect our operations and may limit our ability to produce and sell our products Currently we use several subcontractors in Israel to develop and produce some of our products. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel may directly affect our operations, and we could be adversely affected by hostilities involving Israel, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel. Israel frequently has been subject to terrorist activity, with varying levels of severity, and the United States 36 Department of State has issued an advisory regarding travel to Israel. According to the U.S. Department of State's website, the violence in Iraq and the clashes between Palestinians and Israelis have the potential to produce demonstrations and unrest throughout the region. Also, although it has not yet occurred, the political and security situation in Israel may result in certain parties with whom we have contracts claiming that they are not obligated to perform their commitments pursuant to force majeure provisions of those contracts. In addition, since some of the components of our manufacturing and research and development sub-contractors are located in Israel, we could experience disruption of our manufacturing, and research and development activities due to terrorist attacks. If terrorist acts were to result in substantial damage to our sub-contractors facilities, our business activities would be disrupted, and our revenues may be severely impacted. Our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur, and any losses or damages sustained by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our operating results Because some of our business includes international business transactions, costs and prices of our products or components in overseas countries are affected by foreign exchange rate changes. As a result, foreign exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Given the current weakness of the dollar, it is likely that we will have to pay more for certain components or subassemblies, which may harm our results, particularly as most of our sales take place in the United States. Currently, we do not enter into foreign exchange forward contracts and we do not hedge anticipated foreign currency cash flows. We are exposed to credit risk of some of our customers Most of our sales are on an open credit basis, with typical payment terms of 30 days in the United States and, because of local customs or conditions, longer in some markets outside the United States. We monitor individual customer payment capability in granting such open credit arrangements, seek to limit such open credit to amounts we believe the customers can pay, and maintain reserves we believe are adequate to cover exposure for doubtful accounts. Beyond our open credit arrangements, we have also experienced demands for customer financing and facilitation of leasing arrangements, which we refer to leasing companies unrelated to us. Our exposure to the credit risks may increase if there is an economic slowdown. Although we have programs in place that are designed to monitor and mitigate the associated risk, there can be no assurance that such programs will be effective in reducing our credit risks. Future credit losses, if incurred, could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. A portion of our sales is derived through our distributors and retail partners. These distributors and retail partners are generally given business terms that allow them to return a portion of inventory, receive credits for changes in selling prices, and participate in various cooperative marketing programs. We maintain estimated accruals and allowances for such business terms. However, distributors tend to have more limited financial resources than other resellers and end-user customers and therefore represent potential sources of increased credit risk because they may be more likely to lack the reserve resources to meet payment obligations. 37 We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights or technology effectively Our success depends in part on our ability to maintain patent protection for our products, to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. There can be no assurance that our pending patent applications will result in patents being issued, or that our competitors will not circumvent, or challenge the validity of, any patents issued to us. There can be no assurance that measures taken by us to protect our proprietary information will prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of this information or that others will not be able to independently develop such information. In addition, in the event that another party infringes our patent rights or other proprietary rights, the enforcement of such rights is at our option and can be a lengthy and costly process, with no guarantee of success. Moreover, there can be no assurance that claims alleging infringement by us of other's proprietary rights will not be brought against us in the future or that any such claims will not be successful. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, our ability to market or be competitive with respect to some or all of our products may be affected, which could reduce our sales and affect our ability to become profitable. There can be no assurance that our pending patent applications will result in patents being issued or that our competitors will not circumvent, or challenge the validity of, any patents issued to us. In addition, in the event that another party infringes our patent rights, the enforcement of such rights is at our option and can be a lengthy and costly process, with no guarantee of success. Some of the technology used in, and that may be important to, our products is not covered by any patent or patent application. We seek to maintain the confidentiality of our proprietary technology by requiring all our employees to sign confidentiality agreements, and by limiting access by outside parties to such confidential information. However, there can be no assurance that these measures will prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of this information, or that others will not be able to independently develop such information. Moreover, as is the case with our patent rights, the enforcement of our trade secret rights can be lengthy and costly, with no guarantee of success. We may not be able to complete our consolidation on time On May 1, 2008, we entered into a definitive lease agreement (the "Lease"), with Ramland Realty Associates, L.L.C. (the "Landlord"), for our new premises, consisting of approximately 34,795 square feet at One Ramland Road, Orangeburg, New York. The new premises will permit us to complete our previously announced consolidation of our Natick manufacturing facilities with our Orangeburg research and development, manufacturing and office facilities into one site. However, if we are unable to do so by the time our short term lease in Natick expires in December 2008, and we are unable to extend it for an additional period of time, it could disrupt our production of the EndoSheath, which could adversely affect the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 