Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company may not be able to continue to operate as a going concern. The Company has determined that significant additional sources of capital will likely be required to continue operations in the future. Further, the Company’s and the Bank’s regulators are continually monitoring capital adequacy and liquidity and evaluating the Bank’s ability to continue to operate in a safe and sound manner. The Bank’s regulators could, if deemed warranted, take further actions, including the assumption of control of the Bank, to protect the interests of the deposits insured by the FDIC. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to raise capital to satisfy regulatory requirements. The uncertainty regarding the Company’s ability to obtain additional capital and to comply with regulatory requirements raises doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The consolidated financial statements included under Part II, Item 8 of this report, however, do not include any adjustments that may result as an outcome of these uncertainties. Capital necessary to absorb losses and return the Bank to compliance with regulatory standards may not be available. The Company and the Bank are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support operations. The Company is exploring alternatives to raise additional capital to support operations and absorb loan losses, but the Company’s ability to raise additional capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets, which are outside the Company’s control, and on the Company’s financial performance and prospects. Accordingly, the Company cannot be certain of its ability to raise additional capital. The Bank’s 11 Table of Contents regulatory capital ratios are currently categorized as “under-capitalized.” In addition, we entered into a Consent Order with the FDIC and Washington Department of Financial Institutions that requires the Bank to increase capital ratios above the “well-capitalized” level and if the Company and the Bank cannot raise capital to such levels the Bank could face additional adverse regulatory action. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our financial condition and our ability to maintain or improve our capital position to support our operations and to continue as a going concern could be materially impaired. The Company and the Bank are subject to various additional regulatory requirements due to our current condition that impose significant burdens and costs. In light of the challenging operating environment over the past eighteen months, along with the Bank’s elevated level of nonperforming assets, delinquencies and adversely classified assets, the Company and the Bank have been subject to increased regulatory requirements and heightened scrutiny by regulators, and the Bank has agreed to the entry of a Consent Order by the FDIC and DFI. Such agreements place limitations on our business and adversely affect our ability to implement our business plans, including our growth strategy. Bank management is required to commit significant time and resources to compliance with the Consent Order. The Bank’s lending activities and the rates the Bank pays to attract retail deposits in its local markets are limited. The Bank is required to reduce levels of nonperforming assets to a level acceptable by the FDIC. Selling loans or other real estate owned at this point in today’s distressed real estate markets might not result in maximizing the price that might otherwise be received for the underlying properties. In addition, if such restrictions are also imposed upon other institutions that operate in the Bank’s markets or the FDIC is disposing of assets acquired from failed institutions, our ability to sell assets at reasonable prices could be further diminished. The FDIC and DFI are also requiring the Bank to reduce the level of classified assets, increase capital, and address other criticisms from our regulatory examination. The added costs of compliance with additional regulatory requirements could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and earnings. Failure to comply with the Consent Order could result in additional regulatory burdens, further restrictions on our operations and significant compliance costs. Our access to funding to meet our liquidity needs may be limited. Liquidity is crucial to the operation of the Company and the Bank. Liquidity risk is the potential that we will be unable to fund increases in assets or meet payment obligations, including obligations to depositors, as they become due because of an inability to obtain adequate funding or liquidate assets. For example, funding illiquidity may arise if we are unable to attract core deposits or are unable to renew at acceptable pricing long-term borrowings or short-term borrowings from the overnight inter-bank market, the Federal Home Loan Bank System, brokered deposits, or the Federal Reserve discount window. As a result of the Bank’s regulatory capital falling below the requirements for well-capitalized status as of December 31, 2009, and the Bank’s Consent Order, the Bank is unable to issue, renew or rollover brokered certificates of deposit and faces regulatory limits in the rates it can pay to depositors. At December 31, 2009, the Bank had $163.1 million of brokered deposits maturing through 2014. Due to decreases in our regulatory capital levels, we have limited access to borrow funds unless we provide additional collateral to secure our repayment obligations. As with many community banks, correspondent banks have withdrawn or reduced unsecured lines of credit or now require collateralization for the purchases of federal funds in a short-term basis due to the current adverse economic environment. At December 31, 2009, the Bank had one $7.3 million collateralized line of credit with a correspondent bank. We may also experience illiquidity due to unexpected cash outflows on committed lines of credit or financial guarantees or due to unexpected events. The increasingly competitive retail deposit environment increases liquidity risk (and increases our cost of funds) as increasingly sophisticated depositors move funds more frequently in search of higher rates or better opportunities. The Bank’s liquidity may be negatively impacted by the Consent Order and public perception of banks. The Bank participates in the FDIC’s Transaction Account Guarantee (TAG) Program, which is set to expire on June 30, 2010. The TAG Program provides unlimited deposit insurance to deposits held in qualifying 12 Table of Contents noninterest-bearing transaction accounts, and customers whose deposits are insured under the TAG Program may reassess their deposit levels after June 30, 2010. If the Bank is unable to control liquidity risks, replace brokered deposits and maintain current liquidity levels, there may be materially adverse effects on our results of operations and financial condition. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected the financial services industry. For more than twenty four months capital and credit markets have experienced unprecedented volatility and disruption. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer loan delinquencies and defaults, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressures on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets have adversely affected the Bank’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company does not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on the Bank and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, the Bank may face the following risks in connection with these events: • Additional legislation and increased regulation; • Impaired ability to assess the creditworthiness of its customers if the models and approaches the Bank uses to select, manage, and underwrite its loans become less predictive of future behaviors and performance; • The process the Bank uses to estimate losses inherent in its credit exposure requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of the Bank’s borrowers to repay their loans, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process; • The Bank’s ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions and government sponsored entities; • Increased competition due to intensified consolidation of the financial services industry; and • If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that the Company will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on its ability to access capital and on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Most of the Bank’s assets are loans, which if not repaid would result in losses to the Bank. The Bank is subject to credit risk, which is the risk of losing principal or interest due to borrowers’ failure to repay loans in accordance with their terms. Underwriting and documentation controls do not always work effectively. A further downturn in the economy or the real estate market in the market areas or a rapid increase in interest rates could have a negative effect on collateral values and borrowers’ ability to repay. To the extent loans are not paid timely by borrowers, the loans are placed on nonaccrual status, thereby reducing interest income. Further, under these circumstances, an additional provision for loan and lease losses or unfunded commitments may be required. 13 Table of Contents The Bank has a significant concentration in real estate loans and continued deterioration in the economy of the markets served or the real estate market specifically could significantly harm its business and prospects for growth. As of December 31, 2009, the loan portfolio consisted of: • 51 percent commercial real estate loans • 12 percent construction, land development and other land loans • 11 percent residential real estate loans • 5 percent multi-family real estate loans • 20 percent commercial and industrial; and • 1 percent installment and other loans. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 79% of the Bank’s loan portfolio is secured by real estate, the majority of which is commercial real estate. As a result of increased levels of commercial and consumer delinquencies and declining real estate values, the Bank has experienced increasing levels of net charge-offs and allowances for loan and lease reserves. Continued increases in commercial and consumer delinquency levels or continued declines in real estate market values would require increased net charge-offs and increases in the allowance for loan and lease losses, which could have a material adverse effect on the Bank’s business, financial condition and results of operations and prospects. A substantial amount of the Company’s real property collateral is located in southwest Washington, the Portland, Oregon metropolitan area and the Puget Sound area of Washington, and a further downturn in the real estate markets or prolonged recessionary climate could harm the Company’s business. The effects of the current economic recession have been particularly severe in the Company’s primary market areas. The States of Washington and Oregon and certain local governments in the market areas presently face fiscal challenges the long term impact of which on State or local economies cannot be predicted. Significant declines in housing prices and property values have been particularly severe. A further downturn in economic conditions or a prolonged delay in recovery could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the business: loan delinquencies may increase; problem assets and foreclosures may increase resulting in further price pressures on valuations generally; demand for products and services may decrease; low cost or noninterest-bearing deposits may decrease; and collateral for loans made by the Bank, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans. As a financial services company, our business and earnings are significantly affected by general business and economic conditions, particularly in the real estate industry, and accordingly, our business and earnings could be further harmed in the event of a continuation or deepening of the current U.S. recession or further market deterioration or disruption. Our business and earnings are sensitive to general business, economic and market conditions in the United States. These conditions include changes in short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, deflation, fluctuation in the real estate and debt capital markets, developments in national and regional economies and changes in government policies and regulations. Our business and earnings are particularly sensitive to economic and market conditions affecting the real estate industry because much of our loan portfolio consists of commercial real estate, construction and residential loans. While generally containing lower risk than unsecured loans, commercial real estate and construction loans generally involve higher credit risk than conventional single-family residential loans. Such loans also generally involve larger individual loan balances. In addition, real estate construction loans may be affected to a greater extent than residential loans by adverse conditions in real 14 Table of Contents estate markets or the economy because many real estate construction borrowers’ ability to repay their loans is dependent on successful development of their properties, as well as the factors affecting residential real estate borrowers. Risk of loss on a construction loan depends largely upon whether the initial estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction equals or exceeds the cost of property construction (including interest) and the availability of permanent take-out financing. During the construction phase, a number of factors can result in delays and cost overruns. Construction and commercial real estate loans also involve greater risk because they may not be fully amortizing over the loan period, but have a balloon payment due at maturity. A borrower’s ability to make a balloon payment may depend on the borrower being able to refinance the loan, timely sell the underlying property or liquidate other assets. The current U.S. recession has resulted in a reduction in the value of the real estate assets securing a large portion of the loans that we hold. An increasing number of borrowers have become delinquent or defaulted on their loans, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations and financial condition. A further increase in the number of delinquencies or defaults would result in higher levels of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs and provision for loan losses, adversely affecting our results of operations and financial condition. Negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact our earnings and liquidity. Reputational risk, or the risk to our business, earnings, liquidity, and capital from negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in a variety of areas, including legal and regulatory compliance, lending practices, corporate governance, litigation, ethical issues, or inadequate protection of customer information. We expend significant resources to comply with regulatory requirements. Failure to comply could result in reputational harm or significant legal or remedial costs. Damage to our reputation could adversely affect our ability to retain and attract new customers, and adversely impact our earnings, liquidity and stock price. Recent and proposed legislation in response to market and economic conditions may not stabilize the financial services industry or the U.S. economy. In response to the financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets over the past two years, new legislation and regulation affecting the Company and the Bank has been adopted, in particular the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA), the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA), and their implementing regulations, as well as actions by the FDIC. The long term effect of these actions cannot be predicted at this time. A number of programs have been and are being developed and implemented under EESA and ARRA. The failure of EESA and ARRA to ultimately improve the condition of the U.S. banking system could significantly adversely impact our business, our financial condition, our financial results, our access to funding or capital as well as the trading price of our common stock or other instruments. We may face increased regulation of our industry. In addition to EESA, ARRA, related regulations and FDIC actions, we expect Congress, the State of Washington, the FDIC, DFI and Federal Reserve to implement new initiatives that could have a detrimental impact on the Company and the Bank. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Also, participation in specific programs may subject us to additional restrictions. The financial services industry is heavily regulated and additional laws and regulations are often considered at the state and federal level. These laws and regulations are primarily intended to protect customers, depositors and the deposit insurance fund, rather than shareholders. The Bank is a Washington state-chartered commercial bank whose primary regulator is the Washington Department of Financial Institutions. The Bank is also subject to the supervision by and the regulations of the FDIC, which insures bank deposits. The Company is subject to regulation and supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the SEC and NASDAQ. Federal and state regulations may place banks at a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors such as finance companies, credit unions, mortgage banking companies and leasing companies. If we receive less than satisfactory results on regulatory examinations, we could be restricted from 15 Table of Contents making acquisitions, adding new branches, developing new lines of business or otherwise continuing our growth strategy for a period of time. Future changes in federal and state banking regulations could adversely affect our operating results and ability to continue to compete effectively. If we are able to raise additional capital, the terms on which we can raise capital may adversely affect existing shareholders. The Company needs to raise additional capital, and any equity financing, if available at all, is expected to significantly dilute the Company’s existing shareholders. In the event additional capital is unavailable on acceptable terms, we may take steps to preserve capital, including possibly slowing our lending activities and new loan commitments, selling certain assets or increasing loan participations. The holding company relies on dividends from the Bank to meet its cash obligations. Dividends paid by the Bank to the Company provide cash flow used to service interest payments on trust preferred securities. Various statutory provisions restrict the amount of dividends the Bank can pay to the Company without regulatory approval. The Bank is currently restricted from paying dividends and we do not expect the Bank to be able to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. If the Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Company, the Company may not be able to service its debt or pay its obligations. The inability to receive dividends from the Bank would adversely affect the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We are subject to restrictions on our ability to declare or pay dividends on and repurchase shares of our common stock. We previously announced that we would defer, as permitted under the terms of indentures, interest payments on junior subordinated debentures issued in connection with trust preferred securities. We are permitted to defer such interest payments for up to 20 consecutive quarters, but during a deferral period we are prohibited from making dividend payments on our capital stock. In addition, our ability to pay dividends, and the Bank’s ability to pay dividends to us, is limited by regulatory restrictions and the need to maintain sufficient capital. We are currently restricted from paying dividends unless we receive prior regulatory approval and we are subject to formal regulatory restrictions that will continue to prohibit us from declaring or paying any dividend without prior approval of banking regulators. Although we can seek to obtain a waiver of such prohibition, we would not expect to be granted such waiver or to be released from this obligation until our financial performance improves significantly. Therefore, we may not be able to make payments of dividends in the future. The value of certain securities in our investment securities portfolio may be negatively affected by disruptions in the market for these securities. The market for certain investment securities held within our investment portfolio has over the past year become more volatile. The volatile market may detrimentally affect the value of these securities, such as through reduced valuations due to the perception of heightened credit and liquidity risks, in addition to interest rate risk typically associated with these securities. There can be no assurance that the declines in market value associated with these disruptions will not result in other-than-temporary or permanent impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s net income and capital levels. Market and other constraints on our construction loan origination volumes are expected to lead to decreases in the Company’s interest and fee income that are not expected to be offset by reductions in our noninterest expenses. Due to existing conditions in housing markets in the areas where we operate and other factors, management projects our construction loan originations to be materially constrained throughout 2010. This will lower interest 16 Table of Contents income and fees generated from this part of our business. Unless this revenue decline is offset by other areas of our operations, our total revenues may decline relative to our total noninterest expenses. Management expects that it will be difficult to find new revenue sources in the near term to completely offset expected declines in our interest income. The Company is extremely sensitive to the economy of the Pacific Northwest. We operate primarily in Cowlitz County, Washington, the Seattle/Bellevue metropolitan area, and the Vancouver, Washington and Portland, Oregon metropolitan area. Local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on: • the ability of our customers to repay loans; • the value of collateral securing loans; • the demand for our products and services; and • the stability of deposits that create liquidity to support lending activities. Deteriorating real estate market conditions and an economic downturn in the Pacific Northwest have negatively affected our business. Worsening conditions in the Pacific Northwest real estate markets could continue to adversely affect our borrowers’ ability to repay as well as affect the value of the collateral underlying our loans, resulting in an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The Bank has increased levels of other real estate owned (“OREO”). Many of our loans are secured by real estate located in Washington and Oregon. A decline in the real estate market could lead to a decrease in the value of our OREO. We foreclose on and take title to the real estate serving as collateral for many of our loans as part of our business. Increased OREO balances lead to greater expenses as we incur costs to manage and dispose of the properties. We expect that our earnings in 2010 will be negatively affected by various expenses associated with OREO, including personnel costs, insurance and taxes, completion and repair costs, and other costs associated with property ownership, as well as by the funding costs associated with assets that are tied up in OREO. Any decrease in market prices may lead to OREO write downs, with a corresponding expense in our income statement. Interest rates are subject to constant, often unpredictable changes and could have an adverse effect on our earnings. Interest and fees on loans and securities, net of interest paid on deposits and borrowings, are a large part of the Company’s net income. Interest rates are key drivers of net interest margin and are subject to many factors beyond the control of management. As interest rates change, net interest income is affected. Rapid increases in interest rates in the future could result in interest expense increasing faster than interest income because of mismatches in financial instrument maturities. Rapid decreases in interest rates could result in interest income decreasing faster than interest expense, for example, if management is unable to match decreases in earning assets yields, with reduced rates paid on deposits or borrowings. Periods of low market interest rates, such as exist today, has adversely affected our net interest spread and net interest income because our earning assets yield decreases during a time that our cost of interest-bearing liabilities is already low and cannot be reduced further. Further, substantially higher interest rates generally reduce loan demand and may result in slower loan growth, particularly in construction lending. A rapid rise in interest rates could also reduce debt service coverage ratios of borrowers. Decreases or increases in interest rates could have a negative effect on the spreads between the interest rates earned on assets and the rates of interest paid on liabilities, and therefore decrease net interest income. For more information on this topic see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” 17 Table of Contents Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate. We maintain an allowance for estimated loan losses that we believe is adequate for absorbing the inherent losses in our loan portfolio. Management determines the provision for loan losses based on a continual evaluation of lending concentrations, specific credit risks, past loan loss experience, loan portfolio and collateral quality, and relevant economic, political and regulatory conditions. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating, and other conditions, including changes in interest rates and deteriorating values in underlying collateral (much of which consists of real estate) that may be beyond our control, and such losses may exceed the allowance for estimated loan losses. Although management believes that the allowance for estimated loan losses is adequate to absorb any inherent losses on existing loans that may become uncollectible, there can be no assurance that the allowance will prove sufficient to cover actual loan losses in the future. Significant increases to the provision for loan losses may be necessary if our assumptions are incorrect or material adverse changes in general economic conditions occur or the performance of our loan portfolio deteriorates. An extended recession or further weakening of the economy or a specific industry sector or a rapid change in market rates could adversely affect our borrowers’ ability to repay loans. Additionally, banking regulators, as an integral part of their supervisory function, periodically review the allowance for estimated loan losses. If these regulatory agencies require us to increase the allowance for estimated loan losses, it could have a negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s common stock may not qualify for listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market. On March 3, 2010, the Company received notice from NASDAQ that the Company’s stock could be delisted from NASDAQ because of the failure to meet a standard requiring a minimum of 500,000 publicly held shares. If the Company’s shares are subject to delisting from the NASDAQ Capital Market, there is no assurance that a liquid and efficient market for Cowlitz Bancorporation common stock will be available or develop. Although the shares may be eligible for trading on other exchanges, such as the “OTC Bulletin Board,” it is possible that the ability of a selling shareholder to realize the best market price will be impeded as the result of wider bid-ask spreads. Increases in deposit insurance premiums and special FDIC assessments will reduce the Company’s earnings. Beginning in late 2008, the economic environment caused higher levels of bank failures, which dramatically increased FDIC resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the Deposit Insurance Fund. As a result, the FDIC has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. The base assessment annual rate was increased by seven basis points (seven cents for every $100 of deposits) for the first quarter of 2009. Effective April 1, 2009, initial base assessment rates were changed to range from 12 basis points to 45 basis points across all risk categories with possible adjustments to these rates based on certain debt-related components. These increases in the base assessment rate have increased the Company’s deposit insurance costs and negatively impacted earnings. In addition, in May 2009, the FDIC imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions due to recent bank and savings association failures. The emergency assessment amounted to five basis points on each institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, subject to a maximum equal to 10 basis points times the institution’s assessment base. The FDIC may impose additional special assessments in the future. The Company’s FDIC deposit insurance expense for 2009 was $2.0 million compared with $378,000 in 2008 and $103,000 in 2007. The Bank’s investment in FHLB stock may become impaired. As of December 31, 2009, the Bank held $1.2 million of FHLB stock as required under certain borrowing agreements. During the first quarter of 2009, the FHLB indicated that its ability to pay future dividends was uncertain due to reduction of its retained earnings resulting from the recognition of investment security impairments. The valuation of the FHLB stock with the Bank may become impaired if the FHLB is unable to pay a cash dividend or continues to experience significant losses for an extended period. During 2009, the Company did not recognize any dividend income from FHLB stock. 18 Table of Contents We rely on the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) of Seattle as a source of liquidity. The Company is highly dependent on the FHLB of Seattle to provide a source of wholesale funding for immediate liquidity and borrowing needs. Changes or disruptions to the FHLB of Seattle or the FHLB system in general, may materially impair the Company’s ability to meet its growth plans or to meet short and long term liquidity demands. Recently, the FHLB of Seattle announced that it met all minimum regulatory capital requirements as of September 30, 2009. However, the Federal Housing Finance Agency exercised its discretionary authority to reaffirm FHLB of Seattle’s “under-capitalized” classification as it had at the end of the quarters ended March 31, 2009 and June 30, 2009. The Federal Housing Finance Agency action was reportedly taken because of the possibility that modest declines in the values of FHLB of Seattle’s private-label mortgage-backed securities could cause its risk-based capital to fall below the minimum requirements. While the FHLB of Seattle has announced it does not anticipate that additional capital is immediately necessary, and believes that its capital level is adequate to support realized losses in the future, the FHLB of Seattle could require its members, including the Company, to contribute additional capital in order to return the FHLB of Seattle to compliance with capital guidelines. At December 31, 2009, the Company maintained a line of credit with the FHLB of Seattle for 20 percent of the Bank’s total assets, subject to collateral requirements. At December 31, 2009, $55.0 million of the line of credit was available for additional borrowings. We may be subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. In the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing loans. There is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances will be found on these properties, in which case we may be liable for remediation costs and related personal injury and property damage. Compliance with environmental laws may require the Bank to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. Environmental indemnifications obtained from borrowers and their principals or affiliates may not adequately compensate the Bank for losses related to environmental conditions. The remediation costs and financial liabilities associated with environmental conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on our information technology and communications systems to conduct our business. We rely heavily on communications, electricity, and information systems to conduct our business. In addition, we rely on third parties to provide key components of our infrastructure, including loan, deposit and general ledger processing, internet connections, and network access. Any disruption in service of these key components could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise to conduct our operations. Furthermore, security breaches of our information systems or data, whether managed by us or by third parties, could harm our reputation or cause a decrease in the number of customers that choose to do business with us. Security breaches could also subject the Bank to additional regulatory scrutiny and expose the Bank to civil litigation and possible financial liability. The financial services industry is extremely competitive. The Company competes with well-established, large banks based outside of the region, community banks, credit unions, thrift institutions, investment banking firms, insurance companies, payday loan offices and mortgage lenders for depositors and borrowers. Management believes the most significant competitive factor is customer service, in addition to competitively priced loans and deposits, for structure, branch locations and the range of banking products and services offered. Offices of the major financial institutions have competitive advantages over the Company in that they have high public visibility, may offer a wider variety of products and are able to maintain advertising and marketing activities on a much larger scale than the Company can economically maintain. Since single borrower lending 19 Table of Contents limits imposed by law are dependent on the capital of the institution, the branches of larger institutions with substantial capital bases also have an advantage with respect to loan applications that are in excess of the Company’s legal lending limits. We are currently in a particularly competitive market for low cost deposits, which has led to increase pressure on our deposit balances and net interest margin. In competing for deposits, the Company is subject to certain limitations not applicable to non-bank financial institution competitors. In Cowlitz County, the main source of competition for deposits is the relatively large number of credit unions. Large new entrants into the deposit market, such as GMAC, American Express and Morgan Stanley, have much greater resources than we do and a history of competing aggressively in consumer and business markets. Federal and State regulations applicable only to banks and bank holding companies also place banks at a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors such as finance companies, credit unions, mortgage banking companies and leasing companies. Although the Company has been able to compete effectively in its market area in the past, there can be no assurance that it will be able to continue to do so. With significant competition in the Company’s market areas, there can be no assurance that the Company can continue to attract significant loan and deposit customers. The inability to attract these customers could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and results of operations. We may not be able to attract or retain key banking employees. We strive to attract and retain key banking professionals, management and staff. Competition to attract the best professionals in the industry can be intense which will limit our ability to hire new professionals. Banking related revenues and net income could be adversely affected in the event of the unexpected loss of key personnel. Our business may be harmed by adverse events at other financial institutions. Financial institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, correspondent banking, counterparty, and other relationships and because of regulatory factors. We enter into transactions with financial services companies, including commercial banks and correspondent banks. Many of these transactions expose the Company and the Bank to credit and bankruptcy risk in the event of a default or bankruptcy by a counterparty. The Bank may also be negatively impacted by the failure of other banks. For example, as a depository of public funds, the Bank will be assessed, and the Bank is statutorily obligated to pay, a pro rata share of the losses of public funds held at a failed public depository in Oregon and Washington. In addition, assessments the Bank pays to the FDIC and others, including deposit insurance premiums, will increase even further in the event of bank failures or other adverse events affecting the banking system generally or the Bank in particular. Recently, the FHLB of Seattle announced that it did not meet minimum regulatory capital requirements, due to the deterioration in the market value of their mortgage-backed securities portfolio. As a result, the FHLB of Seattle cannot pay a dividend on their common stock and it cannot repurchase or redeem common stock. While the FHLB of Seattle has announced it does not anticipate that additional capital is immediately necessary, nor does it believe that its capital level is inadequate to support realized losses in the future, the FHLB of Seattle could require its members, including Cowlitz Bank, to contribute additional capital in order to return the FHLB of Seattle to compliance with capital guidelines. We are highly dependent on the FHLB of Seattle to provide the primary source of wholesale funding for immediate liquidity and borrowing needs. The failure of the FHLB of Seattle or the FHLB system in general, may materially impair our ability to meet our growth plans or to meet short and long term liquidity needs. Should the FHLB of Seattle fail, we anticipate that our investment in the FHLB’s common stock would be “other-than-temporarily” impaired and may have no value. 20 Table of Contents Changes in accounting standards may impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. Some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets, liabilities and financial results. Periodically, new accounting standards are imposed or existing standards are revised. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 