Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties we describe below and other information in this Annual Report before deciding to invest in, or retain, shares of our common stock. These are not the only risks and uncertainties that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not currently know about or that we currently believe are not material, or that we have not predicted, may also harm our business operations or adversely affect us. If any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition, operating results or liquidity could be materially harmed. 14 We have a history of operating losses, we may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future, and we will require additional financing, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all We have incurred substantial operating losses since our inception and there can be no assurance that we will ever achieve or sustain a profitable level of operations in the future. We anticipate that we will continue to incur negative cash flows from operations during fiscal 2014, driven by continued investment in a direct sales force for the U.S. market, spending for marketing, and general business operations. As of March 31, 2013, we had cash and cash equivalents totaling approximately $0.8 million. We expect that our cash at March 31, 2013, together with the $3 million of capital available under a convertible note dated September 19, 2012 and $5.0 million of capital to be made available to us, subject to certain conditions, under a letter agreement dated June 21, 2013 from Lewis C. Pell, our Chairman (see Note 13. Subsequent Event for additional information), should be sufficient to fund our operations through at least March 31, 2014. However, if our performance expectations fall short (including our failure to generate expected levels of sales) or our expenses exceed expectations, we will need to reduce our expenses and/or secure additional funding to support our operational needs in the future, and we cannot be certain that such funding will be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all, particularly in light of current economic and capital market conditions for companies of our size. Any capital raising necessary to continue our operations may be through one or a combination of approaches, which could include public or private financing, issuances of equity or debt, sale or partnering of one or more of our assets or other strategic initiatives. Any public or private financings involving issuances of common stock or other classes of our equity would likely dilute existing stockholders’ percentage ownership. If we are unable to obtain funding to support operations, we will be forced to curtail our operations and we may be less likely to develop and market products successfully, which would have a material adverse impact on our prospects and financial condition. If required, we believe we would be able to reduce our expenses to a sufficient level to continue to operate as a going concern. Our supply agreement with Stryker may not meet our expectations Under our agreement with Stryker, we supply to Stryker our flexible video and fiber cystoscopes and related EndoSheath products for a term of three years after the launch of these products, which occurred in April 2011. We also supply Stryker with flexible ureteroscopes under the same agreement. This product was launched in December 2012 and carries the same three-year term as our cystoscopes and EndoSheath products. Stryker has the exclusive rights to distribute these products in North and Latin America, South America, China and Japan. There can be no assurance of the quantity of products Stryker will purchase from us or whether Stryker will succeed in marketing and selling these products. If they do not purchase products from us or are unsuccessful in marketing or selling these products, we will not be able to distribute those products to others and could generate little or no revenue from the Stryker agreement. There also can be no assurance that Stryker will agree to distribute our cystoscopes and related EndoSheath products beyond the current expiration of the existing agreement, beginning in April 2014. Failure to obtain sourcing of critical components on acceptable terms will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition In our medical and industrial segments, certain components for our fiberscopes and videoscopes are generally only available from one source with which we do not have a short- or long-term agreement for purchases. Our inability to obtain any such parts could delay or prevent us from making and selling products, which would have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the success of our videoscope sales will depend in part on our ability to manufacture these videoscopes in sufficient quantities and with sufficient quality to meet customer demand. We do not have fixed long term supply agreements with our suppliers for components and subassemblies for our videoscopes. The failure or inability of one of these key suppliers to meet our production quantity and quality needs on terms that are acceptable to us, if at all, could have a material adverse effect on the sales of our videoscopes, their acceptance into the marketplace and our long-term prospects. In our industrial segment, borescopes are assembled using components and subassemblies purchased from independent vendors. While most components and subassemblies are currently available from more than one supplier, certain critical components are currently purchased only from limited key suppliers with which we do not have long or short term contracts. Our failure to obtain a sufficient quantity of such components on favorable terms could materially adversely affect sales in our industrial segment. 15 If we fail to effectively manage our sales force or our distribution network, our business, prospects, and brand may be materially and adversely affected We sell our products through a combination of a direct sales force and independent distributors. We have limited experience in managing a direct sales force and we cannot assure you that we will be able to build and grow an effective direct sales force or successfully develop our relationships with third-party, outside distributors. The expansion of our sales force and distribution network is requiring an investment of financial resources and management efforts, and the benefits, if any, which we gain from such expansion, may not be sufficient to generate an adequate return on our investment. If we fail to build and manage an effective direct sales force or successfully develop, maintain, and manage our relationships with distributors, our sales could fail to grow or could even decline and this would have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition. In addition, we have a limited ability to direct or influence the activities of our third-party independent distributors. Our distributors could take one or more of the following actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and brand: ● sell products that compete with our products in breach of their non-competition agreements with us; ● fail to adequately promote our products; or ● fail to provide proper service to our end-users. If we are unable to adequately manage our distribution network, or if our distributors fail to meet their obligations under their agreements with us, our corporate image among end users of our products could be damaged, resulting in a failure to meet our sales goals. In addition, foreign governments have increased their anti-bribery efforts in the healthcare sector to reduce improper payments received by hospital administrators and doctors in connection with the purchase of pharmaceutical products and medical devices. To our knowledge, none of our distributors engages in corrupt practices. However, our distributors may violate these laws or otherwise engage in illegal practices with respect to their sales or marketing of our products which would adversely affect our corporate image and business. Our failure to effectively expand our marketing efforts may materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, and brand Our marketing efforts span five broad medical markets: urology, critical care / pulmonology, surgery, GI, and ENT. We cannot assure you that we will be able to build our brand effectively to our end users in each of the markets that we serve. If we do not succeed, our sales could fail to grow or could even decline, and our ability to grow our business could be adversely affected. The expansion of our marketing efforts will require an investment of financial resources and management efforts, and the benefits, if any, which we gain from such expansion, may not be sufficient to generate an adequate return on our investment. We expect gross margins to vary over time, and our level of product gross margins may not be sustainable The current levels of our product gross margins may not be sustainable and may continue to be adversely affected by numerous factors, including: ● introduction of new products; ● our ability to reduce supply and production costs; ● increases in material or labor costs; ● changes in shipment volume; ● loss of cost savings due to changes in component pricing, including the impact of foreign exchange rates for components purchased overseas; ● changes in distribution channels; ● increased warranty costs; and ● the uncertainty of the timing and amounts for recognizing our specified margin of Stryker’s gross profit after Stryker sells the products to their end customers. 16 Our costs could substantially increase if we experience a significant number of warranty claims or recall events We provide 12-month product warranties against technical defects of our fiberscopes and videoscopes, and we offer a lifetime warranty for the LED light source on our videoscopes. Our product warranty requires us to repair defects arising from product design and production processes, and if necessary, replace defective components. Historically, we have received a limited number of warranty claims for our fiberscopes. The costs associated with our warranty claims have historically been relatively low. Thus, we generally do not accrue a significant liability contingency for potential warranty claims. If we experience an increase in warranty claims, or if our repair and replacement costs associated with warranty claims increase significantly, we will begin to incur liabilities for potential warranty claims after the sale of our products at levels that we have not previously incurred or anticipated. An increase in the frequency of warranty claims or amount of warranty costs may harm our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations as could product efficacy or safety concerns, whether or not based on scientific evidence, resulting in product withdrawals, recalls, regulatory action on the part of the FDA (or international counterparts) or declining sales;. We may not succeed in sustaining a market for our videoscopes Going forward, the long-term success of our videoscope system depends on several factors, including: ● our ability to successfully promote product awareness of our videoscopes; ● our ability to manufacture products in a timely and cost effective fashion on acceptable terms; ● competitive pricing of our videoscopes and add-on components; ● our ability to develop new applications to expand our family of videoscopes; ● retaining and growing an effective direct sales force in the U.S.; ● selecting and managing effective distributors internationally; ● Stryker’s ability to sell our videoscopes to its end customers; ● obtaining additional regulatory approvals or clearances for new components or systems in a timely manner; ● the relative costs and reimbursement profile, and benefits of procedures using our videoscope system as compared to other procedures; and ● the financial or other benefits gained by doctors that use our videoscopes with our EndoSheath disposables. Existing videoscope technology is a well-established method for obtaining clinical diagnoses. As a result, our videoscopes are competing in a market in which there are already several established industry players. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully market or sell our videoscopes in the future. We also cannot assure you that our videoscopes or any future enhancements to our videoscopes will generate adequate revenue to offset our investments and costs in acquiring, developing or marketing our videoscopes. If there is insufficient demand for our videoscopes, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. In addition, any announcement of new products, services or enhancements by us or our competitors may cause our customers to cancel or postpone purchasing decisions for our existing products in anticipation of these new products, services or enhancements. 17 Our stock price is volatile, and you may not be able to sell your shares for a profit The trading price of our common stock is highly volatile. Our common stock price could be subject to fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including: ● actual or anticipated variations in operating results; ● conditions or trends in the medical device market; ● announcements by us or our competitors of significant customer wins or losses, gains or losses of distributors; ● technological innovations, new products or services; ● addition or departures of key personnel; ● actual or expected sales of a large number of shares of our common stock; ● adverse litigation; ● unfavorable legislative or regulatory decisions; ● variations in interest rates; ● general market conditions; ● availability of components on acceptable terms; ● availability of distributor arrangements on favorable terms; and ● any of the other factors described in these “Risk Factors”. In addition, the stock market in general, the NASDAQ Capital Market, and the market for shares of novel technology and medical device companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Further, the market prices of life science companies have been unusually volatile in recent years, and such volatility may continue for the foreseeable future. These broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, this volatility and the low level of market liquidity for our common stock could adversely affect an investor’s ability to sell shares of our common stock and the available price for such shares, at any given time. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the target of securities class action litigation. We may become the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert management attention, which could seriously harm our business. The effects of the ongoing global economic slowdown may impact our business, operating results or financial condition The ongoing global economic slowdown has caused a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, and extreme volatility in credit, equity and fixed income markets. We believe these macroeconomic developments may negatively affect our business, operating results or financial condition in a number of ways. For example, current or potential customers may be unable to fund endoscope and EndoSheath disposable purchases, which could cause them to delay, decrease, or cancel purchases of our products and services, or to not pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased products. As a result, we may require more customers to purchase our products and services on a cash basis. In addition, any material adverse condition occurring with a supplier or distributor, including Stryker, would have a material adverse effect on our business. 18 Rapid growth and a rapidly changing operating environment may strain our limited resources Our growth strategy includes our efforts to increase our marketing and sales efforts to build our revenues and brand, develop new products, and increase market penetration of our videoscopes. This growth strategy requires significant capital resources, and we may not generate an adequate return on our investment. Our growth may involve the acquisition of new technologies, businesses, products or services, or the creation of strategic alliances. This could require our management to develop expertise in new areas, manage new business relationships and attract new types of customers. We may also experience difficulties integrating any acquired businesses, products or services into our existing business and operations. The success of our growth strategy also depends in part on our ability to utilize our financial, operational and management resources and to attract, train, motivate and manage an increasing number of employees. The success of our growth strategy depends on a number of internal and external factors, such as: ● the growth of our addressable market for medical devices and supplies; ● availability of capital; ● the availability and levels of reimbursement by third-party payors to physicians for each of our medical products; ● ability to maintain patents and other proprietary rights; ● the effectiveness of our direct sales force in the U.S.; ● our ability to simultaneously develop and enhance a new line of fiber-based scopes and expand our videoscope family; ● increased customer awareness and acceptance of our products; ● continued enhancement of our research and development capabilities; ● competition from other manufacturers of similar devices; and ● competition from other companies that offer these products. We may not be able to implement our growth strategy successfully or manage our expansion effectively. Further, as we ramp up our manufacturing operations to accommodate our planned growth, we may encounter difficulties associated with increasing production scale, including shortages of qualified personnel to operate our equipment, assemble our products or manage manufacturing operations, as well as shortages of key raw materials or components for our products. In addition, we may also experience difficulties in producing sufficient quantities of products or in achieving desired product quality. If we are unable to successfully operate and manage our manufacturing operations to meet our needs, we may not be able to provide our customers with the quantity or quality of products they require in a timely manner. Any loss of customers may result in reduced product sale revenues and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our inability to continue to hire and retain key employees could have a negative impact on our future operating results Our success depends on the services of our senior management team and other key employees in our research and development, manufacturing, operations, accounting, and sales and marketing departments. If we are unable to recruit, hire, develop and retain a talented, competitive work-force, we may not be able to meet our strategic business objectives. In May 2013, Cynthia F. Ansari resigned as our Chief Executive Officer and President and Keith J.C. Darragh resigned as our Vice President, Finance and Principal Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer. While we have appointed Howard I. Zauberman as our Interim Chief Executive Officer and have commenced a search for a Chief Executive Officer and a Vice President, Finance, we can provide no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to attract talented individuals to these important roles. Our failure to successfully recruit for these key positions could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Our medical products and manufacturing practices are subject to regulation by the FDA and by other state and foreign regulatory agencies Our medical products are subject to extensive regulation in the U.S. and in the foreign countries where we do business. There can be no assurance that the required regulatory clearances will be obtained, and those obtained may include significant limitations on the uses of the product in question. In addition, changes in existing regulations or the adoption of new regulations could make our regulatory compliance more difficult in the future. The failure to obtain required regulatory clearances or to comply with applicable regulations may result in fines, delays, suspensions of clearances, seizures, recalls of products, operating restrictions or criminal prosecutions, and could have a material adverse effect on our operations. 19 Reimbursement from third-party healthcare payors is uncertain because of factors beyond our control, and changes in third-party healthcare payors’ policies could adversely affect our sales growth In the U.S. and other foreign countries, government-funded or private insurance programs, or third-party payors, pay a significant portion of the cost of a patient’s medical expenses. There is no uniform policy of reimbursement among all these payers. We believe that reimbursement is an important factor to the success of our product sales. All U.S. and foreign third-party reimbursement programs, whether government funded or commercially insured, are developing increasingly sophisticated methods of controlling healthcare costs through prospective reimbursement and capitation programs, group purchasing, redesign of benefits, careful review of bills, and exploring more cost-effective methods of delivering healthcare. These types of programs can potentially limit the amount which healthcare providers may be willing to pay for our products. There can be no assurance that third-party reimbursement will continue to be available for procedures performed with our products. In addition, reimbursement standards and rates may change. We believe that the failure of users of our products to obtain adequate reimbursement from third-party payors has had a materially adverse effect on our sales, as there is no separate reimbursement code for our EndoSheath disposable. Competition in our industry is intense, and many of our competitors have greater resources than we do The flexible endoscopes and related products we currently sell and develop face competition primarily from medical products companies such as Olympus, Pentax, and Karl Storz. The principal competitors for our industrial products are Olympus, General Electric-Inspection Technologies, and Karl Storz Industrial. In addition, any company that is able to significantly redesign conventional flexible endoscopes to simplify the cleaning process, or significantly improve the current methods of cleaning flexible endoscopes, would provide competition for our products. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have far greater financial resources, experience, research and development personnel, and manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we have. Our competitors could utilize their greater financial resources to acquire other companies to gain enhanced name recognition and market share, as well as to develop or acquire new technologies or products that could effectively compete with our product lines. In addition, it is possible that other large healthcare companies may enter the flexible endoscope market in the future. Our ability to compete effectively depends upon our ability to distinguish our brand and our products from our competitors and their products and to obtain adequate reimbursement for procedures performed using our products. Factors affecting our competitive position include: ● ability to sell products tailored to meet the applications needs of customers and patients; ● sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities; ● product performance and design; ● quality of customer support; ● product pricing; ● product safety; ● success and timing of new product development and introductions; and ● intellectual property protection. New product development in the medical device and supply industry is costly and labor intensive and has a very low rate of successful commercialization Our success will depend in part on our ability to enhance our existing products and technologies and to develop and acquire new products. The development process for medical technology is complex, uncertain, time consuming, and costly. Product development requires the accurate assessment of technological and market trends as well as precise technological execution. We cannot assure you that (i) our product or technology development will be successfully completed; (ii) necessary regulatory clearances or approvals will be granted by the FDA or other regulatory bodies as required on a timely basis, or at all; or (iii) any product or technology we develop can be commercialized or will achieve market acceptance. 20 We may also be unable to locate suitable products or technologies to acquire or acquire such products or technologies on commercially reasonable terms. Failure to develop or acquire, obtain necessary regulatory clearances or approvals for, or successfully commercialize or market potential new products or technologies could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we do not continue to develop and commercialize new products and identify new markets for our products and technologies we may not remain competitive, and our revenues and operating results could suffer Our industry is subject to continuous technological development and product innovation. If we do not continue to innovate in developing new products and applications, our competitive position will likely deteriorate as other companies successfully design and commercialize new products and applications. Accordingly, our success depends in part on developing new and innovative applications of our technology and identifying new markets for and applications of existing products and technology. While we have reduced our research and development expenditures in an effort to focus our resources on marketing and selling our existing lines of products, if we are unable to continue to develop and commercialize new products and identify new markets for our products and technology, our products and technology could become obsolete and our revenues and operating results could be adversely affected. We have spent a significant amount of time and resources on research and development projects, in an effort to develop and validate new and innovative products. While we believe that these projects will result in the manufacturing of new products and will create additional future sales, many factors including development delays, regulatory delays, safety concerns or patent disputes could prevent or delay the introduction or marketing of new products. Unanticipated issues may arise in connection with current and future clinical studies which could delay or terminate a product’s development prior to regulatory approval. We may also experience an unfavorable impact on our operating results if we are unable to capitalize on those efforts by attaining on a timely basis the proper FDA approval or other foreign regulatory approvals or to successfully market new products, including the new family of videoscope products or other flexible endoscope products. Product quality problems could lead to reduced revenue, gross margins and net income We produce highly complex videoscope products that incorporate sophisticated technology, including hardware and software. Software typically contains bugs that can unexpectedly interfere with operations. Our quality assurance testing programs may not be adequate to detect all defects, either ones in individual products or ones that could affect numerous shipments, which might interfere with customer satisfaction, reduce sales opportunities, or reduce gross margins. In the past, we have had to replace certain components and provide remediation in response to the discovery of defects or bugs in products that we had shipped. There can be no assurance that such a remediation, depending on the product involved, would not have a material impact. An inability to cure a product defect could result in the failure of a product line, a product recall, temporary or permanent withdrawal from a product or market, damage to our reputation, inventory costs or product reengineering expenses, any of which could have a material impact on our revenue, margins, and net income. Product liability suits against us may result in expensive and time consuming litigation, payment of substantial damages, an increase in our insurance rates, and damage to our reputation, regardless of their merit The development, manufacture, and sale of our products involve a significant risk of product liability claims. We maintain product liability insurance and believe that our level of coverage is adequate, given our business, products, past sales levels, our anticipated sales levels for fiscal 2014 and our claims experience. We evaluate annually the adequacy of the coverage of all our insurance policies and adjust our coverage accordingly. There can be no assurance that product liability insurance will continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or that product liability claims in excess of our insurance coverage, if any, will not be successfully asserted against us in the future. 21 We face risks from selling our products in numerous international markets Our operating results may suffer if we are unable to manage our international sales and marketing activities effectively. We sell some of our products in foreign countries, and we therefore are subject to risks associated with having international sales, such as: ● foreign certification and regulatory requirements; ● maintenance of agreements with competent distributors; ● import and export controls; ● currency exchange fluctuation; and ● political and economic instability. Net sales to customers outside of the U.S. were approximately $5.0 million and $5.3 million for fiscal years 2013 and 2012, respectively, representing 33% and 32% of total net sales, respectively. Our operating results could be negatively impacted by economic, political or other developments in countries in which we do business Our business requires us to move products and components across international borders. Any events that interfere with, or increase the costs of, the transfer of goods across international borders could have a material adverse effect on our business. We transport some of our goods across international borders, primarily those of the U.S., Canada, Europe, Japan, and Israel. Since September 11, 2001, there has been more intense scrutiny of goods that are transported across international borders. As a result, we may face delays, and increase in costs due to such delays in delivering goods to our customers. Any events that interfere with, or increase the costs of the transfer of goods across international borders could have a material adverse effect on our business. Conditions in Israel affect our operations and may limit our ability to produce and sell our products Currently, we use subcontractors in Israel to develop and produce some of our components and parts, the most material of which is Applitec Ltd., for parts of our videoscopes and video processors. Therefore, political, economic and military conditions in Israel have a direct influence on us. Our operations could be adversely affected by current hostilities involving Israel and the Hamas, a U.S. State Department-designated foreign terrorist organization. The interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel, may adversely affect the flow of vital components from our Israeli subcontractors to us. Any hostilities related to Israel could have a material adverse effect on our business and on our share price. In addition, because some of the components of our manufacturing and research and development subcontractors are located in Israel, we could experience disruption of our manufacturing, and research and development activities due to terrorist attacks or other hostilities. If our business activities would be disrupted, our revenues would be severely impacted. Our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur, and any losses or damages we sustained could have a material adverse effect on our business. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our operating results Because some of our business includes international business transactions, costs and prices of our products or components in overseas countries are affected by foreign exchange rate changes. As a result, foreign exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Currently, we do not enter into foreign exchange forward contracts and we do not hedge anticipated foreign currency cash flows. 22 We are exposed to credit risk of some of our customers Most of our sales are on an open credit basis, with typical payment terms of 30 days in the U.S. (except for the 45 day terms with Stryker) and, because of local customs or conditions, longer in some markets outside the U.S. We monitor individual customer payment capability in granting such open credit arrangements, seek to limit such open credit to amounts we believe the customers can pay, and maintain reserves we believe are adequate to cover exposure for doubtful accounts. Beyond our open credit arrangements, we have also experienced demands for customer financing and facilitation of leasing arrangements, which we refer to leasing companies unrelated to us. Our exposure to the credit risks may increase due to the current economic slowdown. Although we have programs in place that are designed to monitor and mitigate the associated risk, there can be no assurance that such programs will be effective in reducing our credit risks. Future credit losses, if incurred, could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We maintain estimated accruals and allowances for our business terms. However, distributors tend to have more limited financial resources than other resellers and end-user customers and therefore represent potential sources of increased credit risk because they may be more likely to lack the reserve resources to meet payment obligations. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights or technology effectively Our success depends in part on our ability to maintain patent protection for our products, to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. There can be no assurance that our pending patent applications will result in patents being issued, or that our competitors will not circumvent, or challenge the validity of, any patents issued to us. There can be no assurance that measures we have taken to protect our proprietary information will prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of this information or that others will not be able to independently develop such information. In addition, if another party infringes our patent rights or other proprietary rights, the enforcement of such rights is at our option and can be a lengthy and costly process, with no guarantee of success. Moreover, there can be no assurance that claims alleging our infringement of another’s proprietary rights will not be brought against us in the future or that any such claims will not be successful. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, our ability to market or be competitive with respect to some or all of our products may be affected, which could reduce our sales and affect our ability to become profitable. There can be no assurance that our pending patent applications will result in patents being issued or that our competitors will not circumvent, or challenge the validity of, any patents issued to us. Some of the technology used in, and that may be important to, our products is not covered by any patent or patent application. We seek to maintain the confidentiality of our proprietary technology by requiring our employees to sign confidentiality agreements, and by limiting access by outside parties to such confidential information. However, there can be no assurance that these measures will prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of this information, or that others will not be able to independently develop such information. Moreover, as is the case with our patent rights, the enforcement of our trade secret rights can be lengthy and costly, with no guarantee of success. We may attempt to acquire new products or technologies, and if we are unable to successfully complete these acquisitions or to integrate acquired businesses, products, technologies or employees, we may fail to realize expected benefits or harm our existing business Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to expand our product offerings and grow our business in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. In some circumstances, we may seek to do so through the acquisition of complementary businesses, products or technologies rather than through internal development. The identification of suitable acquisition candidates and obtaining adequate financing can be difficult, time consuming and costly, and we may not be able to successfully complete identified acquisitions. Furthermore, even if we successfully complete an acquisition, we may not be able to successfully integrate newly acquired organizations, products or technologies into our operations, and the process of integration could be expensive, time consuming and may strain our resources. Consequently, we may not achieve anticipated benefits of the acquisitions, which could harm our existing business. In addition, future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or expenses, or other charges such as in-process research and development, any of which could harm our business and affect our financial results or cause a reduction in the price of our common stock. 23 Our industrial segment’s financial performance is substantially dependent on the conditions of the commercial aviation industry The results of our industrial segment, which generated approximately 24% of our net sales in fiscal 2013, are influenced by a number of external factors including general economic conditions in the U.S. and internationally, and are directly tied to the economic conditions in the commercial aviation and defense industries, which are cyclical in nature, and airlines’ financial performance can also be influenced by production and utilization of transport equipment. The challenging operating environment currently faced by commercial airlines is expected to continue. As a result, capital spending by commercial airlines and aircraft manufacturers may be influenced by a wide variety of factors, including current and predicted traffic levels, load factors, aircraft fuel pricing, labor issues, worldwide airline profits, airline consolidation, airline insolvencies, competition, the retirement of older aircraft, regulatory changes, terrorism and related safety concerns, general economic conditions, corporate profitability, and backlog levels, all of which could reduce the demand for air travel and the aftermarket sales and margins of our industrial segment. Future terrorist actions or pandemic health issues could dramatically reduce both the demand for air travel and aftermarket sales and margins of our industrial segment. A reduction in capital spending in the commercial aviation or defense industries could have a significant effect on the demand for our products, which could have an adverse effect on our financial performance or results of operations. Our officers and directors have the ability to exercise significant control over the Company Our officers and directors own an aggregate of approximately 38% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, our officers and directors exercise significant control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company or forcing management to change its operating strategies, which may be to the benefit of management but not in the interest of the stockholders. Our common stock is thinly traded, so you may be unable to sell at or near “ask” prices or at all if you need to sell your shares to raise money or otherwise desire to liquidate your shares. Our common stock is thinly traded, meaning there has been a low volume of buyers and sellers of the shares. Although we continue to undertake efforts to develop our market recognition and support for our shares of common stock in the public market, the price and volume for our common stock cannot be assured. The number of persons interested in purchasing our common stock at or near “ask” prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. This situation may be attributable to a number of factors, including the fact that we are a small company that is relatively unknown to stock analysts, stockbrokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community that generate or influence sales volume. Even if we capture the attention of these persons, they may be risk-averse and would be reluctant to follow a company such as ours or purchase or recommend the purchase of our shares until such time as our share price and volume becomes more viable. As a consequence, there may be periods of several days, weeks or months when trading activity in our shares is minimal or non-existent, as compared to a seasoned issuer with a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share price. We cannot give you any assurance that a broader or more active public trading market for our common stock will develop or be sustained, or that current trading levels will be sustained or not diminish. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 