Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company is extremely sensitive to the economy of the Pacific Northwest. The Company operates primarily in Cowlitz County, Washington, the Seattle/Bellevue metropolitan area, and the Vancouver, Washington and Portland, Oregon metropolitan area. Local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on: • the ability of the Company’s customers to repay loans; • the value of collateral securing loans; • the demand for the Company’s products and services; and • the stability of deposits that create liquidity to support lending activities. These areas have enjoyed positive employment trends recently but if the recovery is not as strong as anticipated in the region or the region experiences an economic downturn, the Company could be adversely affected because demand for our products and services could decline and our borrowers may be unable to repay 8 Table of Contents loans. Numerous factors could cause the economy to slow down or recede including higher interest rates, inflation, reduced consumer or corporate spending, natural disasters, terrorist activities and the normal cycles of the economy. The Company has a concentration of real estate collateral securing loans. Many of the Company’s loans are secured by real estate located in Washington and Oregon. If these locales experience an economic downturn that adversely affects real estate values and customers’ ability to repay, credit losses may exceed the estimates that are currently included in the allowance for credit losses, which could adversely affect financial results and shareholder value. Interest rates are subject to constant, often unpredictable changes. The Company’s earnings are largely derived from net interest income, which includes interest and fees earned on loans and investment income, less interest expense paid on deposits and other borrowings. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the control of management, including general economic conditions, and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. As interest rates change, net interest income is affected. Generally, in a rising interest rate environment, if rates paid on deposits and other sources of funds increase faster than rates received on loans and investment, the Company’s net interest income could be adversely affected. Similarly, if rates received on loans in a falling interest rate environment decrease faster than rates paid on deposits and other sources of funds, the Company net interest income could be adversely affected. With fixed rate assets (such as fixed rate loans) and liabilities (such as certificates of deposit), the effect on net interest income depends on the maturities of the assets and liabilities. The Company’s primary objective in managing interest rate risk is to moderate the adverse impact of changes in interest rates on the Company’s net interest income and capital, while structuring the Company’s asset/liability position to obtain the maximum yield-cost spread on that structure. Interest rate risk is managed through the monitoring of the Company’s gap position and sensitivity to interest rate risk by subjecting the Company’s balance sheet to hypothetical interest rate shocks. In a falling rate environment, the spread between interest yields earned and interest rates paid may narrow in the short term, depending on the relative level of fixed and variable rate assets and liabilities. In an increasing rate environment the Company’s prime rate based variable rate loans will increase immediately with changes in the prime rate, while fixed rate liabilities, particularly certificates of deposit will only reprice as the liability matures so the immediate affect can be a widening of the interest rate spread. However, as interest rates eventually stabilize, the interest rate spread may narrow because interest rates paid on the Company’s liabilities tend to reprice more slowly than the yields earned on assets. Rapid increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on our earnings A rapid increase in interest rates could have a negative effect on collateral values and borrowers’ ability to repay loans. The Company’s targeted customers are small to medium-size businesses, professionals and retail customers that may have limited capital resources to repay loans when payments increase due to significant increases in rates. Our allowance for credit losses may not be adequate. When we make loans and loan commitments to customers, we are subject to credit risk, which is the risk of losses if borrowers do not repay their loans. We reserve for credit losses by establishing an allowance for credit losses through a charge to earnings. Management’s determination of the appropriate level of its reserves requires subjective and complex judgments about the future; the process is inherently difficult and is based on numerous judgments and forecasts including economic conditions. We may have credit losses in excess of the amount reserved and we may increase the allowance because of changing economic conditions, both of which would negatively affect our earnings. 9 Table of Contents We rely on our information technology and communications systems to conduct our business. We depend on uninterrupted and successful functioning of our information technology and communications systems, many of which are provided by third parties. We rely on outsourced systems to provide customer service and complete banking transactions. Disruptions in these systems could affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers. If a third party service provider experiences operational or financial difficulties that interfere with their ability to serve us, our operations could be harmed. The financial services industry is extremely competitive. The Company competes with well-established, large banks based outside of the region, community banks, credit unions, thrift institutions, investment banking firms, insurance companies, payday loan offices and mortgage lenders for depositors and borrowers. Offices of the major financial institutions have competitive advantages over the Company in that they have high public visibility, may offer a wider variety of products and are able to maintain advertising and marketing activities on a much larger scale than the Company can economically maintain. Since single borrower lending limits imposed by law are dependent on the capital of the institution, the branches of larger institutions with substantial capital bases also have an advantage with respect to loan applications that are in excess of the Company’s legal lending limits. In competing for deposits, the Company is subject to certain limitations not applicable to non-bank financial institution competitors. Previous laws limiting the deposit instruments and lending activities of savings and loan associations have been substantially eliminated, thus increasing the competition from these institutions. In Cowlitz County, the main source of competition for deposits is the relatively large number of credit unions. Federal and State regulations applicable only to banks and bank holding companies also place banks at a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors such as finance companies, credit unions, mortgage banking companies and leasing companies. Although the Company has been able to compete effectively in its market area in the past, there can be no assurance that it will be able to continue to do so. With significant competition in the Company’s market areas, there can be no assurance that the Company can continue to attract significant loan and deposit customers. The inability to attract these customers could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and results of operations. The financial services industry is heavily regulated and additional laws and regulations are often considered at the state and federal level. Federal and state regulations are designed to protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds, consumers and the banking system, not our shareholders. Banking regulations can significantly restrict our business. Additional laws and regulations affecting banks and bank holdings companies are often proposed at the state and federal levels, which could affect our ability to compete with non-bank companies. The operations of the Company and the Bank may be adversely affected by legislative and regulatory changes as well as by changes in the policies of various regulatory authorities. The Company cannot accurately predict the nature or the extent of the effects that such changes may have in the future on its business and earnings. If we acquire companies in the future, our earnings could be reduced if we are unable to successfully integrate operations. We explore opportunities to acquire other banks. If we are able to find a suitable acquisition opportunity and negotiate and close a transaction, we experience difficulty in integrating an acquired company and consequently we may not realize expected revenue enhancements, cost savings, increases in geographic presence or other projected benefits. Integration could also disturb customer and employee relationships at the acquired company, causing deposit run-off and loss of key employees. Resources spent on integration may also detract from our ability to grow existing business. 10 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 