Item 1A Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties we describe below and the other information in this Annual Report or incorporated by reference before deciding to invest in, or retain, shares of our common stock. These are not the only risks and uncertainties that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not currently know about or that we currently believe are immaterial, or that we have not predicted, may also harm our business operations or adversely affect us. If any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition, operating results or liquidity could be materially harmed. We have a history of operating losses and we may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. We have incurred substantial operating losses since our inception (our net income in FY 07 resulted from the sale of a product line) and there can be no assurance that we will achieve a profitable level of operations in the future. We anticipate a negative cash flow during FY 08, because of additional spending for research and development, increasing our global network of independent sales representatives for the urology market, general business operations and capital expenditures. As of March 31, 2007, we had cash and cash equivalents totaling $29.0 million. Although we do not anticipate the need for additional financing in FY 08, management may seek new financing, if terms are favorable. However, there can be no assurance that such financing will be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our stock price is volatile, and you may not be able to sell your shares for a profit. The trading price of our common stock is volatile. Our common stock price could be subject to fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including: · Actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; · Conditions or trends in the medical device market; · Announcements by us or our competitors of significant customer wins or losses, gains or losses of distributors, technological innovations, new products or services; · Addition or departures of key personnel; · Sales of a large number of shares of our common stock; · Adverse litigation; · Unfavorable legislative or regulatory decisions; · Variations in interest rates; and · General market conditions. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the target of securities class action litigation. We may become the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert management attention, which could seriously harm our business. Reimbursements from third-party healthcare payers is uncertain because of factors beyond our control, and changes in third-party healthcare payers’ policies could adversely affect our sales growth. In the U.S. and other foreign countries, government-funded or private insurance programs, or third-party payers, pay a significant portion of the cost of a patient’s medical expenses. There is no uniform policy of reimbursement among all these payers. We believe that reimbursement is an important factor to the success of our product sales. 18 All U.S. and foreign third-party reimbursement programs, whether government funded or commercially insured, are developing increasingly sophisticated methods of controlling healthcare costs through prospective reimbursement and capitation programs, group purchasing, redesign of benefits, careful review of bills, and exploring more cost-effective methods of delivering healthcare. These types of programs can potentially limit the amount which healthcare providers may be willing to pay for our products. There can be no assurance that third-party reimbursement will continue to be available for procedures performed with our products. In addition, reimbursement standards and rates may change. We believe that the failure of users of our products to obtain adequate reimbursement from third-party payers has had a materially adverse effect on our sales. Our products and manufacturing practices are subject to regulation by the FDA and by other state and foreign regulatory agencies. Our products are medical devices and therefore subject to extensive regulation in the United States and in the foreign countries where we do business. In the U.S., we are subject to regulation by the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) and other regulatory agencies. The process of obtaining required regulatory clearances can be lengthy and expensive, and compliance with the FDA’s Quality Systems Regulation can be burdensome. FDA regulations govern, among other things, the following activities that we perform, and will continue, to perform in connection with our products: design and development; product testing; manufacturing; labeling and packaging; storage; shipping and receiving; pre-market clearance or approval; advertising and promotion; and sales, distribution, and servicing. There can be no assurance that the required regulatory clearances will be obtained, and those obtained may include significant limitations on the uses of the product in question. In addition, changes in existing regulations or the adoption of new regulations could make regulatory compliance by us more difficult in the future. The failure to obtain the required regulatory clearances or to comply with applicable regulations may result in fines, delays, suspensions of clearances, seizures, recalls of products, operating restrictions or criminal prosecutions, and could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Foreign government regulations vary substantially from country to country. The time required to obtain approval by a foreign country may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval, and the requirements may differ significantly. The European Union has adopted legislation, in the form of directives to be implemented in each member state, concerning the regulation of medical devices within the European Union. The directives include, among others, the Medical Device Directive that establishes standards for regulating the design, manufacture, clinical trials, labeling, and vigilance reporting for medical devices. Under the European Union Medical Device Directive, medical devices are classified into four classes, I, IIa, IIb, and III, with Class I being the lowest risk and Class III being the highest risk. Under the Medical Device Directive, a competent authority is nominated by the government of each member state to monitor and ensure compliance with the Directive. The competent authority of each member state then designates a notified body to oversee the conformity assessment procedures set forth in the Directive, whereby manufacturers demonstrate that their devices comply with the requirements of the Directive and are entitled to bear the “CE” mark. The CE Mark is an abbreviation for Conformité Européene (or European Conformity) and the CE mark, when placed on a product, indicates compliance with the requirements of the applicable directive. Medical devices properly bearing the CE mark may be commercially distributed throughout the European Union. We have received CE certification from the Underwriters Laboratories—UK for conformity with the European Union Medical Device Directive allowing us to use the CE mark on our product lines. This quality system has been developed by the International Organization for 19 Standardization to ensure that companies are aware of the standards of quality to which their products will be held worldwide. While no additional pre-market approvals in individual European Union countries are required prior to marketing of a device bearing the CE mark, practical complications with respect to marketing introduction may occur. For example, differences among countries have arisen with regard to labeling requirements. Failure to maintain the CE mark will preclude us from selling our products in the European Union. We may not be successful in maintaining certification requirements necessary for distribution of our products in the European Union. Under the Canadian Medical Devices Regulations, all medical devices are classified into four classes, Class I being the lowest risk class and Class IV being the highest risk. Class I devices include among others, devices that make only non-invasive contact with the patient. Classes II, III and IV include devices of increasingly higher risk as determined by such factors as degree of invasiveness and the potential consequences to the patient if the device fails or malfunctions. Our current products sold in Canada generally fall into Classes II and III. All Class II, III and IV medical devices must have a valid Medical Device License issued by the Therapeutic Products Directorate of Health Canada before they may be sold in Canada (Class I devices do not require such a license). We have obtained applicable Medical Device Licenses for many of our products. Failure to maintain required Medical Device Licenses in Canada or to meet other requirements of the Canadian Medical Devices Regulations (such as quality system standards and labeling requirements) for our products will preclude us from selling our products in Canada. We may not be successful in continuing to meet the medical device licensing requirements necessary for distribution of our products in Canada. We currently purchase certain critical components from several single source manufacturers under various supply agreements, and if these manufacturers are unable or unwilling to produce our product requirements in quality and quantity to our satisfaction, our business will be harmed. In the medical segment, certain critical components of our products, such as image bundles, are currently being purchased solely from a key supplier, which is a competitor of ours. These components are being purchased pursuant to a supply agreement that expires in March 2009, and is renewable automatically for two years. It is subject to termination by mutual consent or upon breach or bankruptcy. We believe that while substitute components, which are currently produced by sources other than that key supplier would be available, such substitute components may be more expensive and of a lower quality, and may require a redesign of our endoscope and additional regulatory clearances. Moreover, such substitute components may not be immediately available in quantities needed by us. Our inability to obtain a sufficient quantity of such critical components on favorable terms could materially adversely affect our business. In the industrial segment, borescopes are assembled using components and subassemblies purchased from independent vendors. While most components and subassemblies are currently available from more than one supplier, certain critical components are currently purchased only from two key suppliers. The failure of us to obtain a sufficient quantity of such components on favorable terms could materially adversely affect our business. If we do not continue to develop and commercialize new products and identify new markets for our products and technology, we may not remain competitive, and our revenues and operating results could suffer. The endoscopy industry is subject to continuous technological development and product innovation. If we do not continue to be innovative in the development of new products and applications, our competitive position will likely deteriorate as other companies successfully design and commercialize new products and applications. Accordingly, our success depends in part on developing new and innovative applications of our endoscopy technology and identifying new markets for and applications of existing products and technology. If we are unable to develop and commercialize new products and identify new markets for our 20 products and technology, our products and technology could become obsolete and our revenues and operating results could be adversely affected. Our operating results could be negatively impacted if we are unable to capitalize on research and development spending. We have spent, and continue to spend, a significant amount of time and resources on research and development projects, in order to develop and validate new and innovative products. We believe that these projects will result in the manufacturing of new products and will create additional future sales. However, factors including regulatory delays, safety concerns, or patent disputes could slow down the introduction or marketing of new products. Additionally, unanticipated issues may arise in connection with current and future clinical studies, which could delay or terminate a product’s development prior to regulatory approval. We may also experience an unfavorable impact on our operating results if we are unable to capitalize on those efforts by attaining the proper FDA approval, or other foreign regulatory approvals, or to successfully market new products, including the new family of videoscope products, or other flexible endoscope products. Competition in the medical device industry is intense, and many of our competitors have greater resources than we do. The flexible endoscopes and related products currently sold and under development by us face competition primarily from medical products companies such as Olympus Group, Pentax Imaging Company, Karl Storz GmbH & Co., Stryker Corp, and Gyrus Group PLC. In addition, any company that is able to significantly redesign conventional flexible endoscopes to simplify the cleaning process, or significantly improve the current methods of cleaning flexible endoscopes, would provide competition for our products. The principal competitors for our industrial products are Olympus, General Electric—Inspection Technology and Karl Storz GmbH & Co. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have far greater financial resources, research and development personnel, and manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we have. Our competitors could utilize their greater financial resources to acquire other companies to gain enhanced name recognition and market share, as well as to acquire new technologies or products that could effectively compete with our product lines. In addition, it is possible that other large health care companies may enter the flexible endoscope market in the future. Our ability to compete effectively depends upon our ability to distinguish our company and our products from our competitors and their products. Factors affecting our competitive position include: · product performance and design; · ability to sell products tailored to meet the applications needs of clients and patients; · quality of customer support; · product pricing; · product safety; · sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; · success and timing of new product development and introductions; and · Intellectual property protection. 21 We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights or technology effectively. Our success depends in part on our ability to maintain patent protection for our products, to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. There can be no assurance that our pending patent applications will result in patents being issued, or that our competitors will not circumvent, or challenge the validity of, any patents issued to us. There can be no assurance that measures taken by us to protect our proprietary information will prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of this information or that others will not be able to independently develop such information. In addition, in the event that another party infringes our patent rights or other proprietary rights, the enforcement of such rights is at our option and can be a lengthy and costly process, with no guarantee of success. Moreover, there can be no assurance that claims alleging infringement by us of other’s proprietary rights will not be brought against us in the future or that any such claims will not be successful. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, our ability to market or be competitive with respect to some or all of our products may be affected, which could reduce our sales and affect our ability to become profitable. Product liability suits against us may result in expensive and time consuming litigation, payment of substantial damages and an increase in our insurance rates. The development, manufacture and sale of our products involve a significant risk of product liability claims. We maintain product liability insurance with coverage limits of $15 million. We believe that this level of coverage is adequate, given our past sales levels, our anticipated sales levels for FY 08, and our claims experience. We will reevaluate the adequacy of this coverage when and if our sales substantially increase, or another need arises. No product liability claims have been brought against us to date. However, there can be no assurance that product liability insurance will continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or that product liability claims in excess of our insurance coverage, if any, will not be successfully asserted against us in the future. We sell our products in numerous international markets. Our operating results may suffer if we are unable to manage our international sales and marketing activities effectively. We sell some of our products in foreign countries, and we therefore are subject to risks associated with having international sales, such as: · foreign certification and regulatory requirements; · maintenance of agreements with competent distributors; · import and export controls; · currency exchange fluctuation; and · political and economic instability. Sales to unaffiliated customers outside of the United States were approximately $3,370, $4,122 and $3,733 for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. We may be unable to attract and retain management and other personnel we need to succeed. Our success depends on the services of our senior management team and other key employees in our research and development, manufacturing, operations and sales and marketing departments. If we are unable to recruit, hire, develop and retain a talented, competitive work force, we may not be able to meet our strategic business objectives. 22 Our operating results could be negatively impacted by economic, political or other developments in countries in which we do business Our business requires us to move some goods across international borders. Any events that interfere with, or increase the costs of, the transfer of goods across international borders could have a material adverse effect on our business. We transport some of our goods across international borders, primarily those of the United States, Canada, Europe, Japan and Israel. Since September 11, 2001, there has been more intense scrutiny of goods that are transported across international borders. As a result, we may face delays, and increase in costs due to such delays in delivering goods to our customers. Any events that interfere with, or increase the costs of the transfer of goods across international borders could have a material adverse effect on our business. Conditions in Israel affect our operations and may limit our ability to produce and sell our products. Currently we use several sub-contractors in Israel to develop and produce some of our products. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel may directly affect our operations, and we could be adversely affected by hostilities involving Israel, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel. Israel frequently has been subject to terrorist activity, with varying levels of severity, and the United States Department of State has issued an advisory regarding travel to Israel. According to the U.S. Department of State’s website, the violence in Iraq and the clashes between Palestinians and Israelis have the potential to produce demonstrations and unrest throughout the region. Also, although it has not yet occurred, the political and security situation in Israel may result in certain parties with whom we have contracts claiming that they are not obligated to perform their commitments pursuant to force majeure provisions of those contracts. In addition, since some of the components of our manufacturing and research and development sub-contractors are located in Israel, we could experience disruption of our manufacturing, and research and development activities due to terrorist attacks. If terrorist acts were to result in substantial damage to our sub-contractors facilities, our business activities would be disrupted, and our revenues may be severely impacted. Our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur, and any losses or damages sustained by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 