Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our Class A common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating an investment in our common stock. The risks described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our Class A common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this report, including our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes. Our business may be adversely affected by a number of economic and business factors. Our business may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including general economic conditions, the amount and type of technology spending that our customers undertake, and the business strategies and financial condition of our customers and the industries we serve, which could result in increases or decreases in the amount of 6 Table of Contents services that we provide to our customers and the pricing of such services. For instance, in the current economic downturn, our customers are deferring many purchasing decisions regarding our services. This could have a negative effect on our revenue and profit if a significant number of them continue to defer or elect not to proceed with new contracts. Our ability to identify and effectively respond to these factors is important to our future financial and growth position. Both of our major lines of business have distinct economic factors, business trends, and risks that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We maintain an investment portfolio of various short-term financial instruments. However, our investments, including our cash and cash equivalents, are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risk and these risks are heightened in the current economic environment. If the global credit markets continue to deteriorate, our investments may be negatively impacted, which could result in reduced liquidity or investment losses. If customers reduce spending that is currently above contractual minimums, our revenue and profits could diminish. Some of our outsourcing customers request services in excess of the minimum level of services required by the contract. These services are often in the form of project work and are discretionary to our customers. Our customers’ ability to continue discretionary project spending may depend on a number of factors including, but not limited to, their financial condition, and industry and strategic direction. Spending above contractual minimums by customers could end with limited notice and result in lower revenue and earnings. In the current economic climate, these amounts are at greater risk. If we are unable to collect our receivables, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Our business depends on our ability to successfully obtain payment from our clients of the amounts they owe us for work performed. The current economic downturn could result in financial difficulties for our clients, and as result cause clients to delay payments to us, request modifications to their payment arrangements or default on their payment obligations. We evaluate the financial condition of our clients and usually bill and collect on relatively short cycles. We maintain allowances against receivables, but actual losses on client balances could differ from those that we currently anticipate and as a result we might need to adjust our allowances. There is no guarantee that we will accurately assess the creditworthiness of our clients. In addition, timely collection of client balances depends on our ability to complete our contractual commitments and bill and collect our contracted revenues. If we are unable to meet our contractual requirements, we might experience delays in collection of and/or be unable to collect our client balances, and if this occurs, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. We may bear the risk of cost overruns relating to software development and implementation services, and, as a result, cost overruns could adversely affect our profitability. We provide services related to the development of software applications and the implementation of complex software packages for some of our customers. The effort and cost associated with the completion of these software development and implementation services are difficult to estimate and, in some cases, may significantly exceed the estimates made at the time we begin the services. We provide these software development and implementation services under time and materials and fixed-price contracts. The time and materials contracts are usually based on level-of-effort or direct costs plus a fee. Under those arrangements, we are able to bill our customer based on the actual cost of completing the services, even if the ultimate cost of the services exceeds our initial estimates. However, if the ultimate cost exceeds our initial estimate by a significant amount, we may have difficulty collecting the full amount that we are due under the contract, depending upon many factors, including the reasons for the increase in cost, our communication with the customer throughout the project, and the customer’s satisfaction with the services. As a result, we could incur losses with respect to these software development and implementation services even when they are priced on a time and materials basis. If we provide these software development or implementation services under a fixed-price contract, we bear all the risk that the ultimate cost of the project will exceed the price to be charged to the customer. 7 Table of Contents Our largest customers account for a substantial portion of our revenue and profits, and the loss of any of these customers could result in decreased revenue and profits. Our 10 largest customers accounted for 33% of our revenue for 2008. Generally, we may lose a customer as a result of a merger or acquisition, contract expiration, the selection of another provider of information technology services, entry into strategic business and marketing alliances with other business partners, business failure or bankruptcy, or our performance. Our outsourcing contracts typically require us to maintain specified performance levels with respect to the services that we deliver to our customer, with the result that if we fail to perform at the specified levels, we may be required to pay or credit the customer with amounts specified in the contract. In the event of significant failures to deliver the services at the specified levels, a number of these contracts provide that the customer has the right to terminate the agreement. In addition, some of these contracts provide the customer the right to terminate the contract at the customer’s convenience. The customer’s right to terminate for convenience typically requires the customer to pay us a fee. We may not retain long-term relationships or secure renewals of short-term relationships with our large customers in the future. Profitability of our contracts may be materially, adversely affected if we do not accurately estimate the costs of services and the timing of the completion of projects. The services that we provide, and projects we undertake, pursuant to our contracts are increasingly complex. Our success in accurately estimating the costs of services and the timing of the completion of projects and other initiatives to be provided pursuant to our contracts is critical to our ability to price our contracts for long-term profitability. While these estimates reflect our best judgment regarding preexisting costs, efficiencies that we will be able to deliver, and resources that will be required for implementation and performance, any increased or unexpected costs, delays or failures to achieve anticipated cost reductions could materially, adversely affect the profitability of these contracts. If entities we acquire fail to perform in accordance with our expectations or if their liabilities exceed our expectations, our profits could be diminished and our financial results could be adversely affected. In connection with any acquisition we make, there may be liabilities that we fail to discover or that we inadequately assess. To the extent that the acquired entity failed to fulfill any of its contractual obligations, we may be financially responsible for these failures or otherwise be adversely affected. In addition, acquired entities may not perform according to the forecasts that we used to determine the price paid for the acquisition. If the acquired entity fails to achieve these forecasts, our financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected, including the potential for impairment of goodwill. Development of our software products may cost more than we initially project, and we may encounter delays or fail to perform well in the market, which could decrease our profits. Our business has risks associated with the development of software products. There is the risk that capitalized costs of development may not be fully recovered if the market for our products or the ability of our products to capture a portion of the market differs materially from our estimates. In addition, there is the risk that the cost of product development differs materially from our estimates or a delay in product introduction may reduce the portion of the market captured by our product. Our ability to perform on contracts on which we partner with third parties may be materially and adversely affected if these third parties fail to successfully or timely deliver their commitments. Our engagements often require that our products and services incorporate or coordinate with the software or systems of other vendors and service providers. Our ability to deliver our commitments may depend on the delivery by these vendors and service providers of their commitments. If these third parties fail to deliver their commitments on time or at all, our ability to perform may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenue, profitability or cash flow. In addition, in some cases, we may be responsible for the performance of other vendors or service providers delivering software, systems or other requirements. 8 Table of Contents Our government contracts contain early termination and reimbursement provisions that may adversely affect our revenue and profits. Our Government Services line of business provides services as a contractor and subcontractor on various projects with U.S. government entities. Despite the fact that a number of government projects for which we serve as a contractor or subcontractor are planned as multi-year projects, the U.S. government normally funds these projects on an annual or more frequent basis. Generally, the government has the right to change the scope of, or terminate, these projects at its discretion or as a result of changes in laws or regulations that might affect our ability to qualify to perform the projects. The termination or a major reduction in the scope of a major government project could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Approximately 99% of the revenue from the Government Services line of business in 2008 is from contracts with the U.S. government for which we serve as a contractor or subcontractor. U.S. government entities audit our contract costs, including allocated indirect costs, or conduct inquiries and investigations of our business practices with respect to our government contracts. If the government finds that we incorrectly charged costs to a contract, the costs are not reimbursable or, if already reimbursed, the cost must be refunded to the government. If the government discovers improper or illegal activities in the course of audits or investigations, the contractor may be subject to various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with the U.S. government. These government remedies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our operating results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. While we report our operating results in U.S. dollars, a percentage of our revenues is denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Although we hedge a portion of our foreign currency exposures, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can have adverse effects on us. • As we continue to leverage our global delivery model, more of our expenses are incurred in currencies other than those in which we bill for the related services. An increase in the value of certain currencies, such as the Indian rupee, against the U.S. dollar could increase costs for delivery of services at offshore sites by increasing labor and other costs that are denominated in local currency, and there can be no assurance that our contractual provisions or our currency hedging activities would offset this impact. This could result in a decrease in the profitability of our contracts that are utilizing delivery center resources. • Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues, expenses and income, as well as assets and liabilities, into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, changes in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies will affect our revenues, operating income and the value of balance-sheet items originally denominated in other currencies. Declines in the value of other currencies against the U.S. dollar could cause our consolidated earnings stated in U.S. dollars to be lower than our consolidated earnings in local currency and could affect our reported results when compared against other periods. Conversely, increases in the value of other currencies against the U.S. dollar could cause our consolidated earnings stated in U.S. dollars to be higher than our consolidated earnings in local currency and could affect our reported results when compared against other periods. There is no guarantee that our financial results will not be adversely affected by currency exchange rate fluctuations. Our international operations expose our assets to increased risks and could result in business loss or in more expensive or less efficient operations. We have operations in many countries around the world. In addition to the risks related to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and the additional risk associated with doing business in India discussed above, risks that affect these international operations include: • complicated licensing and work permit requirements may hinder our ability to operate in some jurisdictions; • our intellectual property rights may not be well protected in some jurisdictions; 9 Table of Contents • our operations may be vulnerable to terrorist actions or harmed by government responses; • governments may restrict our ability to convert currencies or repatriate cash; and • additional expenses and risks inherent in conducting operations in geographically distant locations, with customers speaking different languages and having different cultural approaches to the conduct of business. We have a significant business presence in India, and risks associated with doing business there could decrease our revenue and profits. A significant portion of our operations is located in India. In addition to the risks regarding fluctuations in currency exchange rates and regarding international operations discussed above, the following risks associated with doing business in India could decrease our revenue and profits: • governments could enact legislation that restricts the provision of services from offshore locations; • potential wage increases and retention of associates in India; and • cost increases if the Government of India reduces or withholds tax benefits and other incentives provided to us or from the expiration of our existing tax holiday benefits in 2009 and 2010. We could lose rights to our company name, which may adversely affect our ability to market our services. We do not own the right to our company name. We have a license agreement with Ross Perot Jr., our Chairman, and the Perot Systems Family Corporation that allows us to use the name “Perot” and “Perot Systems” in our business on a royalty-free basis. Mr. Perot and the Perot Systems Family Corporation may terminate this agreement at any time and for any reason. Beginning one year following such a termination, we would not be allowed to use the names “Perot” or “Perot Systems” in our business. Mr. Perot’s or the Perot Systems Family Corporation’s termination of our license agreement could materially and adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we are unable to successfully integrate acquired entities, our profits may be less and our operations more costly or less efficient. We have completed several acquisitions in recent years, and we will continue to analyze and consider potential acquisition candidates. Acquisitions involve significant risks, including the following: • companies we acquire may have a lower quality of internal controls and reporting standards, which could cause us to incur expenses to increase the effectiveness and quality of the acquired company’s internal controls and reporting standards; • we may have difficulty integrating the systems and operations of acquired businesses, which may increase anticipated expenses relating to integrating our business with the acquired company’s business and delay or reduce full benefits that we anticipate from the acquisition; • integration of an acquired business may divert our attention from normal daily operations of the business, which may adversely affect our management, financial condition, and profits; and • we may not be able to retain key employees of the acquired business, which may delay or reduce the full benefits that we anticipate from the acquisition and increase costs anticipated to integrate and manage the acquired company. Our contracts generally contain provisions that could allow customers to terminate the contracts and sometimes contain provisions that enable the customer to require changes in pricing or require us to renegotiate pricing, decreasing our revenue and profits and potentially damaging our business reputation. Our contracts with customers generally permit termination in the event our performance is not consistent with service levels specified in those contracts. The ability of our customers to terminate contracts creates an uncertain 10 Table of Contents revenue and profit stream. If customers are not satisfied with our level of performance, our reputation in the industry may suffer, which may also adversely affect our ability to market our services to other customers. Furthermore, some of our contracts contain pricing provisions that permit a customer to request a benchmark study by a mutually acceptable third-party benchmarker. Generally, if the benchmarking study shows that our pricing has a difference outside a specified range and the difference is not due to the unique requirements of the customer, then the parties will negotiate in good faith any appropriate adjustments to the pricing. This may result in the reduction of our rates for the benchmarked services and could negatively impact our results of operations or cash flow. Our fixed-price contracts that have per-unit pricing adjustments for service volumes that exceed or fall below a specified range of volumes generally also have a limit on these adjustments, requiring renegotiation if volumes greatly exceed or fall below a specified range of volumes, which could result in reduced revenues and profits. Some contracts contain fixed- and unit-price provisions or penalties that could result in decreased profits. Some of our contracts contain pricing provisions that require the payment of a set fee or per-unit fee by the customer for our services regardless of the costs we incur in performing these services, or provide for penalties in the event we fail to achieve certain service levels. In such situations, we are exposed to the risk that we will incur significant unforeseen costs or such penalties in performing the services under the contract. If we fail to compete successfully in the highly competitive markets in which we operate, our business, financial condition, and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. We operate in extremely competitive markets, and the technology required to meet our customers’ needs changes. In both of our lines of business, we frequently compete with companies that have greater financial resources; more technical, sales, and marketing capacity; and larger customer bases than we do. Because many of the factors on which we compete are outside of our control, we cannot be sure that we will be successful in the markets in which we compete. If we fail to compete successfully, our business, financial condition, and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. Increasingly complex regulatory environments may increase our costs. Our customers are subject to complex and constantly changing regulatory environments. These regulatory environments change and in ways that cannot be predicted. For example, our financial services customers are subject to domestic and foreign privacy and electronic record handling rules and regulations, and our customers in the healthcare industry have been made subject to increasingly complex and pervasive privacy laws and regulations. These regulations may increase our potential liabilities if our services contribute to a failure by our customers to comply with the regulatory regime and may increase the cost to comply as regulatory requirements increase or change. Our quarterly financial results may vary. We expect our financial results to vary from quarter to quarter. Such variations are likely to be caused by many factors that are, to some extent, outside our control, including: • the mix, timing, and completion of customer projects; • unforeseen costs on fixed- or unit-price contracts; • implementation and transition issues with respect to new contracts; • hiring, integrating, retaining, and utilizing associates; • the timing of new contracts and changes in scope of services performed under existing contracts; • the resolution of outstanding tax issues from prior years; • the issuance of common shares and options, together with acquisition and integration costs, in connection with acquisitions; 11 Table of Contents • currency exchange rate fluctuations; and • costs to exit certain activities or terminate projects. Accordingly, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of financial results for preceding quarters are not necessarily meaningful. You should not rely on the results of one quarter as an indication of our future performance. The use of derivative financial instruments exposes us to credit and market risk. By using derivative financial instruments, we are exposed to credit and market risk. If a counterparty fails to fulfill its performance obligations under a derivative contract, our credit risk will equal the fair-value gain in a derivative financial instrument. Generally, when the fair value of a derivative financial instrument is positive, this indicates that the counterparty owes us, thus creating a repayment risk for us. When the fair value of a derivative financial instrument is negative, we owe the counterparty and, therefore, assume no repayment risk. We minimize the credit (or repayment) risk in derivative financial instruments by entering into transactions with high-quality counterparties that are reviewed periodically by our Treasurer. Changes in technology could adversely affect our competitiveness, revenue, and profit. The markets for our information technology services change rapidly because of technological innovation, new product introductions, changes in customer requirements, declining prices, and evolving industry standards, among other factors. New products and new technology often render existing information services or technology infrastructure obsolete, excessively costly, or otherwise unmarketable. As a result, our success depends on our ability to timely innovate and integrate new technologies into our service offerings. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful at adopting and integrating new technologies into our service offerings in a timely manner. Failure to recruit, train, and retain technically skilled personnel could increase costs or limit growth. We must continue to hire and train technically skilled people in order to perform services under our existing contracts and new contracts into which we will enter. The people capable of filling these positions have historically been in great demand, and recruiting and training such personnel requires substantial resources. We may be required to pay an increasing amount to hire and retain a technically skilled workforce. In addition, during periods in which demand for technically skilled resources is great, our business may experience significant turnover. These factors could create variations and uncertainties in our compensation expense and efficiencies that could directly affect our profits. If we fail to recruit, train, and retain sufficient numbers of these technically skilled people, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Alleged or actual infringement of intellectual property rights could result in substantial additional costs. Our suppliers, customers, competitors, and others may have or obtain patents and other proprietary rights that cover technology we employ. We are not, and cannot be, aware of all patents or other intellectual property rights of which our services may pose a risk of infringement. Others asserting rights against us could force us to defend ourselves or our customers against alleged infringement of intellectual property rights. We could incur substantial costs to prosecute or defend any intellectual property litigation, and we could be forced to do one or more of the following: • cease selling or using products or services that incorporate the disputed technology; • obtain from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right a license to sell or use the relevant technology; or • redesign those services or products that incorporate such technology. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, and Delaware law could deter takeover attempts. Our Board of Directors may issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and may determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions, including voting and conversion rights, of these shares of preferred stock without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be 12 Table of Contents subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and of Delaware General Corporation Law could also delay, prevent, or make more difficult a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving our company. Among other things, these provisions: • require a 662/3% vote of the stockholders to amend our certificate of incorporation or approve any merger or sale, lease, or exchange of all or substantially all of our property and assets; • require an 80% vote for stockholders to amend our bylaws; • require advance notice for stockholder proposals and director nominations to be considered at a vote of a meeting of stockholders; • permit only our Chairman, President, or a majority of our Board of Directors to call stockholder meetings, unless our Board of Directors otherwise approves; • prohibit actions by stockholders without a meeting, unless our Board of Directors otherwise approves; and • limit transactions between our company and persons who acquire significant amounts of stock without approval of our Board of Directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 