Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company is extremely sensitive to the economy of the Pacific Northwest. The Company operates primarily in Cowlitz County, Washington, the Seattle/Bellevue metropolitan area, and the Vancouver, Washington and Portland, Oregon metropolitan area. Local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on: • the ability of the Company’s customers to repay loans; • the value of collateral securing loans; • the demand for the Company’s products and services; and • the stability of deposits that create liquidity to support lending activities. A sustained economic downturn could affect these local economies, resulting in an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. 9 Table of Contents The Company has a concentration of real estate collateral securing loans. Many of the Company’s loans are secured by real estate located in Washington and Oregon. A decline in the real estate market could lead to a decrease in the value of collateral securing loans to the Company’s customers. The Company’s ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral would be diminished, and the Company would be more likely to incur losses on defaulted loans. Interest rates are subject to constant, often unpredictable changes and could have an adverse effect on our earnings. Interest and fees on loans and securities, net of interest paid on deposits and borrowings, are a large part of the Company’s net income. Interest rates are key drivers of net interest margin and are subject to many factors beyond the control of management. As interest rates change, net interest income is affected. Rapid increases in interest rates in the future could result in interest expense increasing faster than interest income because of mismatches in financial instrument maturities and rapid decreases in interest rates could result in interest income decreasing faster than interest expense, for example, when management is unable to match decreases in market interest rates, lowering earning assets yield, with reduced rates paid on deposits or borrowings. Further, substantially higher interest rates generally reduce loan demand and may result in slower loan growth, particularly in construction lending, an important factor in the Company’s revenue growth over the past two years. Decreases or increases in interest rates could have a negative effect on the spreads between the interest rates earned on assets and the rates of interest paid on liabilities, and therefore decrease net interest income. For more information on this topic see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” Our allowance for credit losses may not be adequate. The risk of nonpayment of loans is inherent in all lending activities, and nonpayment, if it occurs, may have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operation. The Company maintains a reserve for credit losses to absorb estimated probable loan losses inherent in the loan and commitment portfolios as of the balance sheet date. In determining the level of the reserve, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the loan portfolio. If the Company’s assumptions are incorrect, the reserve for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover losses, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The Company establishes its level of reserve for credit losses as a result of management’s continued evaluation of specific credit risks, loan loss experience, quality of the current loan portfolio, loan concentrations, economic conditions, regulations, political climate, new information about borrowers, additional problem loans and other factors. We may be subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities. A significant portion of the Bank’s loan portfolio is secured by real property. In the ordinary course of business, the Bank may foreclose on and take title to properties securing loans. There is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances will be found on these properties, in which case the Bank may be liable for remediation costs and related personal injury and property damage. Compliance with environmental laws may require the Bank to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit the Bank’s ability to use or sell the affected property. Environmental indemnifications obtained from borrowers and their principals or affiliates may not adequately compensate the Bank for losses related to environmental conditions. The remediation costs and financial liabilities associated with environmental conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on our information technology and communications systems to conduct our business. We depend on uninterrupted and successful functioning of our information technology and communications systems, many of which are provided by third parties. We rely on outsourced systems to provide customer service and complete banking transactions. Disruptions in these systems could affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers. If a third party service provider experiences operational or financial difficulties that interfere with their ability to serve us, our operations could be harmed. 10 Table of Contents The financial services industry is extremely competitive. The Company competes with well-established, large banks based outside of the region, community banks, credit unions, thrift institutions, investment banking firms, insurance companies, payday loan offices and mortgage lenders for depositors and borrowers. Management believes the most significant competitive factor is customer service, in addition to competitively priced loans and deposits, for structure, branch locations and the range of banking products and services offered. Offices of the major financial institutions have competitive advantages over the Company in that they have high public visibility, may offer a wider variety of products and are able to maintain advertising and marketing activities on a much larger scale than the Company can economically maintain. Since single borrower lending limits imposed by law are dependent on the capital of the institution, the branches of larger institutions with substantial capital bases also have an advantage with respect to loan applications that are in excess of the Company’s legal lending limits. In competing for deposits, the Company is subject to certain limitations not applicable to non-bank financial institution competitors. Previous laws limiting the deposit instruments and lending activities of savings and loan associations have been substantially eliminated, thus increasing the competition from these institutions. In Cowlitz County, the main source of competition for deposits is the relatively large number of credit unions. Federal and State regulations applicable only to banks and bank holding companies also place banks at a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors such as finance companies, credit unions, mortgage banking companies and leasing companies. Although the Company has been able to compete effectively in its market area in the past, there can be no assurance that it will be able to continue to do so. With significant competition in the Company’s market areas, there can be no assurance that the Company can continue to attract significant loan and deposit customers. The inability to attract these customers could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and results of operations. The financial services industry is heavily regulated and additional laws and regulations are often considered at the state and federal level. Federal and state regulations are designed to protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds, consumers and the banking system, not our shareholders. Banking regulations can significantly restrict our business. Additional laws and regulations affecting banks and bank holdings companies are often proposed at the state and federal levels, which could affect our ability to compete with non-bank companies. The operations of the Company and the Bank may be adversely affected by legislative and regulatory changes as well as by changes in the policies of various regulatory authorities. The Company cannot accurately predict the nature or the extent of the effects that such changes may have in the future on its business and earnings. Failure to comply with the laws or regulations could result in fines, penalties, sanctions and damage to the Company’s reputation which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial results. If we acquire companies in the future, our earnings could be reduced if we are unable to successfully integrate operations. We explore opportunities to acquire other banks. If we are able to find a suitable acquisition opportunity and negotiate and close a transaction, but we experience difficulty in integrating an acquired company, consequently, we may not realize expected revenue enhancements, cost savings, increases in geographic presence or other projected benefits. Integration could also disturb customer and employee relationships at the acquired company, causing deposit run-off and loss of key employees. Resources spent on integration may also detract from our ability to grow existing business. 11 Table of Contents The Company may not be able to attract or retain key banking employees. The Company strives to attract and retain key banking professionals, management and staff. Competition to attract the best professionals in the industry can be intense which will limit the Company’s ability to hire new professionals. Banking related revenues and net income could be adversely affected in the event of the unexpected loss of key personnel. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 