ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company is exposed to risk as it operates its businesses. To provide a framework to understand the operating environment of the Company, we are providing a brief explanation of the more significant risks associated with our businesses. Although we have tried to identify and discuss key risk factors, others could emerge in the future. These risk factors should be considered carefully when evaluating the Company and its businesses. Increases in energy costs and the cost and availability of raw materials used in our products could impact our cost of goods sold and our distribution expenses, which could have a material adverse impact on our operating margins. Both the costs of raw materials used in our manufactured products (copper, brass, zinc, aluminum, and PVC and ABS resins) and energy costs (natural gas and fuel) have been rising during the last several years, which has resulted in increased production and distribution costs. While we typically attempt to pass increased costs through to our customers or to modify or adapt our activities to mitigate the impact of these increases, we may not be able to do so successfully. Failure to fully pass these increases to our customers or to modify or adapt our activities to mitigate the impact could have a material adverse impact on our operating margins. Additionally, if we are for any reason unable to obtain raw materials or energy, our ability to manufacture our finished goods would be impacted which could have a material adverse impact on our operating margins. The unplanned departure of key personnel could disrupt our business. We depend on the continued efforts of our senior management. The unplanned loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified executives, could negatively impact our ability to manage our business. -12- Economic conditions in the housing and commercial construction industries as well as changes in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our businesses are sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, including, in particular, conditions in the housing and commercial construction industries. Prices for our products are affected by overall supply and demand in the market for our products and for our competitors' products. In particular, market prices of building products historically have been volatile and cyclical, and we may be unable to control the timing and amount of pricing changes for our products. Prolonged periods of weak demand or excess supply in any of our businesses could negatively affect our revenues and margins and could result in a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The markets that we serve, including, in particular, the housing and commercial construction industries, are significantly affected by movements in interest rates. Significantly higher interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our businesses are also affected by a variety of other factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to, employment levels, foreign currency rates, unforeseen inflationary pressures and consumer confidence. Since we operate in a variety of geographic areas, our businesses are subject to the economic conditions in each such area. General economic downturns or localized downturns in the regions where we have operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competitive conditions including the impact of imports and substitute products could have a material adverse effect on our margins and profitability. The markets we serve are competitive across all product lines. Some consolidation of customers has occurred and may continue, which could shift buying power to customers. In some cases, customers have moved production to low-cost countries such as China, or sourced components from there, which has reduced demand in North America for some of the products we produce. These conditions could have a material adverse impact on our ability to maintain margins and profitability. The potential threat of imports and substitute products is based upon many factors including raw material prices, distribution costs, foreign exchange rates and production costs. The end use of alternative import and/or substitute products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. -13- Our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations on cross border transactions and the translation of local currency results into U.S. dollars could have an adverse impact on our results of operations or financial position. We conduct our business through subsidiaries in several different countries, and fluctuations in currency exchange rates could have a significant impact on the reported results of our operations, which are presented in U.S. dollars. A significant and growing portion of our products are manufactured in, or acquired from suppliers located in, lower cost regions. Cross border transactions, both with external parties and intercompany relationships, result in increased exposure to foreign exchange fluctuations. The strengthening of certain currencies such as the Euro and U.S. dollar could expose our U.S. based businesses to competitive threats from lower cost producers in other countries such as China. Lastly, our sales are translated into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes. The strengthening of the U.S. dollar could result in unfavorable translation effects when the results of foreign operations are translated into U.S. dollars. Accordingly, significant changes in exchange rates, particularly the Euro, Pound Sterling, Mexican Peso and the Chinese Renminbi, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations or financial position. We are subject to claims, litigation and regulatory proceedings that could have a material adverse effect on us. We are, from to time, involved in various claims, litigation matters and regulatory proceedings. These matters may include, among other things, contract disputes, personal injury claims, environmental claims or proceedings, other tort claims, employment and tax matters and other litigation including class actions that arise in the ordinary course of our business. Although we intend to defend these matters vigorously, we cannot predict with certainty the outcome or effect of any claim or other litigation matter, and there can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome of any litigation or regulatory proceeding. Litigation and regulatory proceedings may have a material adverse effect on us because of potential adverse outcomes, defense costs, the diversion of our management's resources, availability of insurance coverage and other factors. A strike or other work stoppage, or our inability to renew collective bargaining agreements on favorable terms, could impact our cost structure and our ability to operate our facilities and produce our products, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. As of December 30, 2006, approximately 29% of our 4,700 employees were covered by collective bargaining or similar agreements. If we are unable to negotiate acceptable new agreements with the unions representing our employees upon expiration of existing contracts, we could experience strikes or other work stoppages. Strikes or other work stoppages could cause a significant disruption of operations at our facilities which could have an adverse impact on us. New or renewal agreements with unions representing our employees could call for higher wages or benefits paid to union members, which would increase our operating costs and could adversely affect our profitability. Higher costs and/or limitations on our ability to operate our facilities and produce our products resulting from increased labor costs, strikes or other work stoppages could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. -14- We are subject to environmental laws and regulations and future compliance may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. The nature of our operations exposes us to the risk of liabilities and claims with respect to environmental matters. While we have established accruals intended to cover the cost of environmental remediation at contaminated sites, the actual cost is difficult to determine and may exceed our estimated reserves. Further, changes to, or more rigorous enforcement or stringent interpretation of environmental laws could require significant incremental costs to maintain compliance. In addition, future claims may be asserted against us for, among other things, past acts or omissions at locations operated by predecessor entities, or alleging damage or injury or seeking other relief in connection with environmental matters associated with our operations. Future liabilities, claims and compliance costs may have a material adverse effect on us because of potential adverse outcomes, defense costs, the diversion of our management's resources, availability of insurance coverage and other factors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. -15- 