ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Each of the following risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our operations include our primary operating subsidiary, ABF. For 2007, ABF represented 96.4% of the Company’s consolidated revenues. The transportation industry is affected by business risks that are largely out of our control, any of which could significantly reduce our operating margins and income. The factors that could have a negative impact on our performance in the future include general economic factors; loss of key employees; antiterrorism measures; an increasingly competitive freight rate environment; volatile fuel prices and the inability to collect fuel surcharges or obtain sufficient fuel supplies; loss of third-party rail service providers; increasing capital requirements; increases in new equipment costs and decreases in the amount we are able to obtain for sales of our used equipment; emissions-control regulations; decreases in the availability of new equipment; increases in the frequency and/or the severity of workers’ compensation and/or third-party casualty claims; increases in workers’ compensation and/or third-party casualty insurance premiums; violation of federal regulations and increasing costs for compliance with regulations; a workforce stoppage by our employees covered under our collective bargaining agreement; difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers and/or dockworkers; increases in the required contributions under our collective bargaining agreements with the IBT for wage contributions and/or benefits contributions to multiemployer plans; a failure of our information systems; a violation of an environmental law or regulation; and/or weather or seasonal fluctuations. We are subject to general economic factors that are largely beyond our control, any of which could significantly reduce our operating margins and income. Our performance is affected by recessionary economic cycles and downturns in customers’ business cycles and changes in their business practices. Economic conditions could adversely affect our customers’ business levels, the amount of transportation services they need and their ability to pay for our services. Customers encountering adverse economic conditions represent a greater potential for uncollectible accounts receivable, and, as a result, we may be required to increase our allowances for uncollectible accounts receivable. In addition, customers could reduce the number of carriers they use by selecting so-called “core carriers” as approved transportation service providers, and in some instances, we may not be selected. It is not possible to predict the effects of armed conflicts or terrorist attacks and subsequent events on the economy or on consumer confidence in the United States, or the impact, if any, on our future results of operations or financial condition. Our management team is an important part of our business and loss of key employees could impair our success. We benefit from the leadership and experience of our senior management team and depend on their continued services to successfully implement our business strategy. The unexpected loss of key employees could have an adverse effect on our operations and profitability. We continue to develop and retain a core group of officers and managers although future retention cannot be assured. 10 Table of Contents Our business could be harmed by antiterrorism measures. Since the terrorist attacks on the United States, federal, state and municipal authorities have implemented and are implementing various security measures, including checkpoints and travel restrictions on large trucks. Although many companies will be adversely affected by any slowdown in the availability of freight transportation, the negative impact could affect our business disproportionately. For example, we offer specialized services that guarantee on-time delivery. If the new security measures disrupt the timing of deliveries, we could fail to meet the needs of our customers or could incur increased costs in order to do so. We operate in a highly competitive industry and our business could suffer if our operating subsidiaries were unable to adequately address downward pricing pressures and other factors that could adversely affect their ability to compete with other companies. Numerous competitive factors could impair our ability to maintain our current profitability. These factors include: • We compete with many other LTL carriers of varying sizes, including both union and nonunion LTL carriers and, to a lesser extent, with truckload carriers and railroads. • Our nonunion competitors have a lower fringe benefit cost structure for their freight-handling and driving personnel than union carriers. However, we believe that we have lower turnover rates and higher labor efficiency rates than some of our competitors. Our competitors could reduce their freight rates to gain market share, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy. This could limit our ability to maintain or increase freight rates, maintain our operating margins or grow tonnage levels. • The trend toward consolidation in the transportation industry could continue to create larger LTL carriers with greater financial resources and other competitive advantages relating to their size. We could experience some difficulty if the remaining LTL carriers, in fact, have a competitive advantage because of their size. Our new service and growth initiatives may not be accepted by our customers. Our continuing development of more second-day service lanes, overnight lanes and same-day service will require ongoing investment in personnel and infrastructure. In addition, the level of revenues expected to be generated from these service initiatives may be impacted by actions of our competitors and by general economic conditions. Depending on the timing and level of revenues generated from these service initiatives, our results of operations and cash flows may be negatively impacted. We depend heavily on the availability of fuel for our trucks. Fuel shortages, increases in fuel costs and the inability to collect fuel surcharges or obtain sufficient fuel supplies could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The transportation industry is dependent upon the availability of adequate fuel supplies. We have not experienced a lack of available fuel but could be adversely impacted if a fuel shortage were to develop. Fuel prices have fluctuated significantly in recent years. ABF charges a fuel surcharge based on changes in diesel fuel prices compared to a national index. The ABF fuel surcharge rate in effect is available on the ABF Web site at abf.com. Although revenues from fuel surcharges generally more than offset increases in direct diesel fuel costs; other operating costs have been, and may continue to be, impacted by fluctuating fuel prices. The total impact of higher energy prices on other nonfuel-related expenses is difficult to ascertain. ABF cannot predict, with reasonable certainty, future fuel price fluctuations, the impact of higher energy prices on other cost elements, recoverability of higher fuel costs through fuel surcharges, the effect of fuel surcharges on ABF’s overall rate structure or the total price that ABF will receive from its customers. During periods of changing diesel fuel prices, the fuel 11 Table of Contents surcharge and associated direct diesel fuel costs also vary by different degrees. Depending upon the rates of these changes and the impact on costs in other fuel- and energy-related areas, operating margins could be impacted. During 2007, the fuel surcharge mechanism continued to have strong market acceptance among ABF customers. Whether fuel prices fluctuate or remain constant, ABF’s operating income may be adversely affected if competitive pressures limit its ability to recover fuel surcharges. ABF’s ability to recover future fuel surcharges may be affected as a result. However, lower fuel surcharge levels may over time improve ABF’s ability to increase other elements of margin although there can be no assurances in this regard. While the fuel surcharge is one of several components in ABF’s overall rate structure, the actual rate paid by customers is governed by market forces based on value provided to the customer. We do not have any long-term fuel purchase contracts and have not entered into any hedging arrangements to protect against fuel price increases. Significant changes in diesel fuel prices and the associated fuel surcharge may increase volatility in our reported revenues. Volatile fuel prices will continue to impact our results of operations. We depend on transportation provided by rail services and a disruption of this service could adversely affect our operations. In 2007, ABF’s rail utilization was 12.7% of total miles. If a disruption in transportation services from the rail service providers occurred, we could be faced with business interruptions that could cause us to fail to meet the needs of our customers. If these situations occurred, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely impacted. We have significant ongoing capital requirements that could affect profitability if we were unable to generate sufficient cash from operations. We have significant ongoing capital requirements. If we were not able to generate sufficient cash from operations in the future, our growth could be limited, we could have to utilize our existing financing arrangements to a greater extent or enter into additional leasing arrangements, or our revenue equipment may have to be held for longer periods, which would result in increased maintenance costs. If these situations occurred, there could be an adverse effect on our profitability. Increased prices for new revenue equipment and decreases in the value of used revenue equipment could adversely affect our earnings and cash flows. Manufacturers have raised the prices of new equipment significantly, in part, to offset their costs of compliance with new EPA tractor engine design requirements intended to reduce emissions. Following requirements that were put into place in 2002, new EPA engine design requirements became effective on January 1, 2007. More restrictive EPA emission-control design requirements will take effect in 2010. Further equipment price increases may result from these requirements. If new equipment prices increase more than anticipated, we could incur higher depreciation and rental expenses than anticipated. If we were unable to offset any such increases in expenses with freight rate increases, our results of operations could be adversely affected. If the market value of revenue equipment being used in our operations were to decrease, we could incur impairment losses and our cash flows could be adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents The engines used in our newer tractors are subject to new emissions-control regulations, which could substantially increase operating expenses. Tractor engines that comply with the EPA emission-control design requirements that took effect on January 1, 2007 are generally less fuel-efficient and have increased maintenance costs compared to engines in tractors manufactured before these requirements became effective. In addition, compliance with the more stringent EPA requirements that are scheduled to be effective in 2010 could result in further declines in fuel efficiency and increases in maintenance costs. If we are unable to offset resulting increases in fuel expenses or maintenance costs with higher freight rates, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Decreases in the availability of new tractors and trailers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. From time to time, some tractor and trailer vendors have reduced their manufacturing output due, for example, to lower demand for their products in economic downturns or a shortage of component parts. As conditions changed, some of those vendors have had difficulty fulfilling increased demand for new equipment. Also, vendors must meet the EPA emission-control design requirements that took effect on January 1, 2007 and those that are scheduled to be effective in 2010. Some carriers may seek to purchase large numbers of tractors with pre-2010 engines, which could lead to tractor shortages. An inability to continue to obtain an adequate supply of new tractors or trailers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We operate in a highly regulated industry and costs of compliance with, or liability for violations of, existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Various federal and state agencies exercise broad regulatory powers over the transportation business, generally governing such activities as authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, safety, insurance requirements and financial reporting. We could also become subject to new or more restrictive regulations, such as regulations relating to fuel emissions, drivers’ hours of service or ergonomics. Compliance with such regulations could substantially reduce equipment productivity, and the costs of compliance could increase our operating expenses. In April 2003, the U.S. Department of Transportation (“DOT”) announced rules regulating driving time for commercial truck drivers. The rules, which were implemented in January 2004, have had a minimal impact upon our operations. However, future changes in these rules could materially and adversely affect our operating efficiency and increase costs. Our drivers and dockworkers also must comply with the safety and fitness regulations promulgated by the DOT, including those relating to drug and alcohol testing and hours of service. The Transportation Security Administration of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security has adopted regulations that will require all drivers who carry hazardous materials to undergo background checks by the Federal Bureau of Investigation when they obtain or renew their licenses. Failures to comply with DOT safety regulations or downgrades in our safety rating could have a material adverse impact on our operations or financial condition. A downgrade in our safety rating could cause us to lose the ability to self-insure. The loss of our ability to self-insure for any significant period of time could materially increase insurance costs. In addition, we could experience difficulty in obtaining adequate levels of coverage in that event. Increases in license and registration fees could also have an adverse effect on our operating results. 13 Table of Contents Ongoing claims expenses could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our self-insurance retention levels are currently $1.0 million for each workers’ compensation loss, $1.0 million for each cargo loss and generally $1.0 million for each third-party casualty loss. For medical benefits, we currently self-insure up to $175,000 per person, per claim year. We maintain insurance for liabilities above the amounts of self-insurance to certain limits. If the frequency and/or severity of claims increase, our operating results could be adversely affected. The timing of the incurrence of these costs could significantly and adversely impact our operating results compared to prior periods. In addition, if we were to lose our ability to self-insure for any significant period of time, insurance costs could materially increase and we could experience difficulty in obtaining adequate levels of insurance coverage in that event. Increased insurance premium costs could have an adverse effect on our operating results. In the last several years, insurance carriers have increased premiums for many companies, including transportation companies. Although our recent insurance renewals did not result in significant changes in premiums, we could experience additional increases in our insurance premiums in the future. If our insurance or claims expenses increase and we were unable to offset the increase with higher freight rates, our earnings could be adversely affected. We depend on our employees to support our operating business and future growth opportunities. If our relationship with our employees were to deteriorate, we could be faced with labor disruptions or stoppages, which could have a material adverse affect on our business and reduce our operating results and place us at a disadvantage relative to nonunion competitors. Most of ABF’s union employees are covered under a five-year collective bargaining agreement with the IBT which expires on March 31, 2008. During February 2008, the Company announced that the IBT has ratified a new five-year collective bargaining agreement. The new agreement, which will be effective April 1, 2008, provides for compounded annual contractual wage and benefit increases of 3.8%, subject to wage rate cost-of-living adjustments. We compete against both union and nonunion LTL carriers. Union companies typically have somewhat higher wage costs and significantly higher fringe benefit costs than nonunion companies. Union companies typically experience lower employee turnover and higher productivity compared to some nonunion companies. Due to our national reputation, working conditions, and wages and benefits, we have not historically experienced any significant long-term difficulty in attracting or retaining qualified drivers, although short-term difficulties have been encountered in certain situations, such as periods of significant increases in tonnage levels. Difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers or increases in compensation or fringe benefit costs could affect our profitability and our ability to grow. If we were unable to continue to attract and retain qualified drivers, we could incur higher driver recruiting expenses or a loss of business. We could be obligated to make additional contributions to multiemployer pension plans. Under the provisions of the Taft-Hartley Act, retirement and health care benefits for ABF’s contractual employees are provided by a number of multiemployer plans. The trust funds for these plans are administered by trustees, an equal number of whom generally are appointed by the IBT and certain management carrier organizations or other appointing authorities for employer trustees as set forth in the fund’s trust agreements. ABF is not directly involved in the administration of the trust funds. ABF contributes to these plans monthly based on the time worked by its contractual employees, as specified in the collective bargaining agreement and other supporting supplemental agreements. No amounts are required to be paid beyond ABF’s monthly contractual obligations based on the time worked by its employees, except as discussed below. Approximately 50% of our contributions are made to the Central States Southeast and Southwest Area Pension Fund (“Central States Pension Fund”). We recognize as expense the contractually required contribution for the period and recognize as a liability any contributions due and unpaid. We intend to meet our obligations to the multiemployer pension plans under our collective bargaining agreement with the IBT. 14 Table of Contents In the event of the termination of a multiemployer pension plan or if we withdraw from a multiemployer pension plan, we would have liabilities for our share of the unfunded vested liabilities of such plan. ABF has no current intention of withdrawing from any multiemployer pension plan. Based on December 31, 2006, multiemployer pension plan information which is the most recently available information, the estimate of ABF’s contingent withdrawal liabilities for these plans is approximately $800 million to $850 million, on a pre-tax basis. Though the best information available to us was used in computing this estimate, it is calculated with numerous assumptions, changes periodically and has not been verified by us or our independent pension counsel. In 2006, the Pension Protection Act (the “PPA”) became law and together with related regulations established certain minimum funding requirements for multiemployer pension plans. The PPA mandates that multiemployer plans that are below certain funding levels or that have projected funding deficiencies adopt a funding improvement plan or a rehabilitation program to improve the funding levels over a defined period of time. The Act also accelerates the timing of annual funding notices and requires additional disclosures from certain multiemployer plans. Under the PPA, the funding status of such plans is determined by a number of factors including: investment returns, changes in member benefits, the number of participating employees, the number of employers who contribute and their related contractual contributions and the number of employees or retirees participating in the plan who no longer have a contributing employer. If any multiemployer pension plan fails to: (i) meet minimum funding requirements; (ii) meet a required funding improvement or rehabilitation plan required by the PPA for underfunded plans; (iii) obtain from the IRS certain changes to or waivers of the requirements used by a particular plan to calculate funding levels; or, (iv) reduce pension benefits to a level where the requirements are met, the PPA could impose additional contribution requirements on ABF in the form of a surcharge of an additional five to ten percent. However, under our new five-year collective bargaining agreement with the IBT, which will be effective April 1, 2008, any surcharges required by the Act will be included in the contractual contribution rate and should not increase ABF’s overall contribution obligation. In July 2007, the Teamsters National Freight Industry Negotiating Committee for the Central States Pension Fund Supplemental Agreement reallocated $0.40 per hour of a previously negotiated $0.70 per hour rate increase for health and welfare to the Central States Pension Fund. This reallocation will have a positive effect on the funded status of the Central States Pension Fund. In addition, as a result of a withdrawal by a large contributing employer, the Central States Pension Fund received $6.1 billion in cash in December 2007, which should have a positive effect on its near-term funded status. Despite these events, based on currently available information, we believe that the Central States Pension Fund and a number of other plans in which ABF participates will have to adopt either a funding improvement plan or a rehabilitation program depending on their current funding status as required by the PPA. However, the funding levels of these multiemployer plans in 2008 could vary from the December 31, 2006 funded status. As previously mentioned, the highly competitive industry in which we operate could impact the viability of contributing employers. Any one or combination of these items, which are outside our control, has the potential to affect the funding status of these plans, potential withdrawal liabilities and our future contribution requirements. Our information technology systems are subject to certain risks that are beyond our control. We depend on the proper functioning and availability of our information systems in operating our business. These systems include our communications and data processing systems. Our information systems are protected through physical and software safeguards. However, they are still vulnerable to fire, storm, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins and similar events. We have a catastrophic disaster recovery plan and alternate processing capability, which is designed so that critical data processes should be fully operational within 48 hours. We have business interruption insurance, including, in certain circumstances, insurance against terrorist attacks under the federal Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002, which would offset 15 Table of Contents losses up to certain coverage limits in the event of a catastrophe. However, a significant system failure, security breach, disruption by a virus or other damage could still interrupt or delay our operations, damage our reputation and cause a loss of customers. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the handling of hazardous materials and similar matters. We operate in industrial areas where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination could occur. We also store fuel in underground tanks at some facilities. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or leakage, environmental damage and hazardous waste disposal, among others. If we were involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances, or if we were found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. If we should fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. Our results of operations can be impacted by seasonal fluctuations or adverse weather conditions. We can be impacted by seasonal fluctuations which affect tonnage and shipment levels. Freight shipments, operating costs and earnings can also be affected adversely by inclement weather conditions. We are also subject to risks and uncertainties that affect many other businesses, including: Any liability resulting from and the cost of defending against class-action litigation, such as alleged violations of anti-trust laws, wage-and-hour and discrimination claims, and any other legal proceedings; Widespread outbreak of an illness, such as avian influenza (bird flu), severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) or any other communicable disease, or any other public health crisis; and Operational or market disruptions arising from natural calamities, such as hurricanes, and from illegal acts including terrorist attacks. Our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by an unfavorable outcome resulting from these risks and uncertainties. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 16 Table of Contents 