Item 1A. Risk Factors These are general risk factors affecting BankUnited. They are further described under Item 1. Business and in Management’s Discussion and Analysis. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business operations. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In such cases, you may lose all or part of your investment. 11 Table of Contents If the interest payments on our deposits and borrowings increase relative to the interest we earn on our loans and investments, they may decrease our net interest income. Our profitability depends to a large extent on the Bank’s net interest income, which is the difference between income on interest-earning assets such as mortgage loans and investment securities, and expense on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. We are affected by changes in general interest rate levels and by other economic factors beyond our control. Our net interest income may be reduced if: (i) more interest-earning assets than interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature during a time when interest rates are declining or (ii) more interest-bearing liabilities than interest-earning assets reprice or mature during a time when interest rates are rising. Changes in the difference between short and long-term interest rates may also harm our business. For example, short-term deposits may be used to fund longer-term loans. When differences between short-term and long-term interest rates shrink or disappear, the spread between rates paid on deposits and received on loans could narrow significantly, decreasing our net interest income. If market interest rates rise rapidly, interest rate adjustment caps may limit increases in the interest rates on adjustable rate loans (ARM), thus reducing our net interest income because we will need to pay the higher rates on our deposits and borrowings while being limited on the repricing of these loans due to the interest rate caps. Certain ARM loans reprice based on lagging interest rate indices. The effect of this lag may also negatively affect our net interest income when general interest rates continue to rise periodically. An increase in loan prepayments and on prepayment of loans underlying mortgage backed securities may adversely affect our profitability. Prepayment rates are affected by consumer behavior, conditions in the housing and financial markets, general economic conditions and the relative interest rates on fixed-rate and adjustable-rate mortgage loans. Changes in prepayment rates are therefore difficult for us to predict. We recognize our deferred loan origination costs and premiums paid in originating these loans by adjusting our interest income over the contractual life of the individual loans. As prepayments occur, the rate at which net deferred loan origination costs and premiums are expensed accelerates. The effect of the acceleration of deferred costs and premium amortization may be mitigated by prepayment penalties paid by the borrower when the loan is paid in full within a certain period of time which varies between loans. If prepayment occurs after the period of time when the loan is subject to a prepayment penalty, the effect of the acceleration of premium and deferred cost amortization is no longer mitigated. We recognize premiums we pay on mortgage-backed security as an adjustment from interest income over the life of the security based on the rate of repayment of the securities. Acceleration of prepayments on the loans underlying a mortgage-backed security shortens the life of the security, increases the rate at which premiums are expensed and further reduces interest income. We may not be able to reinvest loan and security prepayments at rates comparable to the prepaid instrument particularly in period of declining interest rates. Changes in interest rates could have additional adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in interest rates could have significant adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations, including, without limitation, by decreasing the value of our mortgage servicing rights or our derivative instruments. The initial and ongoing valuation and amortization of mortgage servicing rights is significantly impacted by interest rates, prepayment experience and the credit performance of the underlying We are unable to predict changes in market interest rates which are affected by many factors beyond our control including inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, domestic and international events and changes in the United States and other financial markets. Our net interest income is affected not only by the level and direction of interest rates, but also by the shape of the yield curve and relationships between interest sensitive instruments and key driver rates, as well as balance sheet growth, client loan and deposit preferences and the timing of changes in these variables. In an increasing rate environment, our interest costs on liabilities may increase more rapidly than our income on interest earning assets. This could result in a deterioration of our net interest margin. Changes in interest rates could also adversely affect our financial condition by reducing the value of our derivative instruments. We use derivative instruments as part of our interest rate risk management activities to reduce risk associated with our borrowing activities. Our use of derivative instruments, however, exposes us to credit risk and market risk. Our credit risk is heightened when the fair value of a derivative contract is positive, which generally means that a counterparty owes us. We try to minimize credit risk in derivative instruments by entering into transactions with high-quality counterparties, but there can be no assurance that our financial evaluation of a counterparty will be accurate or that their financial status will not change. Market risk is the adverse effect on the value of a financial instrument from a change in interest rates or implied volatility of rates. We manage market risk by establishing 12 Table of Contents and monitoring limits on the types and degree of risk undertaken. Change in interest rates may have either a positive or negative effect on the value of the derivative instrument depending on the nature of the derivative instrument. We may be impacted by our concentration in ARM loans indexed to the MTA and with optional payment characteristics, generally referred to as option ARM. The majority of loans we currently originate and approximately half of our loan portfolio has optional payment characteristics. These loans provide the consumer with several payment options each month and may result in monthly payments being lower than the amount of interest due on the loan. Any unpaid monthly interest is added to the loan balance and this result in negative amortization and an increasing loan balance. These loans provide the consumer with the ability to reduce his initial loan payment and limit the amount of annual increase in the required monthly payment. If a loan negatively amortizes in the initial years the consumer must make the payments up in the later years of the loan. This presents a potential repayment risk if the consumer is unable to meet the higher payment or repay the loan through refinancing or sale of the underlying property. We may periodically sell these loans in the secondary market. A prolonged period of secondary market illiquidity could have an adverse effect on our earnings. There are no current regulatory limitations on this type of loan products. Any regulatory limitation may affect the mortgage and residential real estate markets and limit our ability to grow our portfolio at the current pace. We make loans to non-resident aliens (NRAs) for the acquisition of secondary residences in the United States, primarily in the Florida market. Changes in foreign exchange rates and political and economic conditions in the borrower’s country of residence may affect his ability to make regular loan payments. We make loans for the purchase of secondary residences to NRAs. These loans are secured by property located in the United States, primarily in Florida and generally carry a lower loan to value than loans to domestic residents. These loans represent 18% of our loan portfolio as of September 30, 2005. The value of the underlying property provides a source of liquidation in the United Sates but the consumer’s ability to make his monthly payments may be affected by factors such as the foreign exchange rates, capital outflow limitations and other political and economic risks associated with the country of residence. BankUnited limits its risk through its underwriting criteria on these loans. Changes in the United States laws and regulations affecting residents from those countries, could also adversely affect us if they result in a significant loss of deposits, increased loan defaults or a decreased market for our products. An inadequate allowance for loan losses would reduce our earnings. We are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans will not be sufficient to assure full repayment. Credit losses are inherent in the lending business and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and our ability to meet our obligations under the notes. Volatility and deterioration in domestic and foreign economies may also increase our risk for credit losses. Our portfolio composition, with loans primarily secured by real estate, reduces loss exposure. We evaluate the collectibility of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for loan losses that we believe is adequate based upon such factors as: • the risk characteristics of various classifications of loans; • previous loan loss experience; • specific loans that have loss potential; • delinquency trends; • estimated fair market value of the collateral; • current economic conditions; • the views of our regulators; and • geographic and industry loan concentrations. If our evaluation is incorrect and borrower defaults cause losses exceeding our allowance for loan losses, our earnings could be significantly and adversely affected. We cannot assure you that our allowance will be adequate to cover loan losses inherent in our portfolio. We may experience losses in our loan portfolios or perceive adverse trends that require us to significantly increase our allowance for loan losses in the future, which would also reduce our earnings. Our exposure to credit risk is increased by our commercial real estate, commercial business and construction lending. Commercial real estate, commercial business and construction lending generally involve higher credit risk than single-family residential lending. Such loans involve larger loan balances to a single borrower or groups of related borrowers. Commercial real estate loans may be affected to a greater extent than residential loans by adverse conditions in real estate markets or 13 Table of Contents the economy because commercial real estate borrowers’ ability to repay their loans depends on successful development of their properties, as well as the factors affecting residential real estate borrowers. These loans also involve greater risk because they generally are not fully amortizing over the loan period, but have a balloon payment due at maturity. A borrower’s ability to make a balloon payment typically will depend on being able to either refinance the loan or timely sell the underlying property. Risk of loss on a construction loan depends largely upon whether our initial estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction equals or exceeds the cost of the property construction (including interest) and the availability of permanent take-out financing. During the construction phase, a number of factors can result in delays and cost overruns. If our estimate of value is inaccurate or if actual construction costs exceed estimates, the value of the property securing our loan may be insufficient to ensure full repayment when completed through a permanent loan or by seizure of collateral. Commercial business loans are typically based on the borrowers’ ability to repay the loans from the cash flow of their businesses. Such loans may involve greater risk because the availability of funds to repay each loan depends substantially on the success of the business itself. In addition, the collateral securing the loans may depreciate over time, be difficult to appraise and liquidate and fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. Commercial real estate, commercial business and construction loans are more susceptible to a risk of loss during a downturn in the business cycle. The underwriting, review and monitoring performed by our officers and directors cannot eliminate all of the risks related to these loans. Negative events in certain geographic areas could adversely affect us. Negative conditions in the real estate markets where collateral for our mortgage loans is located could adversely affect our borrower’s ability to repay and the value of the collateral. Real estate values are affected by various factors, including changes in general or regional economic conditions, governmental rules or policies and natural disasters such as hurricanes. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect our profitability. The banking and financial services industry is very competitive. Legal and regulatory developments have made it easier for new and sometimes unregulated competitors to compete with us. Consolidation among financial service providers has resulted in fewer very large national and regional banking and financial institutions holding a large accumulation of assets. These institutions generally have significantly greater resources, a wider geographic presence or greater accessibility. Our competitors sometimes are also able to offer more services, more favorable pricing or greater customer convenience than we do. In addition, our competition has grown from new banks and other financial services providers that target our existing or potential customers. As consolidation continues among large banks, we expect additional smaller institutions to try to exploit our market. Technological developments have allowed competitors including some non-depository institutions, to compete more effectively in local markets and have expanded the range of financial products, services and capital available to our target customers. If we are unable to implement, maintain and use such technologies effectively, we may not be able to offer products or achieve cost-efficiencies necessary to compete in our industry. In addition, some of these competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and lower cost structures. Failure to pay interest on our debt may adversely impact us. Deferral of interest payments where allowed on our trust preferred securities, junior subordinated notes and senior notes may affect our ability to raise additional debt and pay dividends on our common stock. Failure to pay interest on other borrowings would adversely affect our ability to continue operations. We rely heavily on the proper functioning of our technology. We rely on our computer systems, and outside servicers providing technology, for much of our business, including recording our assets and liabilities. If our computer systems or outside technology sources fail, are not reliable or there is a breach of security, our ability to maintain accurate financial records may be impaired, which could materially affect our operations and financial condition. We are dependent upon the services of our management team. We are dependent upon the ability and experience of a number of our key management personnel who have substantial experience with our operations, the financial services industry and the markets in which we offer our services. It is possible that the loss of the services of one or more of our senior executives or key managers would have an adverse effect on our operations. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, manage and retain other qualified middle management personnel as we grow. We cannot assure you that we will continue to attract or retain such personnel. Terrorist activities could cause reductions in investor confidence and substantial volatility in real estate and securities markets. It is impossible to predict the extent to which terrorist activities may occur in the United States or other regions, or their effect on a 14 Table of Contents particular security issue. It is also uncertain what effects any past or future terrorist activities and/or any consequent actions on the part of the United States government and others will have on the United States and world financial markets, local, regional and national economics, and real estate markets across the United States. Among other things, reduced investor confidence could result in substantial volatility in securities markets, a decline in general economic conditions and real estate related investments and an increase in loan defaults. Such unexpected losses and events could materially affect our results of operations. Tourism and the travel industry are important factors to the general economy of our target market, which could be adversely affected by terrorism. We may need additional capital resources in the future and these capital resources may not be available when needed or at all. We may need to incur additional debt or equity financing in the future to make strategic acquisitions or investments or for future growth. We cannot assure you that such financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. We are subject to extensive regulation that could restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business and limit our ability to receive dividends from the Bank. The Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS) as its primary federal regulator, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), which insures its deposits. As a member of the FHLB, the Bank must also comply with applicable regulations of the Federal Housing Finance Board and the FHLB. Regulation by these agencies is intended primarily for the protection of our depositors and the deposit insurance fund and not for the benefit of our stockholders. The Bank’s activities are also regulated under consumer protection laws applicable to our lending, deposit and other activities. A sufficient claim against us under these laws could have a material adverse effect on our results. Changes in the regulation of financial services companies and housing government-sponsored enterprises could adversely affect our business. Proposals for further regulation of the financial services industry are continually being introduced in Congress. The agencies regulating the financial services industry also periodically adopt changes to their regulations. Proposals that are now receiving a great deal of attention include regulation of government sponsored-entities. It is possible that one or more legislative proposals may be adopted or regulatory changes may be made that would have an adverse effect on our business. Negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely affect our earnings. Reputational risk is the risk to our operations from negative public opinion. Negative public opinion can result from the actual or perceived manner in which we conduct our business activities, including our sales practices, including practices in our origination and servicing operations and retail banking operations, our management of actual or potential conflicts of interest and ethical issues; and our protection of confidential customer information. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers and can expose us to litigation. Provisions in our Articles of Incorporation, Bylaws and Florida law could impede efforts to remove management and frustrate takeover attempts. Certain provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws could delay or frustrate the removal of incumbent directors and make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest more difficult, even if such events appear to benefit stockholders. Certain provisions of state and federal law may also discourage or prohibit a future takeover attempt in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a substantial premium for their shares over then-current market prices. The voting power of the directors, executive officers and holders of 5% or more of our equity securities and certain provisions of our Articles of Incorporation may discourage any proposed takeover not approved by our Board of Directors. Our insiders hold voting rights that give them significant control over matters requiring stockholder approval. Our directors and executive officers hold substantial amounts of our Class A Common Stock, Class B Common Stock and Series B Preferred Stock. Each share of Class A Common Sock is entitled to one-tenth vote, each share of Class B Common Stock is entitled to one vote, and each share of Series B Preferred Stock is entitled to two and one-half votes. For a more detailed description of our capital stock see, “Description of Capital Stock.” These classes generally vote together on matters presented to stockholders for approval. Consequently, other stockholders’ ability to influence our actions through their vote may be limited and the non-insider stockholders may not have sufficient voting power to approve a change in control even if a significant premium is being offered for their shares. There are several business and family relationships among directors that could create conflicts of interest. Several of our directors have business relationships with us and each other as disclosed in note (16) Related Party Transactions in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We have “opted-out” of the Florida statute which would require the approval of either disinterested directors or a super majority vote of disinterested stockholders in the event of a certain affiliate transactions. Business and family relationships among us, our directors and officers may create conflicts of interest which are reviewed and addressed by our board of directors. We cannot assure you that your interests will coincide with those of our officers and directors. 15 Table of Contents 