Item 1A. Risk Factors The continuation of current market conditions could adversely impact our business. In fiscal 2007 a combination of rising interest rates and softening real estate prices throughout the United States culminated in an industry-wide increase in borrowers unable to make their mortgage payments and increased foreclosure rates. Lenders in certain sections of the housing and mortgage markets were forced to close or limit their operations. In response, financial institutions have tightened their underwriting standards, limiting the availability of sources of credit and liquidity. These conditions have already directly impacted the demand for our products by customers and by secondary market participants. If these negative market conditions become more widespread or continue for a prolonged period our earnings and capital could be negatively impacted. In response, we have shifted from primarily originating monthly payment option products to Select-My-Payment loans and conforming agency loans. Additionally, we are transitioning to selling more loans into the secondary market and maintaining a smaller portion of our production in portfolio. Our business may be adversely influenced if the markets do not accept our new products on a similar scale to our traditional offerings. Changes in economic conditions could cause an increase in delinquencies and non-performing assets, including loan charge-offs, and depress our income and growth. Our loan portfolios include many real estate secured loans, demand for which may decrease during economic downturns as a result of, among other things, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values, a slowdown in housing price appreciation or increases in interest rates. These factors could depress our earnings and consequently our financial condition because: • customers may not want or need our products and services; • borrowers may not be able to repay their loans; • the value of the collateral securing our loans to borrowers may decline; and • the quality of our loan portfolio may decline. Any of the latter four scenarios could cause an increase in delinquencies and non-performing assets or require us to charge-off a percentage of our loans and/or increase our provision for loan losses, which would reduce our income. In order to limit our credit risk, certain of our loans require borrowers to purchase credit enhancements such as private mortgage insurance. Fraud or misrepresentation could result in the denial of our mortgage insurance claim, which could increase our potential loss on a property. Repeated denials of claims or the financial failure of one of our mortgage insurance providers could have a negative affect on our earnings. An inadequate allowance for loan losses would reduce our earnings. We are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans will not be sufficient to assure full repayment. Credit losses are inherent in the lending business and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and our ability to meet our obligations. Volatility and deterioration in domestic and foreign economies may also increase our risk for credit losses. Our portfolio composition, as of September 30, 2007, of which approximately 97% of loans are primarily secured by real estate, tends to reduce loss exposure. We evaluate the collectibility of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for loan losses that we believe is adequate based upon such factors as: • the risk characteristics of various classifications of loans; • previous loan loss experience; • specific loans that have loss potential; 16 Table of Contents • delinquency trends; • estimated fair market value of the collateral; • current economic conditions; • the views of our regulators; and • geographic and industry loan concentrations. If our evaluation is incorrect and borrower defaults cause losses exceeding our allowance for loan losses, our earnings could be significantly and adversely affected. We cannot assure you that our allowance will be adequate to cover loan losses inherent in our portfolio. We may experience losses in our loan portfolios or perceive adverse trends that require us to significantly increase our allowance for loan losses in the future, which would also reduce our earnings. During the quarter ended September 30, 2007, we experienced elevated levels of nonperforming assets and correspondingly recorded an increase to the allowance. If nonperforming assets were to remain elevated we would need to maintain a higher allowance which would reduce our earnings. Reduced demand for our loans in the secondary market could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Historically, we have held our loan production in our portfolio. However, periodically we have sold a portion of our loans in the secondary market. We are transitioning to selling a greater portion of our loans into the secondary market and retaining a smaller portion of our production. A lack of demand or secondary market illiquidity could have an adverse effect on our balance sheet, earnings and capital levels. We may need additional capital resources in the future and these capital resources may not be available when needed or at all. We may need to incur additional debt or equity financing in the future for growth, investment or strategic acquisitions. We cannot assure you that such financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain additional financing, we may not be able to grow or make strategic acquisitions or investments. Net interest income could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates and lag in repricing of assets as compared to liabilities. Our profitability depends to a large extent on the Bank’s net interest income, which is the difference between income on interest-earning assets such as mortgage loans and investment securities, and expense on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. We are affected by changes in general interest rate levels and by other economic factors beyond our control. Our net interest income may be reduced if: (i) more interest-earning assets than interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature during a time when interest rates are declining or (ii) more interest-bearing liabilities than interest-earning assets reprice or mature during a time when interest rates are rising. Changes in the difference between short and long-term interest rates may also harm our business. For example, short-term deposits may be used to fund longer-term loans. When differences between short-term and long-term interest rates shrink or disappear, the spread between rates paid on deposits and received on loans could narrow significantly, decreasing our net interest income. If market interest rates rise rapidly, interest rate adjustment caps may limit increases in the interest rates on adjustable rate loans (ARMs), thus reducing our net interest income because we will need to pay the higher rates 17 Table of Contents on our deposits and borrowings while being limited on the repricing of these loans due to the interest rate caps. As of September 30, 2007, payment option loans made up approximately 70% of our residential mortgage loan portfolio including loans held for sale and represented 60.6% of our total loans (excluding unearned premiums discounts, and deferred loan cost, and including loans held for sale). The interest rates on payment option loans adjust periodically based upon a contractually agreed index or formula up to a specified cap. In times of sharply rising interest rates, these caps could negatively affect our net interest margin by limiting the potential increase to interest income. In addition, certain ARM loans reprice based on lagging interest rate indices. The effect of this lag may also negatively affect our net interest income when general interest rates continue to rise periodically. Lag risk results from timing differences between repricing of adjustable-rate assets and liabilities. The effect of this timing difference, or “lag”, would be generally favorable in a falling interest rate environment and negative during periods of rising interest rates. This lag risk can produce short-term volatility in the net interest margin during periods of interest rate movements even though over time the lag effect will balance out. Our earnings are affected by the relationship between the levels and movement of certain interest rates. Since August there has been a wide spread between Treasury rates and the LIBOR Index. The majority of our loans are based on the Monthly Treasury Average (“MTA”) index which is the average of the last 12 months 1 year Treasury adjusted to a constant maturity. Thus a prolonged period with wide spreads between Treasury and LIBOR rates, without a return to the traditionally narrow spread between the two indices could limit our earnings. An increase in loan prepayments and on prepayment of loans underlying mortgage-backed securities may adversely affect our profitability. Prepayment rates are affected by consumer behavior, conditions in the housing and financial markets, general economic conditions and the relative interest rates on fixed-rate and adjustable-rate mortgage loans. Changes in prepayment rates are therefore difficult for us to predict. Prepayments of our mortgage loans may increase as we continue to expand our mortgage loan originations outside of Florida. We recognize our deferred loan origination costs and premiums paid in originating these loans by adjusting our interest income over the contractual life of the individual loans. As prepayments occur, the rate at which net deferred loan origination costs and premiums are expensed increases. The effect of the increases of deferred costs and premium amortization may be mitigated by prepayment fees paid by the borrower when the loan is paid in full within a certain period of time which varies between loans. If prepayment occurs after the period of time when the loan is subject to a prepayment fee, the effect of the acceleration of premium and deferred cost amortization is no longer mitigated. As of September 30, 2007, we had $235 million in unearned premiums, discounts and net deferred origination costs. Of the $235 million, $227 million were related to residential mortgage loans and $2 million to commercial real estate loans. We recognize premiums we pay on mortgage-backed securities as an adjustment to interest income over the life of the security based on the rate of repayment of the securities. Acceleration of prepayments on the loans underlying a mortgage-backed security shortens the life of the security, increases the rate at which premiums are expensed and further reduces interest income. In addition, we may not be able to reinvest loan and security prepayments at rates comparable to the prepaid instrument particularly in a period of declining interest rates. Changes in interest rates could have additional adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in interest rates could have significant adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations, including, without limitation, decreasing the value of our mortgage servicing rights or our derivative 18 Table of Contents instruments. The initial and ongoing valuation and amortization of mortgage servicing rights is significantly impacted by interest rates, prepayment experience and the credit performance of the underlying loans. Mortgage servicing rights are also impacted by other factors, including, but not limited to, the amount of gains or losses recognized upon the securitization and sale of residential mortgage loans, the amortization of the assets and the periodic valuation of the assets. At September 30, 2007, we serviced $1.6 billion of loans for others and we had mortgage servicing rights with a carrying amount of $20.6 million. We are unable to predict changes in market interest rates, which are affected by many factors beyond our control including inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, domestic and international events and changes in financial markets in the United States and in other countries. Our net interest income is affected not only by the level and direction of interest rates, but also by the shape of the yield curve and relationships between interest sensitive instruments and key driver rates basis risks such as rate differential between the MTA and LIBOR rates , as well as balance sheet growth, client loan and deposit preferences and the timing of changes in these variables. In an increasing rate environment, our interest costs on liabilities may increase more rapidly than our income on interest earning assets. This could result in a deterioration of our net interest margin. Changes in interest rates could also adversely affect our financial condition by reducing the value of our derivative instruments. We use derivative instruments as part of our interest rate risk management activities to reduce risk associated with our borrowing activities. Our use of derivative instruments, however, exposes us to credit risk and market risk. Our credit risk is heightened when the fair value of a derivative contract is positive, which generally means that a counterparty owes money to us. We try to minimize credit risk in derivative instruments by entering into transactions with high-quality counterparties. While, our derivatives balance as of September 30, 2007 is a net credit of $614 thousand, there can be no assurance that our financial evaluation of a counterparty will be accurate or that its financial status will not change. Market risk is the adverse effect on the value of a financial instrument from a change in interest rates or implied volatility of rates. We manage market risk by establishing and monitoring limits on the types and degree of risk undertaken. Changes in interest rates may have either a positive or negative effect on the value of a derivative instrument depending on the nature of the derivative instrument. Additionally, a substantial and sustained increase in interest rates could harm our ability to originate loans because refinancing an existing loan or taking out a subordinate mortgage would be less attractive, and qualifying for a loan may be more difficult. The non-cash portion of our net interest income and repayment risks may grow because of our concentration in payment option loans. At September 30, 2007, our payment option loans made up 60.6% of our total loans (excluding unearned premiums discounts, and deferred loan costs, and including loans held for sale). These loans provide the consumer with several payment options each month and may result in monthly payments being lower than the amount of interest due on the loan. Any unpaid monthly interest is added to the loan balance. The amount of the negative amortization is a non-cash item that is accrued in net interest income. This amount of net interest income will continue to increase as the negative amortization in our payment option loans increases. These loans provide the consumer with the ability to reduce his or her initial loan payment and limit the amount of annual increase in the required monthly payment. The loans are re-amortized and the loan payments re-calculated at the earlier of (i) five years from inception of the loan; or (ii) when a loan balance has increased to 115% of the original loan. It is anticipated that approximately $39 million of the payment option portfolio will reach the 115% level during fiscal 2008. If a loan negatively amortizes in the initial year the consumer must make the payments up in the later years of the loan. This presents a potential repayment risk if the consumer is unable to meet the higher payment or to repay the loan through refinancing or sale of the underlying property. 19 Table of Contents Our exposure to credit risk is increased by our commercial real estate, commercial business and construction lending. Commercial real estate, commercial business and construction lending generally involve higher credit risk than single-family residential lending. Such loans involve larger loan balances to a single borrower or groups of related borrowers. At September 30, 2007, we had a balance of $617 million in commercial real estate loans (including multi-family residential loans), $147 million in construction loans, $303 million in land and development loans, and $188 million in commercial business loans. Commercial real estate loans may be affected to a greater extent than residential loans by adverse conditions in real estate markets or the economy because commercial real estate borrowers’ ability to repay their loans depends on successful development of their properties, as well as the factors affecting residential real estate borrowers. These loans also involve greater risk because they generally are not fully amortizing over the loan period, but have a balloon payment due at maturity. A borrower’s ability to make a balloon payment typically will depend on being able to either refinance the loan or timely sell the underlying property. Risk of loss on a construction loan depends largely upon whether our initial estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction equals or exceeds the cost of the property construction (including interest) and the availability of permanent take-out financing. During the construction phase, a number of factors can result in delays and cost overruns. If our estimate of value is inaccurate or if actual construction costs exceed estimates, the value of the property securing our loan may be insufficient to ensure full repayment when completed through a permanent loan or by seizure of collateral. Commercial business loans are typically based on the borrowers’ ability to repay the loans from the cash flows of their businesses. Such loans may involve greater risk because the availability of funds to repay each loan depends substantially on the success of the business itself. In addition, the collateral securing the loans may depreciate over time, be difficult to appraise and liquidate, and fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. Commercial real estate, commercial business and construction loans are more susceptible to a risk of loss during a downturn in the business cycle. The underwriting, review and monitoring performed by our officers and directors cannot eliminate all of the risks related to these loans. Negative events in certain geographic areas could adversely affect our results. Some of our depositors and borrowers are citizens of other countries, including countries of Europe, Central and South America and the Caribbean, who are in the process of moving to the United States or have second homes in the United States. These loans are secured by property located in the United States, primarily in Florida, and generally carry a lower loan to value ratio than loans to domestic residents. As of September 30, 2007, the amount of residential mortgage loans made to these borrowers was approximately $1.5 billion, or 12% of our overall portfolio. The value of the underlying property provides a source of liquidation in the United States but the consumer’s ability to make his or her monthly payments may be affected by factors such as foreign exchange rates, capital outflow limitations, and other political and economic risks associated with the country of residence. Changes in the United States laws and regulations affecting residents from those countries could also adversely affect us if they result in a significant loss of deposits, increased loan defaults or a decreased market for our products. We endeavor to limit our risk through our underwriting criteria on these loans. Adverse market conditions in Florida could adversely impact us The majority of the loans in our portfolio are secured by residential and commercial properties in Florida. Deteriorating market conditions, any economic downturn in Florida or adverse changes in laws and regulations that impact the banking industry may have a negative impact on our business. Negative conditions in the Florida real estate markets could adversely affect our borrowers’ ability to repay and the value of the underlying collateral. Real estate values are impacted by various factors, including general economic conditions, 20 Table of Contents governmental rules or policies and natural disasters, such as hurricanes. Additionally, our borrowers may be confronted with increased insurance costs as a result of such natural disasters. These factors may adversely impact our borrowers’ ability to make required payments, which in turn, may negatively impact our results. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect our profitability. The banking and financial services industry is very competitive. Legal and regulatory developments have made it easier for new and sometimes unregulated competitors to compete with us. Consolidation among financial service providers has resulted in fewer very large national and regional banking and financial institutions holding a large accumulation of assets. These institutions generally have significantly greater resources, a wider geographic presence or greater accessibility to capital, compared to us. Our competitors sometimes are also able to offer more services, more favorable pricing or greater customer convenience than we do. In addition, our competition has grown from new banks and other financial services providers that target our existing or potential customers. As consolidation continues among large banks, we expect additional smaller institutions to try to exploit our market. We face substantial competition for both deposits and loans. We compete for deposits with banks, savings institutions and credit unions, as well as institutions offering uninsured investment alternatives, including money market funds and mutual funds. These competitors may offer higher interest rates than we do, which could decrease the deposits that we attract or require us to increase our rates to attract new deposits. Increased competition for deposits could increase our cost of funds and adversely affect our ability to generate the funds necessary for our lending operations. Competition for loans comes principally from other banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking companies and other lenders. In originating mortgage loans, we compete with real estate investment trusts, investment banking firms, savings and loan associations, banks, mortgage bankers, insurance companies, mutual funds, other lenders, the FNMA, the FHLMC, the Government National Mortgage Association (“GNMA”) and other entities purchasing mortgage loans. This competition could decrease the number and size of loans that we make and the interest rates and fees that we receive on these loans. The demand for residential mortgage loans in recent years has made it more difficult and expensive to recruit and retain the services of qualified lending personnel. Increased competition for loan officers and other personnel could hinder our ability to close loans and to improve our results of operations. Technological developments have allowed competitors, including some non-depository institutions, to compete more effectively in local markets, and have expanded the range of financial products, services and capital available to our target customers. If we are unable to implement, maintain and use such technologies effectively, we may not be able to offer products or achieve cost-efficiencies necessary to compete in our industry. In addition, some of these competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and lower cost structures. We are dependent upon the services of our management team and qualified personnel. We are dependent upon the ability and experience of a number of our key management personnel who have substantial experience with our operations, the financial services industry and the markets in which we offer our services. It is possible that the loss of the services of one or more of our senior executives or key managers would have an adverse effect on our operations. We depend on our account executives and loan officers to attract borrowers by, among other things, developing relationships with commercial and consumer clients, mortgage companies, real estate agents, brokers and others. We believe that these relationships lead to repeat and referral business. The market for skilled account executives and loan officers is highly competitive and historically has experienced a high rate of turnover. In addition, if a manager leaves our company, other members of the manager’s team may follow. 21 Table of Contents Competition for qualified account executives and loan officers may lead to increased hiring and retention costs. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, manage and retain other qualified personnel as we grow. We cannot assure you that we will continue to attract or retain such personnel. Adjustments for loans held for sale may adversely affect our profits. In our financial statements we must revalue, on a quarterly basis, loans that we originate and classify as held for sale to the lower of their cost or market value. Depending on market conditions, such adjustments may adversely affect our results of operations. At September 30, 2007, loans held for sale totaled $175 million compared to a total loan portfolio size of $12.6 billion (including unearned discounts, premiums and deferred loan costs) at the same date. We are exposed to credit risk from the sale of mortgage loans. We retain limited exposure from the sale of mortgage loans. We make standard representations and warranties to the purchasers. If individual mortgages are found to have not complied with the representations and warranties, we may be required to repurchase the loans. The standard representations and warranties do not assure against credit risk associated with the loans. If we are unable to maintain or expand our volume of business with independent brokers, our loan-origination business may decrease. We originate a high volume of residential mortgage loans through a network of mortgage brokers. We follow careful procedures to select the brokers with whom we establish relationships and the brokers are not required to work exclusively with us. Our competitors also have relationships with the brokers in our network and actively compete with us to obtain loans and increase broker relationships. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in maintaining our existing relationships or expanding our broker networks. Failure to do so could negatively affect the volume and profitability of our mortgage loan originations, and thus adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Our earnings could be adversely impacted by incidences of fraud and compliance failures that are not within our direct control. We are subject to fraud and compliance risk in connection with the origination of mortgage loans. Fraud risk includes the intentional misstatement of information in property appraisals or other underwriting documentation provided to us by third parties. Compliance risk is the risk that loans are not originated in compliance with applicable laws and regulations and our standards. There can be no assurance that we can prevent or detect acts of fraud or violation of law or our compliance standards by the third parties that we deal with. Repeated incidences of fraud or compliance failures adversely impact the performance of our portfolio and could require us to repurchase such loans which were sold in the secondary market. We grant residential loans under reduced documentation programs, which accounted for 31% of residential loans (excluding unearned premiums, discounts and deferred loan costs) as of September 30, 2007. Customary industry guidelines for these programs may not require information about borrowers’ income and/or assets to be submitted or verified. To the extent borrowers overstate their income and/or assets, the ability of borrowers to repay their loans may be impaired which could adversely affect the quality of our loan portfolio. While we design and structure our underwriting guidelines and practices to mitigate this risk, these guidelines and mitigating practices may not be effective in preventing increased defaults by borrowers. Recent developments in the mortgage market may affect our ability to originate loans and the profitability of loans in our pipeline. The mortgage lending industry has experienced a significant increase in delinquencies in recent months. The decline in credit quality is most noteworthy among subprime lenders. Generally, we have not originated 22 Table of Contents residential loans with credit scores below 620, except for CRA loans. Over the last several years, we have continuously tightened our credit standards and since August 2007 we have concentrated our originations on loans with credit scores over 680. While we have never been a subprime lender recent reports of credit quality, financial solvency and other problems among subprime lenders have increased volatility in the price of our common stock. If the subprime segment continues to have problems in the future and/or credit quality problems spread to other industry segments, including lenders who make reduced documentation loans to prime credit quality borrowers, there could be a prolonged decrease in the demand for our loans in the secondary market, adversely affecting our earnings and negatively impacting the price of our common stock. The residential-mortgage-origination business is a cyclical industry, has started to decline from its highest levels ever, reducing the number of loans we originate and could adversely impact our business. The residential-mortgage-origination business has historically been a cyclical industry, enjoying periods of strong growth and profitability followed by periods of shrinking volumes and industry-wide losses. The primary influence on our originations is the aggregate demand for loans in the United States, which is affected by prevailing interest rates. Increases in interest rates may adversely affect our results of operations. Liquidity risk Our liquidity may be affected by an inability to access the capital markets or by unforeseen demands on cash. This situation may arise due to circumstances beyond our control, such as a general market disruption. During 2007, there has been significant volatility in the capital markets. In the fiscal year 2007 there was a market disruption resulting in an illiquid market for our loans. The continuation of these conditions in the secondary market reduces our ability to raise liquidity through the sale of loans. We cannot predict with any degree of certainty how long these market conditions may continue, nor can we anticipate the degree of impact such market conditions will have on loan origination volumes and gain on sale results. Additionally, several of our competitors have experienced rating downgrades based in part upon the market disruption. A similar downgrade of the Company’s debt could have the effect of reducing the Company’s access to funding and increase borrowing costs. Loan sales may be difficult or less profitable to execute if our loans are defective. In connection with the sales of our loans, we are required to make a variety of customary representations and warranties regarding our company and the loans. We are subject to these representations and warranties for the life of the loan and they relate to, among other things: • compliance with applicable laws; • eligibility for whole-loan sale or securitization; • conformance with underwriting standards; • the accuracy of the information in the loan documents and loan file; and • the characteristics and enforceability of the loan. We may not be able to sell a loan that does not comply with these representations and warranties, or such sale may require greater effort or expense. If individual mortgages are found to have not complied with the representatives and warranties and if such loans are sold before we detect non-compliance, we may be obligated to repurchase the loan and bear any associated loss directly, or we may be obligated to indemnify the purchaser against any such losses. These circumstances could adversely impact the profitability of loan sales and our financial results. Failure to pay interest on our debt may adversely impact us. Deferral or default in making interest payments on debt could affect our ability to fund our operations and pay dividends on our common stock. As of September 30, 2007, we had approximately $237 million of trust 23 Table of Contents preferred securities and subordinated debentures outstanding related to ten trust subsidiaries owned by us. Interest payments, including those on adjustable rate notes, are projected to be approximately $19 million per year based on interest rates at September 30, 2007, which must be paid before we pay dividends on our capital stock, including our Class A Common Stock. We have the right to defer interest payments on the notes for up to 20 consecutive quarters. However, if we elect to defer interest payments, all deferred interest must be paid before we may pay dividends on our capital stock. Deferral of interest payments could also cause a decline in the market price of our Class A Common Stock. As of September 30, 2007, we also had credit lines of $7.2 billion under our FHLB Atlanta credit line of which $6.4 billion (including $155 million in letters of credit) was outstanding. Such borrowings from the FHLB Atlanta were secured by a pledge of approximately $9.1 billion of our residential first mortgage loans and other eligible collateral. Our total credit line with the FHLB Atlanta is approximately 50% of the Bank’s assets at each prior quarter’s end. Failure to pay interest or principal on this debt could adversely affect our business by causing us to lose our collateral and the FHLB Atlanta as a funding source. In addition to our FHLB Atlanta borrowings, we had $143 million in repurchase agreements outstanding as of September 30, 2007 all of which are secured by mortgage-backed securities or other investment securities. As of September 30, 2007, we had outstanding $120 million of convertible senior notes that mature in March 2034 and bear interest at an annual rate of 3.125% payable semiannually. Upon conversion of the notes we will deliver cash for 100% of the principal amount of the notes and may, at our discretion, in lieu of delivering shares of Class A Common Stock, deliver cash or a combination of cash and shares of Class A Common Stock for the profit shares. We may redeem for cash some or all of the notes at any time on or after March 1, 2011 at 100% of the principal amount of the notes plus any accrued and unpaid interest, contingent interest and additional amounts, if any. Holders may require us to purchase all or part of the notes for cash at a purchase price of 100% of the principal amount of the notes plus accrued and unpaid interest including contingent interest and additional amounts, if any, on March 1, 2011, March 1, 2014, March 1, 2019, March 1, 2024 and March 1, 2029 or upon the occurrence of a fundamental change. The notes are senior unsecured obligations, ranking equally in right of payment with all of our existing and future unsecured senior indebtedness. The notes are effectively subordinated to our entire senior secured indebtedness and all indebtedness and liabilities of its subsidiaries. As of September 30, 2007, we had outstanding $184 million of HiMEDS equity units. The HiMEDS carry a total distribution rate of 6.75%. Each unit has a stated amount of $50 and is comprised of (i) a 3-year purchase contract which will obligate the holder to purchase from BankUnited on May 17, 2010, a certain number of shares of our Class A Common Stock, for $50; and (ii) a 1/20 undivided beneficial interest in $1,000 principal amount of our 6.37% Senior Notes due May 17, 2012. Holders of the HiMEDS will be entitled to receive quarterly contract adjustment payments at a rate of 0.38% per year of the state amount of $50 per unit. The threshold appreciation price of the units is $32.76. As of September 30, 2007, we had outstanding $12.5 million of junior subordinated debentures due on December 15, 2017. The debentures bear an annual floating rate equal to 3-month LIBOR plus 3%. If we do not manage our growth effectively, our financial performance could be harmed. In recent years, we have experienced rapid growth that has placed certain pressures on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. As of September 30, 2007, we had 1,504 full time equivalent employees. Many of these employees have limited experience with us and a limited understanding of our systems and controls. As we grow, we need to hire additional associates and management in an intensely competitive hiring environment. Additionally, we must upgrade and expand our operational, managerial and financial systems and controls. Plans for the continued development and growth of our business in the future will also require numerous resources, systems development and capital. We cannot assure you that we will be able to: • identify and hire qualified employees; • expand our systems effectively; 24 Table of Contents • allocate our human resources optimally; or • meet our capital needs. The failure to manage growth effectively could significantly harm our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Our ability to continue to grow depends, in part, on our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel, open new branch locations, successfully attract deposits to those locations, and identify loan and investment opportunities. We also depend on maintaining productive relationships with the brokers through whom we generate the majority of our one-to-four family residential mortgage loans that we originate. Our ability to profit from our growth also will depend on whether we can efficiently fund our growth, control our costs and maintain asset quality, as well as on factors beyond our control, such as economic conditions and interest rate trends. Market conditions affecting the demand for our products, which have existed since August may not be advantageous or support continued expansion. If these conditions continue for a prolonged period we may reduce the size of our loan portfolio and balance sheet and our earnings could be adversely affected. Our future growth is dependent upon our ability to recruit additional, qualified employees, especially seasoned relationship bankers. Our business plan includes, and is dependent upon, hiring and retaining highly qualified and motivated executives and employees at every level. In particular, our success has been partly the result of our management’s ability to seek and retain highly qualified relationship bankers who have long-standing relationships in their communities. These professionals bring with them valuable customer relationships, and have been an integral part of our ability to attract deposits and to expand rapidly in our market areas. We expect to experience substantial competition in our endeavor to identify, hire and retain the top-quality employees that we believe are key to our future success. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees, we may not be able to grow our franchise and successfully execute our business strategy. We rely heavily on the proper functioning of our technology. We rely on our computer systems and outside servicers providing technology for much of our business, including recording our assets and liabilities. If our computer systems or outside technology sources fail, are not reliable, or suffer a breach of security, our ability to maintain accurate financial records may be impaired, which could materially affect our operations and financial condition. Terrorist activities could cause reductions in investor confidence and substantial volatility in real estate and securities markets. It is impossible to predict the extent to which terrorist activities may occur in the United States or other regions. It is also uncertain what affects any past or future terrorist activities and/or any consequent actions on the part of the United States government and others will have on the United States and world financial markets, local, regional and national economies, and real estate markets across the United States. Among other things, reduced investor confidence could result in substantial volatility in securities markets, a decline in general economic conditions and real estate related investments and an increase in loan defaults. Such unexpected losses and events could materially affect our results of operations. Tourism and the travel industry are important factors to the general economy of our primary market, which could be adversely affected by terrorism. Valuation Risk We carry certain assets, including investments and mortgage-backed securities, at fair value. Generally, for asset that are reported at fair value we use quoted market prices or valuation models that utilize market data inputs to estimate fair value. In certain cases quoted market prices or market data inputs may not be readily available or availability could be diminished due to market conditions. In those cases, different assumptions could result in significant changes in valuation. 25 Table of Contents We are subject to extensive regulation that could restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business and limit our ability to receive dividends from the Bank. The Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OTS as its primary federal regulator, and by the FDIC, which insures its deposits. As a member of the FHLB, the Bank must also comply with applicable regulations of the Federal Housing Finance Board and the FHLB. Regulation by these agencies is intended primarily for the protection of our depositors and the deposit insurance fund and not for the benefit of our stockholders. The Bank’s activities are also regulated under consumer protection laws applicable to our lending, deposit and other activities. A sufficient claim against us under these laws could have a material adverse effect on our results. Among other things, the Bank’s ability to pay cash dividends to the holding company is limited by these regulations. The Bank must notify the OTS in advance of any proposed distribution, and may not pay dividends or distribute any capital assets if the distribution is disapproved by the OTS. OTS regulations also impose certain minimum capital requirements that affect the amount of cash available for the payment of dividends by the Bank. Because income is received by us from the Bank through dividend payments, our ability to service the debt issued by us and dividends on our capital stock is limited by the financial condition of the Bank. The Bank’s ability to make capital distributions is subject to regulatory limitations. Generally the Bank may make a capital distribution if notice of the proposed capital distribution is filed with the OTS at least 30 days before the board of directors approves the distribution, and the OTS does not disapprove the notice. The OTS may disapprove the notice if it determines that the Bank would be undercapitalized after the proposed distribution, that the proposed distribution raises safety and soundness concerns or that the proposed distribution would violate a statute, regulation or agreement with the OTS or any condition imposed by the OTS. The Bank’s ability to make such distribution by filing a notice, instead of an application for approval, depends on maintaining eligibility for “expedited status.” The Bank currently qualifies for expedited status, but there can be no assurance that it will maintain its current status. In addition, the Bank would be required to file an application for approval of the proposed distribution, instead of a notice, if the total amount of all capital distributions for the calendar year, including the proposed distribution, would exceed the Bank’s net income for that year plus retained net income for the preceding two years. FDIC regulations also require all insured depository institutions to remain in a safe and sound condition, as defined in regulations, as a condition of federal deposit insurance. OTS regulations also restrict our ability to open new banking offices. We must publish notice of the proposed office in area newspapers and, if objections are made, the new office may be delayed or disapproved. The agencies have also promulgated guidelines regarding nontraditional mortgages, which could result in additional scrutiny regarding the underwriting and portfolio management of ARMs, as well as establishing specific disclosure requirements for payment option and interest only mortgages. It is possible that one or more legislative proposals may be adopted or regulatory changes may be made that would have an adverse effect on our business. Changes in the regulation of financial services companies and housing government-sponsored entities could adversely affect our business. Proposals for further regulation of the financial services industry are continually being introduced in Congress. The agencies regulating the financial services industry also periodically adopt changes to their regulations. Proposals that are now receiving a great deal of attention include regulation of government sponsored-entities, consumer protection initiatives relating to capital, consumer loan disclosures, security of customer information, marketing practices, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, predatory lending and risk management for commercial real estate loans. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory activities that could be used to restrict our business. Changes in the laws or regulations that govern us could further restrict our operations, impose burdensome requirements and increase our expenses which could impair our ability to meet our obligations. 26 Table of Contents Our operations could be harmed by a challenging legal climate. Class action or other litigation against lenders in certain regions or related to particular products, services or practices may arise from time to time, even if the activities subject to complaint are not unlawful. Such claims may be brought, for example, under state or federal consumer protection laws. The damages and penalties claimed in these types of matters can be substantial. We may also be adversely affected by the actions of our brokers, or if another company in our industry engages in criticized practices. Negative publicity may result in more regulation and legislative scrutiny of industry practices, as well as more litigation, which may further increase our cost of doing business and adversely affect our profitability by impeding our ability to market our products, requiring us to change them or increasing the regulatory burdens under which we operate. Negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely affect our earnings. Reputational risk is the risk to our operations from negative public opinion. Negative public opinion can result from the actual or perceived manner in which we conduct our business activities, including our sales practices, practices used in our origination and servicing operations and retail banking operations, our management of actual or potential conflicts of interest and ethical issues, and our protection of confidential customer information. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers and can expose us to litigation. Our REIT subsidiary may fail to qualify as a real estate investment trust, which would adversely affect our future after-tax earnings. Our REIT subsidiary, BU REIT, is organized and operated to qualify as a real estate investment trust under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). Although it is intended that our REIT subsidiary be owned and organized and operated in such a manner, its continued qualification as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes is not guaranteed. No assurance can be given that new legislation, Treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions will not significantly change the tax laws with respect to qualifications as a real estate investment trust or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification in a way that would adversely affect our REIT subsidiary’s ability to qualify as a real estate investment trust. Any such legislation could cause a tax event that would adversely affect our future consolidated after-tax earnings. Provisions in our Articles of Incorporation, Bylaws and Florida law could impede efforts to remove management and frustrate takeover attempts. Certain provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws could delay or frustrate the removal of incumbent directors and make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest more difficult, even if such events appear to benefit stockholders. Certain provisions of state and federal law may also discourage or prohibit a future takeover attempt in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a substantial premium for their shares over then-current market prices. The voting power of the directors, executive officers and holders of 5% or more of our equity securities and certain provisions of our Articles of Incorporation may discourage any proposed takeover not approved by our board of directors. We cannot assure you that your interests will coincide with those of our directors, executive officers or 5% stockholders. Under our Articles of Incorporation, as amended, we may issue additional shares of Class A Common Stock, Class B Common Stock and Noncumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, Series B (the “Series B Preferred Stock”) at any time. We do not intend to issue additional shares of the Class B Common Stock and Series B Preferred Stock if the issuance would result in the termination of trading of the Class A Common Stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Our insiders hold voting rights that give them significant control over matters requiring stockholder approval. Our directors and executive officers hold substantial amounts of our Class A Common Stock, Class B Common Stock and Series B Preferred Stock. Each share of Class A Common Stock is entitled to one-tenth vote, 27 Table of Contents each share of Class B Common Stock is entitled to one vote, and each share of Series B Preferred Stock is entitled to two and one-half votes. For a more detailed description of our capital stock, see “Description of capital stock.” These classes generally vote together on matters presented to stockholders for approval. Consequently, other stockholders’ ability to influence our actions through their vote may be limited and the non-insider stockholders may not have sufficient voting power to approve a change in control even if a significant premium is being offered for their shares. We cannot assure you that our officers and directors will vote their shares in accordance with your interests. There are several business and family relationships among directors that could create conflicts of interest. Several of our directors have business relationships with us and each other as disclosed in note (16) Related Party Transactions in the notes and Consolidated Financial Statements. We have “opted-out” of the Florida statute, which would require the approval of either disinterested directors or a super majority vote of disinterested stockholders in the event of certain affiliate transactions. Business and family relationships among us, our directors and officers may create conflicts of interest which are reviewed and addressed by our board of directors. We cannot assure you that your interests will coincide with those of our officers and directors. There is volatility related to our common stock price. Changes in the price of our stock have been historically volatile compared to price changes in the general market. The market price of our common stock is subject to significant fluctuation in response to various market factors and events, including variations in our performance and results, changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts, publicity regarding the industry, the Company and its competitors, the banking and mortgage industries generally and new statutes or regulations. In addition, stock market fluctuations unrelated to our operating performance could result in an adverse affect on the price of our common stock. Based on published reports, at July 15, 2006 we had a short interest in our Class A Common Stock of approximately 1.5%. In August 2006 the short interest in our Class A Common stock started to increase and has remained at elevated levels since the first quarter of fiscal 2007. At November 15, 2007 short interest in our Class A Common stock was 48%. There is no guarantee that short sales will not continue to depress the price of our stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 