ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Each of the following risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our operations include our primary operating subsidiary, ABF. For 2006, ABF represented 97.3% of the Company’s consolidated revenues. The transportation industry is affected by business risks that are largely out of our control, any of which could significantly reduce our operating margins and income. The factors that could have a negative impact on our performance in the future include general economic factors; loss of key employees; antiterrorism measures; an increasingly competitive freight rate environment; volatile fuel prices and the inability to collect fuel surcharges or obtain sufficient fuel supplies; loss of third-party rail service providers; increasing capital requirements; increases in new equipment costs and decreases in the amount we are able to obtain for sales of our used equipment; emissions-control regulations; decreases in the availability of new equipment; increases in the frequency and/or the severity of workers’ compensation and/or third party casualty claims; increases in workers’ compensation and/or third-party casualty insurance premiums; violation of federal regulations and increasing costs for compliance with regulations; a workforce stoppage by our employees covered under our collective bargaining agreement; difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers and/or dockworkers; increases in the required contributions under our collective bargaining agreements with the IBT for wage contributions and/or benefits contributions to multiemployer plans; a failure of our information systems; a violation of an environmental law or regulation; and/or weather or seasonal fluctuations. We are subject to general economic factors that are largely beyond our control, any of which could significantly reduce our operating margins and income. Our performance is affected by recessionary economic cycles and downturns in customers’ business cycles and changes in their business practices. Economic conditions could adversely affect our customers’ business levels, the amount of transportation services they need and their ability to pay for our services. Customers encountering adverse economic conditions represent a greater potential for uncollectible accounts receivable, and as a result, we may be required to increase our allowances for uncollectible accounts receivable. In addition, customers could reduce the number of carriers they use by selecting so-called “core carriers” as approved transportation service providers, and in some instances, we may not be selected. It is not possible to predict the effects of armed conflicts or terrorist attacks and subsequent events on the economy or on consumer confidence in the United States, or the impact, if any, on our future results of operations or financial condition. Our management team is an important part of our business and loss of key employees could impair our success. We benefit from the leadership and experience of our senior management team and depend on their continued services to successfully implement our business strategy. The unexpected loss of key employees could have an adverse effect on our operations and profitability. We continue to develop and retain a core group of officers and managers although future retention cannot be assured. 10 Table of Contents Our business could be harmed by antiterrorism measures. Since the terrorist attacks on the United States, federal, state and municipal authorities have implemented and are implementing various security measures, including checkpoints and travel restrictions on large trucks. Although many companies will be adversely affected by any slowdown in the availability of freight transportation, the negative impact could affect our business disproportionately. For example, we offer specialized services that guarantee on-time delivery. If the new security measures disrupt the timing of deliveries, we could fail to meet the needs of our customers or could incur increased costs in order to do so. We operate in a highly competitive industry and our business could suffer if our operating subsidiaries were unable to adequately address downward pricing pressures and other factors that could adversely affect their ability to compete with other companies. Numerous competitive factors could impair our ability to maintain our current profitability. These factors include: We compete with many other LTL carriers of varying sizes, including both union and nonunion LTL carriers and, to a lesser extent, with truckload carriers and railroads. Our nonunion competitors have a lower fringe benefit cost structure for their freight-handling and driving personnel than union carriers. However, we believe that we have lower turnover rates and higher labor efficiency rates than some of our competitors. Our competitors could reduce their freight rates to gain market share, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy. This could limit our ability to maintain or increase freight rates, maintain our operating margins or grow tonnage levels. The trend toward consolidation in the transportation industry could continue to create larger LTL carriers with greater financial resources and other competitive advantages relating to their size. We could experience some difficulty if the remaining LTL carriers, in fact, have a competitive advantage because of their size. Our new service and growth initiatives may not be accepted by our customers. Our continuing development of more second-day service lanes, overnight lanes and same-day service will require ongoing investment in personnel and infrastructure. In addition, the level of revenues expected to be generated from these service initiatives may be impacted by actions of our competitors. Depending on the timing and level of revenues generated from these service initiatives, our results of operations and cash flows may be negatively impacted. We depend heavily on the availability of fuel for our trucks. Fuel shortages, increases in fuel costs and the inability to collect fuel surcharges or obtain sufficient fuel supplies could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Fuel prices have fluctuated significantly in recent years. However, consistent with industry practice, we charge a fuel surcharge based on changes in diesel fuel prices compared to a national index. Customer acceptance of the fuel surcharges has been good; however, we cannot be certain that collection of fuel surcharges will continue in the future. Although fuel costs increased significantly in recent years, increased revenues from diesel fuel surcharges more than offset these higher diesel fuel costs. We have experienced cost increases in other operating costs as a result of increased fuel prices. However, the total impact of higher energy prices on other non-fuel-related expenses is difficult to ascertain. As diesel fuel prices decline, the fuel surcharge and associated direct diesel fuel costs also decline by different degrees. Depending upon the rates of these declines and the impact on costs in other fuel and energy-related areas, operating margins could be negatively impacted. However, lower fuel surcharge levels may, over time, improve ABF’s ability to increase other elements of margin, since the total price is governed by market forces, although there can be no assurances in this regard. We do not have any long-term 11 Table of Contents fuel purchase contracts and have not entered into any hedging arrangements to protect against fuel price increases. Significant changes in diesel fuel prices and the associated fuel surcharge may increase volatility in our reported revenues. Volatile fuel prices will continue to impact our results of operations. We depend on transportation provided by rail services and a disruption of this service could adversely affect our operations. In 2006, ABF’s rail utilization was 15.5% of total miles. If a disruption in transportation services from the rail service providers occurred, we could be faced with business interruptions that could cause us to fail to meet the needs of our customers. If these situations occurred, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely impacted. We have significant ongoing capital requirements that could affect profitability if we were unable to generate sufficient cash from operations. We have significant ongoing capital requirements. If we were not able to generate sufficient cash from operations in the future, our growth could be limited, we could have to utilize our existing financing arrangements to a greater extent or enter into additional leasing arrangements, or our revenue equipment may have to be held for longer periods, which would result in increased maintenance costs. If these situations occurred, there could be an adverse effect on our profitability. Increased prices for new revenue equipment and decreases in the value of used revenue equipment could adversely affect our earnings and cash flows. Manufacturers have raised the prices of new equipment significantly, in part, to offset their costs of compliance with new EPA tractor engine design requirements intended to reduce emissions. The initial requirements took effect October 1, 2002, and more restrictive EPA engine design requirements became effective on January 1, 2007. Further equipment price increases may result from these requirements. If new equipment prices increase more than anticipated, we could incur higher depreciation and rental expenses than anticipated. If we were unable to offset any such increases in expenses with freight rate increases, our results of operations could be adversely affected. If the market value of revenue equipment being used in our operations were to decrease, we could incur impairment losses and our cash flows could be adversely affected. The engines used in our newer tractors are subject to new emissions-control regulations, which could substantially increase operating expenses. Tractor engines that comply with the EPA emission-control design requirements that took effect on January 1, 2007 are generally less fuel-efficient and may result in increased maintenance costs than engines in tractors manufactured before these requirements became effective. If we are unable to offset resulting increases in fuel expenses or maintenance costs with higher freight rates, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Decreases in the availability of new tractors and trailers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. From time to time, some tractor and trailer vendors have reduced their manufacturing output due, for example, to lower demand for their products in economic downturns or a shortage of component parts. As conditions changed, some of those vendors have had difficulty fulfilling any increased demand for new equipment. Also, vendors must meet the new EPA emission-control design requirements that took effect on January 1, 2007, possibly leading to tractor shortages. An inability to continue to obtain an adequate supply of new tractors or trailers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents Ongoing claims expenses could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our self-insurance retention levels are currently $1.0 million for each workers’ compensation loss, $1.0 million for each cargo loss and generally $1.0 million for each third-party casualty loss. For medical benefits, we self-insure up to $150,000 per person, per claim year. We maintain insurance for liabilities above the amounts of self-insurance to certain limits. If the frequency and/or severity of claims increase, our operating results could be adversely affected. The timing of the incurrence of these costs could significantly and adversely impact our operating results compared to prior periods. In addition, if we were to lose our ability to self-insure for any significant period of time, insurance costs could materially increase and we could experience difficulty in obtaining adequate levels of insurance coverage in that event. Increased insurance premium costs could have an adverse effect on our operating results. In the last several years, insurance carriers have increased premiums for many companies, including transportation companies. We could experience additional increases in our insurance premiums in the future. If our insurance or claims expenses increase and we were unable to offset the increase with higher freight rates, our earnings could be adversely affected. We operate in a highly regulated industry and costs of compliance with, or liability for violations of, existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Various federal and state agencies exercise broad regulatory powers over the transportation business, generally governing such activities as authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, safety, insurance requirements and financial reporting. We could also become subject to new or more restrictive regulations, such as regulations relating to fuel emissions, drivers’ hours of service or ergonomics. Compliance with such regulations could substantially reduce equipment productivity, and the costs of compliance could increase our operating expenses. On August 19, 2005, the DOT issued new rules regulating work and sleep schedules for commercial truck drivers. The new rules replaced Hours-of-Service Regulations that were last updated in 2003. The new rules, which were effective October 1, 2005, have had a minimal impact upon our operations. However, future changes in these rules could materially and adversely affect our operating efficiency and increase costs. Our drivers and dockworkers also must comply with the safety and fitness regulations promulgated by the DOT, including those relating to drug and alcohol testing and hours of service. The Transportation Security Administration of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security has adopted regulations that will require all drivers who carry hazardous materials to undergo background checks by the Federal Bureau of Investigation when they obtain or renew their licenses. Failures to comply with DOT safety regulations or downgrades in our safety rating could have a material adverse impact on our operations or financial condition. A downgrade in our safety rating could cause us to lose the ability to self-insure. The loss of our ability to self-insure for any significant period of time could materially increase insurance costs. In addition, we could experience difficulty in obtaining adequate levels of coverage in that event. Increases in license and registration fees could also have an adverse effect on our operating results. We depend on our employees to support our operating business and future growth opportunities. If our relationship with our employees were to deteriorate, we could be faced with labor disruptions or stoppages, which could have a material adverse affect on our business and reduce our operating results and place us at a disadvantage relative to nonunion competitors. 13 Table of Contents Most of ABF’s union employees are covered under a collective bargaining agreement with the IBT. This agreement expires in March 2008. Negotiations on a new agreement are expected to begin prior to March 2008. If an agreement is not reached before the expiration of the current agreement, we could be faced with a union workforce disruption or stoppage and, as a result, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely impacted. We compete against both union and nonunion LTL carriers. Union companies typically have somewhat higher wage costs and significantly higher fringe benefit costs than nonunion companies. Union companies typically experience lower employee turnover and higher productivity compared to some nonunion companies. Due to our national reputation, our working conditions and wages and benefits, we have not historically experienced any significant long-term difficulty in attracting or retaining qualified drivers, although short-term difficulties have been encountered in certain situations, such as periods of significant increases in tonnage levels. Difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers or increases in compensation or fringe benefit costs could affect our profitability and our ability to grow. If we were unable to continue to attract and retain qualified drivers, we could incur higher driver recruiting expenses or a loss of business. We could be obligated to make significant payments to cover withdrawal liabilities to multiemployer pension plans if we were to cease making our contractual monthly contributions to those plans. In addition, if a plan were found to have a funding deficiency under federal tax law, we would be required to make additional contributions to that plan to avoid excise taxes related to the funding deficiency. Retirement and health care benefits for ABF’s contractual employees are provided by a number of multiemployer plans, under the provisions of the Taft-Hartley Act. The multiemployer pension plans and their related trust funds are administered by trustees, an equal number of whom generally are appointed by the IBT and certain management carrier organizations or other appointing authorities for employer trustees as set forth in the fund’s trust agreements. We are not directly involved in the administration of the multiemployer pension plans or their related trust funds. We contribute to these plans monthly based on the hours worked by our contractual employees, as specified in the National Master Freight Agreement and other supporting supplemental agreements. Approximately 50% of our contributions are made to the Central States Southeast and Southwest Area Pension Fund (“Central States”). No amounts are required to be paid beyond our monthly contractual obligations based on the hours worked by our employees, except as discussed below. Significant increases in required contributions to the multiemployer plans could adversely impact our liquidity and results of operations. We have contingent liabilities for our share of the unfunded liabilities of each multiemployer pension plan to which ABF contributes. Our contingent liability for a plan would become payable if we were to withdraw from that plan. We have gathered data from the majority of these plans and currently estimate our total contingent withdrawal liabilities for these pension plans to be approximately $600 to $650 million on a pre-tax basis. The increase over the prior year withdrawal liability estimate primarily reflects changes in mortality assumptions used by the Central States plan. Though the best information available to us was used in computing this estimate, it is calculated with numerous assumptions, is not current and is continually changing. The funding status of these plans also may be impacted by investment returns as well as the number of participating employees, the number of employers who contribute and their related contribution amounts and the number of employees or retirees participating in the plans who no longer have a contributing employer. If we did incur withdrawal liabilities, those amounts would generally be payable over a period of 10 to 15 years. Aside from the withdrawal liabilities, we would only have an obligation to pay an amount beyond ABF’s contractual obligations to these pension plans if we received official notification of a funding deficiency. ABF has not received notification of a funding deficiency for any of the plans to which it contributes. The amount of any potential funding deficiency, if it were to materialize in the future, should be substantially less than the full withdrawal liability for each pension plan. 14 Table of Contents In August 2006, the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (the “Act”) became law. The Act mandates that multiemployer plans that are below certain funding levels adopt a rehabilitation program to improve the funding levels over a defined period of time. Based on currently available information, we believe that a number of plans in which the Company participates, including Central States, may be below the required funding levels when the Act becomes effective in 2008 and therefore would have to adopt rehabilitation programs for future plan years. However, the funding levels of these multiemployer plans in 2008 could vary from the current funding status. The Act preserves the Internal Revenue Service ten-year extension, previously received by Central States, of the period over which unfunded liabilities are amortized. Information to determine the actual impact the Act will have on the Company is not available at this time. Under the current IBT collective bargaining agreement, which extends through March 31, 2008 as described above, ABF is obligated to continue contributions to the multiemployer pension plans. We intend to meet our obligations under the agreement. Contract negotiations for periods subsequent to March 31, 2008 are expected to begin later in 2007. The financial condition of the plans, the effect of the Pension Protection Act of 2006 on the plans, and the methodology (including participation in the plans) and level of ABF’s funding required to provide retirement benefits for its union employees, will all be significant matters to be addressed in the contract negotiations. Because of uncertainties regarding these negotiations and the financial condition of the plans, either changes in our funding methodologies as a result of the negotiations or continued participation could have a material impact on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Our information technology systems are subject to certain risks that are beyond our control. We depend on the proper functioning and availability of our information systems in operating our business. These systems include our communications and data processing systems. Our information systems are protected through physical and software safeguards. However, they are still vulnerable to fire, storm, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins and similar events. We have a catastrophic disaster recovery plan and alternate processing capability, which is designed so that critical data processes should be fully operational within 48 hours. We have business interruption insurance, including, in certain circumstances, insurance against terrorist attacks under the federal Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002, which would offset losses up to certain coverage limits in the event of a catastrophe. However, a significant system failure, security breach, disruption by a virus or other damage could still interrupt or delay our operations, damage our reputation and cause a loss of customers. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the handling of hazardous materials and similar matters. We operate in industrial areas where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination could occur. We also store fuel in underground tanks at some facilities. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or leakage, environmental damage and hazardous waste disposal, among others. If we were involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances, or if we were found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. If we should fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. Our results of operations can be impacted by seasonal fluctuations or adverse weather conditions. We can be impacted by seasonal fluctuations which affect tonnage and shipment levels. Freight shipments, operating costs and earnings can also be affected adversely by inclement weather conditions. 15 Table of Contents We are also subject to risks and uncertainties that affect many other businesses, including: Any liability resulting from the cost of defending against class-action litigation, such as wage-and-hour and race discrimination claims, and any other legal proceedings; Widespread outbreak of an illness, such as avian influenza (bird flu), severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) or any other communicable disease, or any other public health crisis; and Operational or market disruptions arising from natural calamities, such as hurricanes, and from illegal acts including terrorist attacks. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 