ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS – continued Our business could be harmed by antiterrorism measures. As a result of terrorist attacks on the United States, federal, state and municipal authorities have implemented and may implement in the future various security measures, including checkpoints and travel restrictions on large trucks. Although many companies would be adversely affected by any slowdown in the availability of freight transportation, the negative impact could affect our business disproportionately. For example, we offer specialized services that guarantee on-time delivery. If security measures disrupt the timing of deliveries, we could fail to meet the needs of our customers or could incur increased costs in order to do so. There can be no assurance that new antiterrorism measures will not be implemented and that such new measures will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our results of operations can be impacted by seasonal fluctuations or adverse weather conditions. We can be impacted by seasonal fluctuations which affect tonnage and shipment levels. Freight shipments, operating costs and earnings can also be adversely affected by inclement weather conditions. Climate change may have an influence on the severity of weather conditions, which could adversely affect our freight shipments and level of services provided by our non-asset-based segments and, consequently, our operating results. Our financial statements may be impacted by future changes in accounting rules and requirements. Future changes in accounting rules and disclosure requirements could significantly impact our reported financial results and the comparability of financial statements. There are numerous new accounting proposals under development by the standard setting bodies which, if and when enacted, may have a significant impact on our financial statements, including the recognition of revenue and accounting for leases. Furthermore, a conversion from U.S. generally accepted accounting principles to International Financial Reporting Standards could change the way we account for, disclose and present various aspects of our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Potential future changes in accounting rules and regulations could be time-consuming and costly to implement. The market value of our Common Stock may fluctuate and could be substantially affected by various factors. The price of our Common Stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market constantly changes. We expect that the market price of our Common Stock will continue to fluctuate and the fluctuations may be unrelated to our financial performance. Our share price may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: · Actual or anticipated variations in our earnings, financial or operating performance or liquidity, or those of other companies in our industry; · Changes in recommendations or projections of research analysts who follow our stock or the stock of other companies in our industry; · Failure to meet the earnings projections of research analysts who follow our stock; · Changes in general economic and capital market conditions, including general market price declines or market volatility; · Reactions to our regulatory filings and announcements related to our business; · Operating and stock performance of other companies in our industry; · Actions by government regulators; · Litigation involving our company, our general industry or both; · News reports or trends, concerns and other issues related to us or our industry, including changes in regulations; and · Other factors described in this “Risk Factors” section. Our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by an unfavorable outcome resulting from these risks and uncertainties. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 21 Table of Contents 