ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS — continued We are subject to certain risks arising from our international business. We provide transportation and logistics services to and from international locations and are, therefore, subject to risks of international business, including, but not limited to, changes in the economic strength of certain foreign countries; social, political, and economic instability; the ability to secure space on third-party aircraft, ocean vessels, and other modes of transportation; burdens of complying with a wide variety of international and United States regulations and export and import laws as well as different liability standards and less developed legal systems; difficulties in enforcing contractual obligations and intellectual property rights; and changes in foreign exchange rates. In addition, natural disasters, pandemics, and insurrections could impede our ability to provide satisfactory services to customers in international locations. We are also subject to compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and hold Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (“C-TPAT’) status for our ABF Freight and Panther segments. Failure to comply with the FCPA and local regulations in the conduct of our international business operations may result in legal claims against us. If we are unable to maintain our C-TPAT status, we may face a loss of certain business due to customer requirements to deal only with C-TPAT participating carriers, because of the enhanced levels of supply chain security provided by participating in the C-TPAT program. In addition, loss of C-TPAT status for Panther, may result in significant border delays for the segment, which could cause its international operations to be less efficient than competitors also operating internationally. We also face additional risks associated with our foreign operations, including restrictive trade policies and imposition of duties, taxes, or government royalties imposed by foreign governments. These and other factors that substantially affect the operations of our international business could have a material adverse effect on the operating results of our global service offerings. Our business could be harmed by antiterrorism measures. As a result of actual or threatened terrorist attacks on the United States, federal, state, and municipal authorities have implemented and may implement in the future various security measures, including checkpoints and travel restrictions on large trucks. Although many companies would be adversely affected by any slowdown in the availability of freight transportation, the negative impact could affect our business disproportionately. For example, we offer specialized services that guarantee on-time delivery. If security measures disrupt the timing of deliveries, we could fail to meet the needs of our customers or could incur increased costs in order to do so. Additional security measures may also reduce productivity of our drivers and third-party transportation service providers, which would increase our operating costs. There can be no assurance that new antiterrorism measures will not be implemented and that such new measures will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, and our amended and restated bylaws, as amended, may have the effect of delaying or preventing an acquisition of the Company or a merger in which the Company is not the surviving company and may otherwise prevent or slow changes in our Board of Directors and management. In addition, because the Company is incorporated in Delaware, it is governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions could discourage an acquisition of the Company or other change in control transaction and thereby negatively affect the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. 29 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 