Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below are certain risk factors that could harm our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition. You should carefully read the following risk factors, together with the financial statements, related notes and other information contained in this Form 10-K. This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that contain risks and uncertainties. Please refer to the discussion of “Forward-Looking Statements” on page 1 in connection with your consideration of the risk factors and other important factors that may affect future results described below. Our results may fluctuate. Our revenue and operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. If our revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or public market analysts, the price of our common stock could fall substantially. Our revenue may fluctuate significantly for several reasons, including: the timing and success of introductions of our new products or product enhancements or those of our competitors; changes in the general business climate, including the uncertainty of IT spending; competition and pricing; customer order deferrals or reductions in the size of individual orders as a result of general business conditions; ability to increase sales from enterprise companies; and general economic conditions. Substantial portions of our operating expenses are related to personnel, facilities and marketing and sales programs. The level of spending for such expenses can not be adjusted quickly and is based, in significant part, on our expectations of future revenues. If actual revenue levels are below management’s expectations, results of operations are likely to be adversely affected. Furthermore, we have often recognized a substantial portion of our product license revenues in the last month of a quarter, with these revenues frequently concentrated in the last weeks or days of a quarter. As a result, product license revenues in any quarter are substantially dependent on orders booked and shipped in the latter part of that quarter and revenues for any future quarter are not predictable with any significant degree of accuracy. We typically do not experience order backlog. For these reasons, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. We may not be profitable in the future. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, we reported net income of approximately $3.2 million versus approximately $2.5 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004. Prior to the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004, we generally experienced losses. Prior losses have resulted in an accumulated deficit of approximately $52.9 million as of December 31, 2005. It is uncertain whether we can maintain profitability in the future. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, we had total revenue of $36.4 million versus $33.0 million in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004. We continue to aggressively monitor our expenses and conserve cash. Despite these cost saving measures, our future profitability remains uncertain because of, among other items, the uncertainty of our revenue from quarter to quarter. Failure to maintain profitability may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Business conditions and Information Technology (IT) spending could cause a decline in revenue. The level of future IT spending remains uncertain. This is particularly true in light of the changes in the general business climate in recent years. If IT spending does not increase, our ability to generate revenues may be diminished and, as a result, may be adversely impacted. We may not derive substantial incremental revenue from our alliances and SilkElite Partner Program. In an effort to increase product revenue produced by the efforts of our direct sales force, we have focused on expanding our key strategic alliances and on building a successful SilkElite Partner Program. 11 Table of Contents The SilkElite Partner Program focuses on resellers, consulting partners and distributors. SilkElite Partners resell our products, refer business to us and use our software products in the delivery of consulting services. The SilkElite Partner Program accounted for 19% of total revenue for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 versus 16% for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004. The success of our strategic alliances and the SilkElite Program is uncertain, however, and such success faces strong competition, and will continue to take time and significant resources to develop. Should we fail to generate substantial incremental revenue from our strategic alliances or our SilkElite Program, our financial results and stock price may be adversely affected. Our future success will depend on our ability to respond rapidly and effectively to technological and other market changes, including the successful introduction of new and enhanced products. The nature of the automated software testing, performance management and application monitoring markets in which we compete is characterized by rapidly changing technology, rapidly evolving customer needs and desires, changes in industry standards and practices and frequent releases of new product or enhancements by competitors. To be competitive, we feel we need to develop and introduce product enhancements and new products that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our existing and potential customers. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, over 86% of our product revenues were generated from our SilkPerformer and SilkTest products, as compared with over 92% in same period last year. This is due to the impact on our sales product mix as a result of increased sales of our product releases described below. During the quarter ended December 31, 2005, we brought to market SilkCentral Test Manager 8.1. This new version of SilkCentral Test Manager included an open application programming interface (API) for easy integration to other third-party solutions. Also included in this release was a specific integration for the CVS source control tool and enhanced reporting capabilities. Along with SilkCentral Test Manager 8.1, we released SilkCentral Issue Manager 4.0, providing enhanced integration to the SilkCentral software quality platform and additional enhancements. Finally, we also released SilkPerformer 7.3 during the quarter ended December 31, 2005, which introduced high-level support for the load testing of applications running on IBM mainframes (zSeries, System/390), IBM midframes (AS400) and UNIX platforms via Telnet (IP)-based 3270, 5250 and VT100 client emulation. SilkPerformer 7.3 also includes additional support for the Citrix environment and for Oracle Applications 11i. During the quarter ended September 30, 2005, we released SilkTest 7.6, featuring support for Motif-based applications running on Sun Solaris UNIX and Red Hat Enterprise Linux platforms. Also during the quarter ended September 30, 2005, our solution for automated load and performance testing, was certified for integration with the SAP NetWeaver open integration and application platform by SAP AG. SilkPerformer 7.2 underwent rigorous testing at the SAP Integration and Certification Center (ICC) in Walldorf, Germany, for integration of its testing capabilities with SAP Extended Computer-Aided Test Tool (“eCATT”). During the quarter ended June 30, 2005, we released several market-driven product innovations. Most significant was the release of SilkCentral Test Manager 8.0. This new test management solution, now based on the SilkCentral Common Architecture, provides a comprehensive quality platform for managing software quality activities throughout the entire application lifecycle. We also issued updated versions of SilkCentral Issue Manager, SilkTest, SilkPerformer, SilkPerformer Component Test Edition and SilkPerformer Lite to support the SilkCentral Software Quality Optimization platform. Finally, SilkTest 7.5 provides enhanced support for .Net and Java applications. During the quarter ended March 31, 2005, we released our SQO for SAP solutions that enables SAP users to optimize the quality of and obtain greater business value from SAP applications. During the quarter ended December 31, 2004, we released SilkCentral Performance Manager 2.7, the newest version of our application performance management software for monitoring production behavior of applications. If these new products are not successful, or if we fail to continue to develop and introduce new products and enhancements on a timely basis, or if we fail to maintain our level of product revenue from SilkPerformer and SilkTest our business and the results of our operations may be adversely affected. We may face liquidity issues. We believe that, based on tight expense control and the continued growth of our revenue, future sales at or above current levels should be sufficient to allow us to continue our positive cash flow. For the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2005, we generated approximately $3.5 million in overall positive cash flow. Our total net revenue of $36.4 million for the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2005 was approximately 10% greater than for the same period last year. If we fail to maintain or grow revenue, we may have to raise additional financing to fund working capital needs. If we fail to generate substantial incremental revenue, or 12 Table of Contents if we are not successful in raising additional financing on terms acceptable to us, we may not have sufficient working capital resources and our business may be adversely affected. Our stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock is subject to significant fluctuations. The market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by the announcement of new products, product enhancements or technological innovation by us or our competitors, changes in our or our competitor’s results of operations, changes in revenue, revenue growth rates and revenue mix, changes in earnings estimates by market analysts and general market conditions or market conditions specific to particular industries. In addition, the capital stocks of technology companies in general have experienced wide fluctuations in prices, which sometimes have been unrelated to their operating performance. The market price of our common stock could be adversely affected by such fluctuations. We face significant competition from other software companies. The market for Web-based software quality management and testing and monitoring tools is intensely competitive and subject to rapid technological change. We expect competition to intensify even further in the future. We currently encounter competition from a number of public and private companies, including Mercury Interactive Corporation, IBM-Rational, Compuware Corporation and Empirix. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger installed customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Therefore, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or customer requirements or may be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products than we can. An increase in competition could result in price reductions and loss of market share. Such competition and any resulting reduction in profitability may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business could be adversely affected if our products contain errors. Software products as complex as ours may contain undetected errors or “bugs” which result in product failures. The occurrence of errors could result in loss of or delay in revenue, loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, diversion of development resources, significant repair and replacement costs, injury to our reputation or damage to our efforts to build brand awareness, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We must hire and retain skilled personnel in a difficult economic environment. Qualified personnel remain in high demand throughout the software industry. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain highly skilled employees, particularly sales and marketing personnel, software engineers and other senior personnel. The failure to attract and retain the highly skilled personnel that are integral to our direct sales, product development, service and support teams may limit the rate at which we can generate sales and develop new products or product enhancements. Our ability to retain our qualified staff may be further impacted by our financial results in the future. All of this may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our earnings may be adversely affected by the new accounting treatment for stock options and we may be forced to change our employee compensation and benefits practices. On December 16, 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement 123R, Share-Based Payment, which addresses the accounting for share-based awards to employees, including employee-stock-purchase-plans (ESPPs). Statement 123R requires entities to recognize the fair value of stock options and other stock-based compensation to employees. The Statement eliminates the ability to account for share-based compensation transactions using APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and generally requires instead, that such transactions be accounted for using a fair-value-based method. The requirements in Statement 123R are effective for public companies as of the beginning of their next fiscal year, which for Segue will be in the first quarter of 2006. Our current estimate is that Statement 123R will result in an added expense of approximately $200,000 each quarter. Therefore, the adoption of Statement 123R will have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. Also, we may consider changing our employee compensation and benefits practices in a manner that may adversely impact our ability to retain existing employees and attract qualified candidates. 13 Table of Contents We face many risks associated with international business activities. We derived approximately 20% of total revenue from international customers in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, as compared with 21% in the same twelve-month period last year. The international market for software products is highly competitive and we expect to face substantial competition in this market from established and emerging companies. We face many risks associated with international business activities including currency fluctuations, imposition of government controls, export license requirements, restrictions on the export of critical technology, political and economic instability, tailoring of products to local requirements, trade restrictions, changes in tariffs and taxes, difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, longer accounts receivable payment cycles and the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations. In particular, currency fluctuations can have a significant impact on our foreign operating expenses. Continued growth of international sales is important to our growth and stability. To the extent we are unable to continue to expand international sales in a timely and cost-effective manner, our business may be materially adversely affected. Our success depends on our ability to protect our software and other proprietary technology. The unauthorized reproduction or other misappropriation of our proprietary technology could enable third-parties to benefit from our technology without paying us for it. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Although we have taken steps to protect our proprietary technology, these efforts may be inadequate. We currently rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights in our products. Currently, we have three issued patents and five are pending. There can be no assurance that these patents would be upheld if challenged. Moreover, the laws of other countries in which we market our products may afford little or no effective protection of our intellectual property. If we were to discover that any of our products violated third-party proprietary rights, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain licenses on commercially reasonable terms to continue licensing our software without substantial reengineering or that any effort to undertake such reengineering would be successful. Any claim of infringement could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim, even if the claim is invalid, and could distract management resources from our business. Furthermore, a party making such a claim could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages or result in an injunction. Any of these events may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If our proposed Merger with Borland Software Corporation is not completed, our business and stock price may be adversely affected. On February 7, 2006, we entered into a definitive agreement to be acquired by Borland Software Corporation. The Merger is subject to a number of contingencies, including approval by our stockholders, the absence of any law, order or injunction prohibiting the consummation of the Merger and other customary closing conditions, each of which must either be satisfied or waived prior to the closing. If the Merger is not completed or the completion is substantially delayed, we could be subject to a number of risks that may adversely affect our business and stock price, including: • Our stock price may fluctuate prior to completion of the Merger due to market assessments regarding the expected timing of the Merger and risks relating to the completion of the Merger, and if the Merger is not completed, our stock price may decline significantly, since the current trading price reflects a market assumption that the Merger will be completed; • We could lose important personnel as a result of the departure of employees who decide to pursue other opportunities in light of the proposed Merger; • We have and will continue to incur significant expenses related to the Merger prior to its closing, including fees paid to an investment bank for a fairness opinion for the Merger, legal fees and accounting fees, which must be paid even if the Merger is not completed; • Depending on the circumstances, we may be obligated to pay Borland a termination fee of $4.3 million and reimburse up to $1.0 million of Borland’s out-of-pocket expenses relating to the Merger Agreement; and • We may experience the additional impacts described in the risk factors below. 14 Table of Contents In connection with the proposed Merger, on or about March 17, 2006 we mailed to our stockholders and filed with the SEC a definitive proxy statement that contains important information about the proposed Merger and related matters. We urge you to read the definitive proxy statement. Our proposed Merger with Borland may adversely affect our results of operations. In response to our pending Merger with Borland, our customers may defer purchasing decisions or elect to switch to other suppliers due to, among other things, competitive issues and uncertainty about the direction of our product offerings following the Merger and our willingness to support and service existing products. Uncertainty surrounding the proposed Merger also may have an adverse effect on employee morale and retention. In addition, focus on the Merger and related matters have resulted in, and may continue to result in, the diversion of management attention and resources. To the extent that there is uncertainty about the closing of the Merger, or if the Merger does not close, our business may be harmed to the extent that customers, strategic partners or others believe that we cannot effectively compete in the marketplace without the Merger or there is customer and employee uncertainty surrounding the future direction of our product and service offerings and strategy on a stand–alone basis. Finally, the Merger Agreement imposes restrictions on our ability to conduct our business prior to the completion of the Merger. Each of these potential impacts, and others, may leave us unable to respond effectively to competitive pressures, industry developments and future opportunities or may otherwise harm our results of operations going forward. If our proposed Merger with Borland is not completed, we will have incurred substantial expenses without realizing the expected benefits. We have incurred substantial expenses in connection with our proposed Merger with Borland. The completion of the Merger depends on the satisfaction of specified conditions. We cannot guarantee that these conditions will be met. If the Merger is not completed, these expenses could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition because we would not have realized the expected benefits of the Merger. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved staff comments. 