ITEM 1A Risk Factors Following is a discussion of the most significant risk factors to investors in GAFRI securities. Intense competition could adversely affect GAFRI's profitability. GAFRI's Insurance Companies compete with individual insurers and insurance groups, mutual funds and other financial institutions. Some of GAFRI's competitors have more capital and greater resources than GAFRI, and may offer a broader range of products and lower prices than GAFRI offers. If competition limits GAFRI's ability to write new or renewal business at adequate rates, its results of operations could be adversely affected. GAFRI's premiums could be negatively affected if it is not able to attract and retain independent agents. GAFRI's reliance on the independent agency market makes it vulnerable to a reduction in the amount of business written by agents. Many of GAFRI's competitors also rely significantly on the independent agency market. Accordingly, GAFRI must compete with other insurance carriers for independent agents' business. Some of its competitors offer a wider variety of products, lower price for insurance coverage or higher commissions. Loss of a substantial portion of the business that GAFRI writes through independent agents could adversely affect GAFRI's premiums and profitability. GAFRI is subject to comprehensive regulation and its ability to earn profits may be restricted by these regulations. GAFRI is subject to comprehensive regulation by government agencies in the states where its insurance company subsidiaries are domiciled and where these subsidiaries issue policies and handle claims. GAFRI must obtain prior approval for certain corporate actions. The regulations may limit GAFRI's ability to obtain rate increases or to take other actions designed to increase GAFRI's profitability. There can be no assurance that existing insurance-related laws and regulations will not become more restrictive in the future or that new restrictive laws will not be enacted and, therefore, it is not possible to predict the potential effects of these laws and regulations. The costs of compliance or the failure to comply with existing or future regulations could harm GAFRI's financial results and its reputation with customers. See "Item 1 - Regulation" and "Item 7 - Uncertainties" for further discussion. 4 As a holding company, GAFRI is dependent on the results of operations of its insurance company subsidiaries to meet its obligations and pay future dividends. GAFRI is a holding company and a legal entity separate and distinct from its insurance company subsidiaries. As a holding company without significant operations of its own, GAFRI's principal sources of funds are dividends and other distributions from its insurance company subsidiaries. As discussed in "Item 1-Regulation", state insurance laws limit the ability of insurance companies to pay dividends or other distributions and require insurance companies to maintain specified levels of statutory capital and surplus. GAFRI's rights to participate in any distribution of assets of its insurance company subsidiaries are subject to prior claims of policyholders and creditors (except to the extent that its rights, if any, as a creditor are recognized). Consequently, GAFRI's ability to pay debts, expenses and cash dividends to its shareholders may be limited. GAFRI's failure to maintain a commercially acceptable insurance financial strength rating could negatively affect its ability to compete successfully. As discussed under "Management's Discussion and Analysis - Independent Ratings," financial strength ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies and may be expected to have an effect on an insurance company's sales. A downgrade in GAFRI's insurers' claims-paying and financial strength ratings could significantly reduce GAFRI's business volumes, adversely impact GAFRI's ability to access the capital markets and increase GAFRI's borrowing costs. Variations from the actuarial assumptions used to establish certain assets and liabilities in GAFRI's annuity and supplemental insurance business could negatively impact GAFRI's financial results. The earnings on certain products sold by GAFRI's annuity, supplemental insurance and run-off life businesses depend significantly upon the extent to which actual experience is consistent with the assumptions used in setting reserves and establishing and amortizing deferred policy acquisition costs ("DPAC"). These assumptions relate to investment yields (and spreads over fixed annuity crediting rates), mortality, surrenders, annuitizations and, on some policies, morbidity. Developing such assumptions is complex and involves information obtained from company-specific and industry-wide data, as well as general economic information. These assumptions, and therefore GAFRI's results of operations, co uld be negatively impacted by changes in any of the factors listed above. For example, GAFRI recorded pretax non-cash charges in 2005 of (i) $15.8 million to DPAC and annuity liabilities due primarily to the negative effect of lower interest rates on expected future profits of its fixed annuity operations and (ii) $13.6 million due to an unexpected increase in mortality in its run-off life operations. Adverse securities market conditions can have significant negative effects on GAFRI's investment portfolio. GAFRI's results of operations depend in part on the performance of its invested assets. As of December 31, 2005, 93% of GAFRI's investment portfolio was invested in fixed maturity securities and 2% in equity securities. Certain risks are inherent in connection with fixed maturity securities including loss upon default and price volatility in reaction to changes in interest rates and general market factors. See Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk - Fixed Maturity Portfolio." GAFRI cannot predict whether and the extent to which industry sectors in which it maintains investments may suffer losses as a result of potential decreased commercial and economic activity, or how any such decrease might impact the stock price of companies within the affected industry sectors or their ability to pay interest or principal on their securities, or how the value of any underlying collateral might be affected. Investment returns are an important part of GAFRI's overall profitability. Accordingly, adverse fluctuations in the fixed income or equity markets could adversely impact GAFRI's profitability, financial condition or cash flows. Certain stockholders exercise substantial control over GAFRI's affairs. As of December 31, 2005, American Financial Group ("AFG"), owned approximately 82% of GAFRI's outstanding common stock. As a result, AFG has the ability to exercise substantial control over the election of GAFRI's board of directors and significantly influences GAFRI's corporate actions. The price of GAFRI common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for holders to resell common stock when they want or at a price they find attractive. The price of GAFRI's common stock as listed on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") constantly changes. Since January 1, 2004, GAFRI's common stock has traded at prices ranging between $14.08 and $22.34. It is expected that the market price of GAFRI's common stock will continue to fluctuate. GAFRI's common stock price 5 can fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond its control. These factors include: lack of significant public "float"; actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; ratings agency actions; recommendations by securities analysts; significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving GAFRI or its competitors; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to GAFRI; news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in GAFRI's lines of business; material regulatory changes; and actual or anticipated changes in the dividends paid on GAFRI common stock. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, or credit loss trends, could also cause GAFRI's stock price to decrease regardless of its operating results. The stock market in general has experienced in the past, and may experience in the future, extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of GAFRI's common stock. GAFRI is subject to proposed tax law changes. Recent federal budget proposals have contained several measures related to retirement and savings accounts. In addition, the Department of the Treasury has proposed certain changes to the regulations governing 403(b) annuities. There are also a number of proposals being explored for reform of the federal income tax system. GAFRI cannot predict the long-term likelihood or final form of any tax reform legislation or the impact on the Company and its business. See "Item 7 - Uncertainties" for further discussion. GAFRI is subject to proposed state and local regulatory changes. Various competitors, schools and other entities have proposed measures that would restrict product designs and the number of companies qualified to sell annuities to teachers. Widespread acceptance of these measures could negatively impact GAFRI's 403(b) annuity operations. See "Item 7 - Uncertainties" for further discussion. 