Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a variety of risks, including the risks described below, which we believe are the most significant risks and uncertainties facing our business. However, they are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or not described below may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted and our future growth could be impacted as well. Our operations could be adversely impacted by the Macondo well incident, the continuing effects from the U.S. government moratorium on offshore deepwater drilling projects and related new regulations. On April 22, 2010, the drilling rig Deepwater Horizon, which was engaged in deepwater drilling operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, sank after an explosion and fire. The incident resulted in a significant and uncontrolled oil spill off the coast of Louisiana. On May 28, 2010, the U.S. government imposed a six-month moratorium on all offshore deepwater drilling projects. A preliminary injunction was issued blocking enforcement of the moratorium on June 22, 2010, and the U.S. government issued a new moratorium on deepwater drilling on July 12, 2010. On October 12, 2010, the U.S. government lifted the moratorium. The U.S. government has also implemented additional safety and certification requirements applicable to drilling activities in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, has imposed additional requirements with respect to development and production activities in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and has delayed the approval of applications to drill in both deepwater and shallow-water areas. In addition, the U.S. government has announced that it intends to require that operators demonstrate their compliance with new regulations before resuming deepwater drilling. We cannot predict when, if at all, operators in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico will be able to satisfy these requirements. At this time, we cannot predict what, if any, impact the Macondo well incident, the continuing effects from the U.S. government moratorium on offshore deepwater drilling projects and related new regulations may have on the regulation of offshore oil and gas exploration and development activity, or what actions may be taken by our customers or other industry participants in response to the incident. Changes in laws or regulations regarding offshore oil and gas exploration and development activities and decisions by customers and other industry participants could reduce demand for our services, which would have a negative impact on our operations. Our business segments operate in highly competitive markets. Many of our competitors, primarily in our Electrical and Industrial Products Segment, are significantly larger and have substantially more resources than we do. Competition is based on a number of factors, including price. Certain of our competitors may have lower cost structures and may, therefore, be able to provide their products and services at lower pricing than we are able to provide. We cannot be certain that our competitors will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality. Similarly, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position within our industries, maintain our customer base at current levels or increase our customer base. Global warming could impact our business. In regard to concerns about global warming, global warming could have an adverse impact on the Company, particularly in hurricane prone or low lying areas near the ocean. At this time, the Company is not able to speculate as to the potential timing or impact from potential global warming, however the Company believes that it currently has adequate insurance coverage related to natural disasters at the Company’s sites. 5 Our business segments are sensitive to economic downturns. If the general level of economic activity deteriorates from current levels, our customers may delay or cancel new projects. If there is a reduction in demand for our products or services, as a result of a downturn in the general economy, there could be a material adverse effect on price levels and the quantity of goods and services purchased, therefore adversely impacting revenues and results from operations. A number of factors, including financing conditions and potential bankruptcies in the industries we serve, could adversely affect our customers and their ability or willingness to fund capital expenditures in the future and pay for past services. International and political events may adversely affect our Electrical and Industrial Products Segment. A portion of the revenues from our Electrical and Industrial Products Segment are from international markets. The occurrence of any of the risks described below could have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, cash flows and financial condition: · political and economic instability, such as currently is occurring in Northern Africa and the Middle East; · social unrest, acts of terrorism, force majeure, war or other armed conflict; · inflation; · currency fluctuation, devaluations and conversion restrictions; · governmental activities that limit or disrupt markets, restrict payments or limit the movement of funds; and · trade restrictions and economic embargoes by the United States or other countries. Fluctuations in the price and supply of raw materials and natural gas for our business segments may adversely affect our operations. We purchase a wide variety of raw materials for our Electrical and Industrial Products Segment to manufacture our products, including steel, aluminum and copper. Unanticipated increases in raw material requirements or price increases could increase production costs and adversely affect profitability. In our Galvanizing Service Segment, zinc and natural gas represent a large portion of our cost of sales. The prices of zinc and natural gas are highly volatile. The following factors, which are beyond our control, affect the price of raw materials and natural gas for our business segments: supply and demand; freight costs and transportation availability; trade duties and taxes; and labor disputes. We seek to maintain operating margins by attempting to increase the price of our products and services in response to increased costs, but may not be successful in passing these price increases through to our customers. Our volume of fixed-price contracts for our Electrical and Industrial Products Segment could adversely affect our business. We currently generate, and expect to continue to generate, a significant portion of our revenues under fixed price contracts. We must estimate the costs of completing a particular project to bid for fixed-price contracts. The actual cost of labor and materials, however, may vary from the costs we originally estimated. Depending on the size of a particular project, variations from estimated cost could have a significant impact on our operating results for any fiscal year. Our compliance with various governmental regulations and environmental risks may increase our costs and potentially lower demand for our products. Our business is subject to numerous federal, state, provincial, local and foreign laws and regulations, including regulations, primarily in our Galvanizing Services Segment, with respect to air emissions, storm water runoff and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment, and disposal of waste materials. Although we believe we are substantially in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, legal requirements are frequently changed and subject to interpretation, and the presently unpredictable ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements could adversely impact our operations. We may be required to make significant expenditures to comply with governmental laws and regulations. Existing laws or regulations, as currently interpreted or reinterpreted in the future, or future laws or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 6 On December 15, 2009, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) officially published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other “greenhouse gases” present an endangerment to human health and the environment because emissions of such gases are contributing to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings by the EPA allow the agency to proceed with the adoption and implementation of regulations that would restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. In late September 2009, the EPA had proposed two sets of regulations in anticipation of finalizing its findings that would require a reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases from motor vehicles and that could also lead to the imposition of greenhouse gas emission limitations in Clean Air Act permits for certain stationary sources. In addition, on September 22, 2009, the EPA issued a final rule requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources in the United States beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. The adoption and implementation of any regulations over greenhouse gases could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases that may be associated with our operations. Currently the Company does not have any sites that are required to report such emissions under the new EPA climate registry regulation. The Company does not expect the regulation to have a significant impact from a cost or operations perspective, but will continue to monitor proposed legislation and regulation and its impact. On June 26, 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the “American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009,” or “ACESA,” which would establish an economy-wide cap-and-trade program to reduce U.S. emissions of greenhouse gases including carbon dioxide and methane. ACESA would require a 17% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from 2005 levels by 2020 and just over an 80% reduction of such emissions by 2050. Under this legislation, the EPA would issue a capped and steadily declining number of tradable emissions allowances to certain major sources of greenhouse gas emissions so that such sources could continue to emit greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. These allowances would be expected to escalate significantly in cost over time. The net effect of ACESA will be to impose increasing costs on the combustion of carbon-based fuels such as oil, refined petroleum products, and natural gas. The U.S. Senate has begun work on its own legislation for restricting domestic greenhouse gas emissions and the President Obama Administration has indicated its support of legislation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions through an emission allowance system. Although it is not possible at this time to predict when the Senate may act on climate change legislation or how any bill passed by the Senate would be reconciled with ACESA, any future federal laws or implementing regulations that may be adopted to address greenhouse gas emissions could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases that may be associated with our operations. Our acquisition strategy involves a number of risks. We intend to pursue growth through the pursuit of opportunities to acquire companies or assets that will enable us to expand our product and service offerings. We routinely review potential acquisitions. However, we may be unable to implement this growth strategy if we cannot reach agreement on potential strategic acquisitions on acceptable terms or for other reasons. Moreover, our acquisition strategy involves certain risks, including: · difficulties in the integration of operations and systems; · the termination of relationships by key personnel and customers of the acquired company; · a failure to add additional employees to handle the increased volume of business; · additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning, treasury management and financial reporting; · risks and liabilities from our acquisitions, some of which may not be discovered during our due diligence; · a disruption of our ongoing business or an inability of our ongoing business to receive sufficient management attention; and · a failure to realize the cost savings or other financial benefits we anticipated. Future acquisitions may require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available on attractive terms. 7 Our use of percentage-of-completion accounting in the Electrical and Industrial Products Segment could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profits. As discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” and in the notes to our consolidated financial statements, a portion of our revenues is recognized on the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. The percentage-of-completion accounting practice we use results in our recognizing contract revenues and earnings ratably over the contract term in proportion to our incurrence of contract costs. The earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract revenues, costs and profitability. Contract losses are recognized in full when determined, and contract profit estimates are adjusted based on ongoing reviews of contract profitability. Actual collection of contract amounts or change orders could differ from estimated amounts and could result in a reduction or elimination of previously recognized earnings. In certain circumstances, it is possible that such adjustments could be significant. We may not be able to fully realize the revenue value reported in our backlog for our Electrical and Industrial Products Segment. We have a backlog of work in our Electrical and Industrial Products Segment. Orders included in our backlog are represented by customer purchase orders and contracts, which we believe to be firm. Backlog develops as a result of new business secured, which represents the revenue value of new project commitments received by us during a given period. Backlog consists of projects which have either (1) not yet been started or (2) are in progress and are not yet complete. In the latter case, the revenue value reported in backlog is the remaining value associated with work that has not yet been completed. From time to time, projects that were recorded as new business are cancelled. In the event of a project cancellation, we may be reimbursed for certain costs but typically have no contractual right to the total revenue reflected in our backlog. In addition to being unable to recover certain direct costs, we may also incur additional costs resulting from underutilized assets if projects are cancelled. Our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our quarterly results may be materially and adversely affected by: · the timing and volume of work under new agreements; · general economic conditions; · inclement weather, such as that which affected much of the continental United States during our fourth quarter of fiscal 2011; · the budgetary spending patterns of customers; · variations in the margins of projects performed during any particular quarter; · losses experienced in our operations not otherwise covered by insurance; · a change in the demand or production of our products and our services caused by severe weather conditions; · a change in the mix of our customers, contracts and business; · a change in customer delivery schedule; · increases in design and manufacturing costs; and · abilities of customers to pay their invoices owed to us. Accordingly, our operating results in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results expected for any other quarter or for the entire year. We may be unsuccessful at generating internal growth. Our ability to generate internal growth will be affected by, among other factors, our ability to: · attract new customers, internationally and domestically; · potential regulatory changes; · increase the number or size of projects performed for existing customers; · hire and retain employees; and · increase volume utilizing our existing facilities. 8 Many of the factors affecting our ability to generate internal growth may be beyond our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies will be successful or that we will be able to generate cash flow sufficient to fund our operations and to support internal growth. If we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to achieve internal growth, expand our operations or grow our business. The departure of key personnel could disrupt our business. We depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers and senior management. We cannot be certain that any individual will continue in such capacity for any particular period of time. The loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees, could negatively impact our ability to manage our business. Our business requires skilled labor, and we may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees. Our ability to maintain our productivity and profitability will be limited by our ability to employ, train and retain skilled personnel necessary to meet our requirements. We may experience shortages of qualified personnel. We cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain an adequately skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy or that our labor expense will not increase as a result of shortage in the supply of skilled personnel. Labor shortages or increased labor costs could impair our ability to maintain our business or grow our revenues. Actual and potential claims, lawsuits, and proceedings could ultimately reduce our profitability and liquidity and weaken our financial condition. In the future, the Company could be named as a defendant in legal proceedings claiming damages from us in connection with the operation of our business. Most of the actions against us arise out of the normal course of our performing services or with respect to the equipment we manufacture. We could potentially be a plaintiff in legal proceedings against customers, in which we seek to recover payments of contractual amounts due to us, as well as claims for increased costs incurred by us. When appropriate, we establish provisions against certain legal exposures, and we adjust such provisions from time to time according to ongoing developments related to each exposure. If in the future our assumptions and estimates related to such exposures prove to be inadequate or incorrect, our consolidated results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, claims, lawsuits and proceedings may harm our reputation and possibly divert management resources away from operating our business. Technological innovations by competitors may make existing products and production methods obsolete. All of the products manufactured and sold by the Company depend upon the best available technology for success in the marketplace. The competitive environment is highly sensitive to technological innovation in both segments of our business. It is possible for our competitors, both foreign and domestic, to develop new products or production methods, which will make current products or methods obsolete or at least hasten their obsolescence. Catastrophic events could disrupt our business. The occurrence of catastrophic events ranging from natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis or hurricanes to epidemics such as health epidemics to acts of war and terrorism could disrupt or delay our ability to complete projects and could potentially expose the Company to third-party liability claims. Such events may or may not be fully covered by our various insurance policies or may be subject to deductibles. In addition, such events could impact our customers and suppliers, resulting in temporary or long-term delays and/or cancellations of orders or raw materials used in normal business operations. These situations are outside the Company’s control and could have a significant adverse impact on the results of operations. 9 We may incur additional healthcare costs arising from federal healthcare reform legislation. In March 2010, Congress passed, and the President signed, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. This legislation expands health care coverage to many uninsured individuals and expands coverage to those already insured. The changes required by this legislation could cause us to incur additional healthcare and other costs, but we do not expect any material short-term impact on our financial results as a result of the legislation and are currently assessing the extent of any long-term impact. Adoption of new or revised employment and labor laws and regulations could make it easier for our employees to obtain union representation and our business could be adversely impacted. Other than an immaterial number of employees at three of our indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries, none of our employees are currently represented by unions. However, our employees have the right at any time under the National Labor Relations Act to form or affiliate with a union. If some or all of our workforce were to become unionized and the terms of the collective bargaining agreement were significantly different from our current compensation arrangements, it could increase our costs and adversely impact our profitability. Any changes in regulations, the imposition of new regulations, or the enactment of new legislation could have an adverse impact on our business, to the extent it becomes easier for workers to obtain union representation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There were no unresolved SEC staff comments as of February 28, 2011. 10 