Item 1A. Risk Factors Our future results may be affected by industry trends and specific risks in our business. Some of the factors that could materially affect our future results include those described below. Operating results for a particular future period are difficult to predict and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Factors that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition include, but are not limited to, the following: Our business and stock price may be materially and adversely affected if the merger with HP is not completed. On July 23, 2007, we entered into a merger agreement with HP and Narwhal Acquisition Corporation., a wholly owned subsidiary of HP, which provides for the merger of Narwhal Acquisition Corporation with and into Neoware, with Neoware surviving the merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of HP. The announcement of the planned merger could have an adverse effect on our revenues in the near-term if customers delay, defer, or cancel purchases in response to the announcement. To the extent that the announcement of the merger creates uncertainty among persons and organizations contemplating purchases of our products or services such that several large customers, or a significant group of small customers, delays purchase decisions pending completion of the planned merger, this could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and quarterly revenues could be substantially below the expectations of market analysts and could cause a reduction in our stock price. In addition, completion of the pending merger is subject to certain conditions, including approval by the holders of our common stock, regulatory approvals and various other closing conditions. We cannot be certain that these conditions will be met or waived, that the necessary approvals will be obtained or that we will be able to successfully consummate the merger as currently contemplated under the merger agreement or at all. If the merger is not completed, we could be subject to a number of risks that may materially and adversely affect our business and stock price, including: the diversion of our management’s attention from our day-to-day business and the unavoidable disruption to our employees and our relationships with customers and strategic partners which, in turn, may detract from our ability to grow revenues and minimize costs and lead to a loss of market position that we might be unable to regain; the market price of our shares of common stock may decline to the extent the current market price of those shares reflects a market assumption that the merger will be completed; under certain circumstances we could be required to pay HP a $10.0 million termination fee; we may experience a negative reaction to any termination of the merger from our customers, employees or strategic partners which may adversely impact our future results of operations as a stand-alone entity; and the amount of the costs, fees and expenses and charges related to the merger. Restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to the completion of the pending merger with HP may have a negative impact on our operating results. We have agreed to certain restrictions on the conduct of our business in connection with the proposed merger with HP that require us to conduct our business in the ordinary course consistent with past practices, subject to specific limitations. These restrictions may delay or prevent us from undertaking business opportunities that may arise pending completion of the transaction and should the merger not occur, such restrictions could have had an adverse effect on our operations during such time. Our success depends on our ability to attract, retain and grow our business with large enterprise customers, and the long sales cycle with these customers makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable. We must retain and continue to expand our ability to reach and sell to enterprise customers by implementing our sales and marketing initiatives, adding effective channel partners and expanding our integration services. Our inability to attract and retain enterprise customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Large enterprise customers usually request special pricing and generally have longer sales cycles, which could negatively impact our revenues, and longer sales cycles could affect our ability to predict our revenues for any particular period. Additionally, as we continue to implement our new sales and 12 Table of Contents marketing initiatives in an attempt to attract and penetrate enterprise customers, we will need to increase our operating expenses. These efforts may not proportionally increase our operating revenues and could reduce our profits. Our sales cycle for large-scale deployments to large enterprise customers makes it difficult to predict when these sales will occur, and we may not be able to sustain these sales on a predictable basis. We often have a long sales cycle for these large enterprise sales because: • our sales personnel generally need to explain and demonstrate the benefits of a large-scale deployment of our products to potential and existing customers prior to sale; • our technical personnel typically spend a significant amount of time assisting potential customers in their testing and evaluation of our products and services and in integrating the products to suit their needs; • our large-scale customers are typically large and medium size organizations that carefully research their technology needs and the many potential projects prior to making capital expenditures for IT infrastructure; and • before making a purchase, our potential customers usually must obtain approvals from various levels of decision makers within their organizations, and this process can be lengthy. The long sales cycle and our lack of visibility into when these sales to enterprise customers could occur may make it difficult to predict the timing of sales, or whether they will be completed. Delays in sales could cause significant variability in our revenue and operating results for any particular period. This uneven sales pattern also will affect our inventory management and logistics costs. If predicted demand is substantially greater than actual orders received, as it was in the quarters ended June 30, and September 30, 2006, there will be an increase in inventory, which could make it necessary for us to reduce our prices or write down inventory resulting in lower gross margins and less cash. Alternatively, if orders substantially exceed predicted demand, we may not be able to fulfill all of the orders received. Our success may depend on our ability to attract, retain and grow our business with small and medium sized customers. In order to successfully attract new customer segments and expand our existing relationships with enterprise customers, we must reach and retain small- and medium-sized customers and smaller project initiatives within our large enterprise customers. We have begun a sales and marketing initiative to reach these customers. We cannot guarantee that our small- and medium-sized customer sales and marketing initiatives will be successful. Our failure to attract and retain small and medium-sized customers and smaller project initiatives within our large enterprise customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, as we continue to implement our sales and marketing initiatives in our attempt to attract and retain small and medium-sized customers and smaller project initiatives within our large enterprise customers, we will need to increase our operating expenses. These efforts may not proportionally increase our operating revenues and could reduce our profits. Because we rely on resellers and distributors, including IBM and Lenovo, to sell our products, our revenues could be negatively impacted if these companies do not continue to purchase products from us. Our future success is highly dependent upon maintaining and increasing the number of our relationships with distributors and resellers. By relying on distributors and resellers, we may have little or no contact with the ultimate users of our products, thereby making it more difficult for us to establish brand awareness, ensure proper delivery and installation of our products, service ongoing customer requirements, estimate end user demand and respond to evolving customer needs. We cannot be certain that we will be able to attract or retain resellers and distributors to market our products effectively. None of our current resellers or distributors, including IBM and Lenovo, are obligated to continue selling our products or to sell our new products, and none are precluded from selling competing products. We cannot be certain that any resellers or distributors will continue to represent our products or that our resellers or distributors will devote a sufficient amount of effort and resources to selling our products. We need to continue to expand our indirect sales channels, and if we fail to do so, our growth could be limited. A number of our distributors resell to 13 Table of Contents their own networks of channel partners with whom we have no direct relationship. Our distribution channel could be affected by disruptions in the relationships of and with our channel partners and their networks. Because many of our indirect channel partners also sell competitive products, our success and revenue growth will depend on our ability to develop and maintain strong cooperative relationships with our channel partners. We cannot assure you that our channel partners will market our products effectively, receive and fulfill customer orders of our products on a timely basis or continue to devote the resources necessary to provide us with effective sales, marketing and technical support. In order to support and develop leads for our distribution channels, we plan to continue to expand our field sales and support staff as needed. We cannot assure you that this internal expansion will be successfully completed, that the cost of this expansion will not exceed the revenues generated or that our expanded sales and support staff will be able to compete successfully against the significantly more extensive and well-funded sales and marketing operations of many of our current or potential competitors. In addition, our channel agreements are generally not exclusive and one or more of our channel partners may compete directly with another channel partner for the sale of our products in a particular region or market. This may cause such channel partners to stop or reduce their efforts in marketing our products. Our inability to effectively establish or manage our distribution channels would impact our sales. In addition, our channel partners may provide services to our end user customers that are inadequate or do not meet expectations. Such failures to provide adequate services could result in customer dissatisfaction with us or our products and services due to delays in maintenance and replacement. These occurrences could result in the loss of customers and repeat orders and could delay or limit market acceptance of our products, which would negatively affect our sales and results of operations. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from sales made directly to IBM customers through Lenovo and through our other distributors. A significant portion of our other revenue is derived from sales to resellers. If Lenovo or our other distributors were to discontinue sales of our products or reduce their sales efforts, or if IBM salespeople were to reduce their attention to our products, it could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, the continued viability and financial condition of our distributors could deteriorate and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions, including economic weakness, which could lead to significant delays in their payments to us or defaults on their payment obligations. Additionally, we could experience disruptions in the distribution of our products if our distributors’ financial conditions or operations weaken. Any significant delays, defaults or disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, one of our German distributors experienced significant financial difficulties and has since declared insolvency, which caused us to reverse revenues in the amount of $675,000 invoiced in April through June 2006 and to add $385,000 to our reserve for doubtful accounts in the quarter ended June 30, 2006. IBM and, more recently Lenovo, have been key strategic channel partners for us, distributing a substantial amount of our products. As a result of our alliances with IBM and Lenovo, we have relied on those parties for distribution of our products to their customers. Sales directly to Lenovo accounted for less than 10% of our net sales during the 2007 fiscal year, declining from 17% in our 2006 fiscal year. IBM and Lenovo are under no obligation to continue to actively market our products. In addition to our direct sales to IBM and Lenovo, IBM and Lenovo can purchase our products through individual distributors and/or resellers. Our strategy depends on expanding and diversifying our distribution channels and if we fail in these efforts, our business could be adversely affected. We are engaged in expanding, and currently intend to continue to expand, our distribution channels by expanding our sales with resellers, distributors and systems integrators. In addition, an integral part of our strategy is to continue to expand and diversify our base of channel relationships by adding more channel partners with abilities to reach large enterprise customers and to sell our newer products. This has required and will continue to require additional resources, as we will need to expand our internal sales and service coverage of these customers and our marketing personnel. If we fail in these efforts and cannot continue to expand or diversify our distribution channels, our revenues and profits could be adversely affected. In addition to this expansion and diversification of our base, we will need to maintain channel partners who cater to smaller customers. We may need to add distribution partners to maintain customer satisfaction and a steady or increasing adoption rate of our products, which could increase our operating expenses. We intend to continue to invest significant resources to develop these channels, which could 14 Table of Contents reduce our profits if our efforts do not result in significant increases in our revenues. Additionally, we have launched a price promotion program for our North American distributors which will provide them with price incentives. While we believe that this strategy will increase revenues through the distribution channel, there are no assurances that we will be successful and it may result in reduced margins. If we are unable to continue generating substantial revenues from international sales and effectively managing our international operations our business could be adversely affected. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from international sales primarily in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, or EMEA. Our international activities, primarily in EMEA, accounted for approximately 41% of revenues during our 2007 fiscal year. In addition, a portion of our operations consists of manufacturing, software and product development, and sales activities outside of the U.S. Our ability to sell our products and conduct our operations internationally is subject to a number of risks. General economic and political conditions and the imposition of governmental controls in each country, including governmental restrictions on the transfer of funds to us from our operations outside the United States, including restrictions in China, could adversely affect our operations and demand for our products and services in these markets. We may also experience reduced intellectual property and contract rights protection as a result of different business practices in certain countries, which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. Although most of our international sales are denominated in U.S. Dollars, currency exchange rate fluctuations could result in lower demand for our products or lower pricing resulting in reduced revenue and margins, as well as currency translation losses. In addition, a weakening Dollar has resulted in increased costs for our international operations (which are mostly determined in local currencies), and could result in greater costs for our international operations in the future. In addition, concerns about terrorism or an outbreak of epidemic diseases such as avian influenza or severe acute respiratory syndrome, could have a negative effect on travel and our business operations, and could result in adverse consequences on our international operations. Changes to and compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations may increase our cost of doing business in these jurisdictions. We incur additional legal compliance costs associated with our international operations and could become subject to legal penalties in foreign countries if we do not comply with local laws and regulations which may be substantially different from those in the United States. In many foreign countries, particularly those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by United States regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and any violations of such laws by our employees or contractors could have a material adverse effect on our business. Trade protection measures and import and export licensing requirements subject us to additional regulation and may prevent us from shipping products to a particular market, and increase our operating costs. In addition, our future results could be adversely affected by difficulties in staffing, and coordinating communications among and managing our international operations, which have significantly expanded and become more complex as a result of the European acquisitions completed in fiscal 2005. Our business is dependent on customer adoption of thin client devices as an alternative to personal computers, and a decrease in their rates of adoption could adversely affect our ability to increase our revenues. We are dependent on the growing use of thin client devices to increase our revenues. If thin client devices are not accepted by corporations as an alternative to personal computers, the result would be slower than anticipated revenue growth or even a decline in our revenues. Thin client devices have historically represented a very small percentage of the overall PC market, and, if sales do not grow as a percentage of the PC market, or if the overall PC market were to decline, our revenues might not grow or might decline. Alternatively, if the market were to grow faster than expected, it could attract PC manufacturers to the thin client device segment of the PC market, which would increase competition and could adversely impact our results. Our acquisition and alliance activities could disrupt our ongoing business, and we may not be able to successfully complete and integrate future acquisitions we may complete, which may materially adversely affect our growth and our operating results. In the event that the pending merger with HP is not consummated, as part of our business strategy, we engage in discussions with third parties regarding, and enter into agreements relating to, possible acquisitions, strategic 15 Table of Contents alliances and outsourcing transactions in order to further our business objectives. In order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify suitable candidates for these transactions, complete these transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired companies or employees. We may, in order to integrate acquired businesses or employees, incur significant integration and restructuring costs, both one-time and on a recurring basis. Integration and other risks of acquisitions, strategic alliances and outsourcing transactions can be more pronounced for larger and more complicated transactions, or if multiple transactions are pursued simultaneously. However, if we fail to identify and successfully complete transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally, we may be at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our revenue and selling, general and administrative expenses. Since June 2001, we have completed ten acquisitions and entered into alliances with IBM and Lenovo, and we plan to make additional acquisitions, some of which may be large and complex, or involve technologies that are outside of our core business, as part of our growth strategy. There is no assurance that we will derive benefits from the three European acquisitions we completed in the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2005, the Visara, TeleVideo or Maxspeed acquisitions we completed in the first half of fiscal 2006 or future acquisitions we pursue. We may be unable to retain key employees or key business relationships of the acquired businesses, consolidate IT infrastructures, integrate accounting controls, policies and procedures, manage supply chain integration, combine administrative, research and development and other operations, eliminate duplicative facilities and personnel, which could result in significant costs and expenses, combine product offerings and successfully commercialize and market acquired technology, and integration of the businesses may divert the attention and resources of our management. Our failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses into our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Even if such acquisitions are successfully integrated, we may not receive the expected benefits of the transactions if we find that the acquired business does not further our business strategy or that we paid more than what the business was worth. Managing the completion and integration of acquisitions and alliances requires management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. In addition, we may lack experience operating in the geographic or product market of the business acquired. There are also risks associated with the realization of benefits related to commercialization and/or marketing of projects that are in the process of being completed due to the complexity of the technology, competitive pressures and changing customer needs, and therefore there can be no assurances that any such project will be commercially successful. Even when the acquired business has already developed marketable products, there can be no assurance that the products will be successfully marketed in a timely fashion or that pre-acquisition due diligence will have identified all possible issues that might arise with respect to such products. As a result, the effects of any completed or future transactions on financial results may differ from our expectations. These transactions may result in significant costs and expenses, including severance payments and additional compensation to executives and other key personnel, charges related to the elimination of duplicative facilities, assumed liabilities, and legal, accounting and financial advisory fees. Prior acquisitions have resulted in a wide range of outcomes, from successful integration of the business and increased sales and large enterprise customers to an inability to obtain the expected benefits. In connection with completing acquisitions, we may issue shares of our common stock, potentially creating dilution for our existing stockholders. We spent approximately $900,000 during fiscal 2007 pursuing an acquisition that we did not complete. Because we depend on sole source, limited source and foreign source suppliers for the design and manufacture of our thin client products and for key components in our thin client products, we are susceptible to supply shortages that could prevent us from shipping customer orders on time, if at all, and result in lost sales. In addition, our outsourcing activities for other functions may fail to reduce costs and may disrupt operations. We depend upon single source suppliers for the design and manufacture of our thin client device products and for several of the associated components. We also depend on limited sources to supply several other industry standard components. The third party designers and manufacturers of our thin client products have access to our intellectual property which increases the risk of infringement or misappropriation of this intellectual property. We primarily rely on foreign suppliers, which subjects us to risks associated with foreign operations such as the imposition of unfavorable governmental controls or other trade restrictions, changes in tariffs, political instability and currency fluctuations. A weakening dollar could result in greater costs to us for our components. Severe acute respiratory syndrome, avian influenza and similar medical crises could also disrupt manufacturing processes and 16 Table of Contents result in quarantines being imposed in the future. We have in the past experienced and may in the future experience shortages of, or difficulties in acquiring, certain components. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from the sale of thin client devices that are bundled with our software. Third parties design and produce these thin client devices for us, and we typically do not have long-term supply contracts with them obligating them to continue producing products for us. The absence of such agreements means that, with little or no notice, these suppliers could refuse to continue to manufacture all or some of our products that we require or change the terms under which they manufacture our products. If our suppliers were to stop manufacturing our products, we might be unable to replace the lost manufacturing capacity on a timely basis. If we experience shortages of these products, or of their components, we may not be able to deliver our products to our customers, and our revenues would decline. If these suppliers were to change the terms under which they manufacture for us, our manufacturing costs could increase and our cost of revenues could increase, resulting in a decline in gross margins. If we were unable to adequately address the supply issues, we might have to reengineer some products resulting in further costs and delays. In addition, a failure of our suppliers to maintain their viability and financial condition could result in changes in payment and other terms of our relationships and their inability to produce and deliver our products on time and in sufficient quantities. Additionally, a domestic supplier that we added in fiscal 2005 requires payments in advance of our receipt of their product. We had outstanding advances to this supplier of $1.1 million at June 30, 2007, which were recorded as a prepaid expense. In the event of increased inventory levels, as occurred at September 30, 2006, we would reduce our purchase of inventory in the short term, which could adversely affect the financial condition of our suppliers and jeopardize the continued supply of our products. Finally, if one of our suppliers failed to maintain viability, we would likely be required to honor warranties granted by them to our customers for products sold by us, which would increase our costs. In addition to using third party suppliers for the manufacture of our products and supply of our components, to achieve additional cost savings or operational benefits, we have expanded, and may in the future expand, our outsourcing activities where we believe a third party may be able to provide those services in a more efficient manner. In fiscal 2006, we entered into a relationship with a third-party company that provides CRM software and services to us on an outsourced basis. To the extent that we rely on partners or third party service providers for the provision of software development services and key business process functions, we may incur increased business continuity risks. We may no longer be able to exercise control over some aspects of software development and the development, support or maintenance of operations and processes, including the internal controls associated with our business operations and processes, which could adversely affect our business. If we are unable to effectively develop and implement our outsourcing strategy, we may not realize cost structure efficiencies and our operating and financial results could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if our third party service providers experience business difficulties or are unable to provide the services as anticipated, we may need to seek alternative service providers or resume providing such services internally which could be costly and time consuming and have an adverse material effect on our operating and financial results. Our ability to accurately forecast our quarterly sales is limited, although our costs are relatively fixed in the short term, and we expect our business to be affected by rapid technological change, which may adversely affect our quarterly operating results. Our ability to accurately forecast our quarterly sales is limited, which makes it difficult to predict the quarterly revenues that we will recognize. In addition, most of our operating expenses are for personnel and facilities, which are relatively fixed in the short term. If we have a shortfall in revenues in relation to our expenses, we may be unable to reduce our operating expenses quickly enough to avoid losses. As a result, our quarterly operating results could fluctuate. Future operating results will continue to be subject to quarterly fluctuations based on a wide variety of factors, including: • Linearity — Our quarterly sales have historically reflected a pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of sales occur in the last month of the quarter due to typical customer buying patterns in the IT industry. This pattern makes prediction of revenues and earnings for each financial period especially difficult and uncertain and increases the risk of unanticipated variations in quarterly results and financial condition; • Significant Orders — We are subject to variances in our quarterly operating results because of the 17 Table of Contents fluctuations in the timing of our receipt of large orders. If even a small number of large orders are delayed until after a quarter ends, or do not materialize, our operating results could vary substantially from quarter to quarter and net income could be substantially less than expected. Conversely, if even a small number of large orders are completed in an earlier quarter than that which was anticipated, our revenues and net income could be substantially higher than expected, making it possible that sales and net income in future periods may decline sequentially. Further, if orders substantially exceed predicted demand, we may not be able to fulfill all of the orders received in the last few weeks of the quarter; • Seasonality — We have experienced seasonal reductions in business activity in some quarters based upon customer activity and based upon our partners’ seasonality. This pattern has generally resulted in lower sales in our first and third quarters than in the prior sequential quarters; and • Stock-based compensation expense — Starting in the quarter ended September 30, 2005, we began recording stock-based compensation expense as calculated pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123R. The non-cash impact of stock-based compensation expense during fiscal 2007 was $4.5 million. In addition, fluctuations in our future quarterly operating results may be caused by factors relating to our pending merger with HP, including: • risks that the pending merger with HP disrupts current plans and operations, and the potential difficulties in employee retention as a result of the announcement or pendency of the merger; • whether or not the conditions to the completion of the pending merger with HP are satisfied and the possibility that the merger will not be completed for any other reason; • the effect of the announcement or pendency of the merger with HP on our customer and strategic partner relationships, operating results and business generally; and • the amount of the costs, fees and expenses and charges related to the pending merger with HP, including the possibility that the merger agreement may be terminated under circumstances that require us to pay HP a termination fee of $10.0 million. There are factors that may affect the market acceptance of our products, some of which are beyond our control, including the following: • the growth and changing requirements of the thin client segment of the PC market; • the quality, price, performance and total cost of ownership of our products compared to personal computers; • the availability, price, quality and performance of competing products and technologies; • the timely development and introduction of new and enhanced products; and • the successful development of our relationships with software providers, original equipment manufacturers and existing and potential channel partners. We may not succeed in developing and marketing our software and thin client device products and our operating results may decline as a result. Additionally, we plan to increase our sales and marketing expenses for our products and these efforts may not proportionately increase our sales, resulting in reduced profitability. Our inventory management is complex as we sell a significant mix of products and our revenues and gross margins could suffer if we fail to manage the issues properly. We must manage inventory effectively, which involves forecasting demand and pricing issues. Demand is difficult to forecast since it depends on many factors, including pricing, changes in customer buying patterns and changes in competition. Significant unanticipated fluctuations in demand, the timing and disclosure of new product releases or the timing of key sales orders could result in costly excess inventories or the inability to secure sufficient quantities of our products to satisfy customer demand. To the extent we manufacture products in anticipation of future demand that does not materialize, or in the event a customer cancels or reduces outstanding orders, we could 18 Table of Contents experience an unanticipated increase in our inventory, as occurred in the past several quarters. This could adversely impact our revenues, gross margins and financial condition. Our use of indirect distribution methods may reduce visibility to demand and pricing issues, and therefore make forecasting more difficult. If we have excess or obsolete inventory, we may have to reduce our prices or write down inventory to market value. Our gross margins can vary significantly, based upon a variety of factors. If we are unable to sustain adequate gross margins we may be unable to reduce operating expenses in the short term, resulting in losses. Our gross margins can vary significantly from quarter to quarter depending on average selling prices, fixed costs in relation to revenue levels and the mix of our business, including the percentage of revenues derived from various thin client device models, software, third party products and consulting services. Our gross profit margin also varies in response to competitive market conditions as well as periodic fluctuations in the cost of memory and other significant components. The PC market in which we compete remains very competitive, and although we intend to continue our efforts to reduce the cost of our products, there can be no certainty that we will not be required to reduce prices of our products without compensating reductions in the cost to produce our products in order to maintain or increase our market share or to meet competitors’ price reductions. Our marketing strategy is targeted at increasing the size of the thin client segment of the PC industry, in part by lowering prices to make thin clients more competitive with personal computers, by selling a larger percentage of products to large enterprise customers, who typically demand lower prices because of their volume purchases, and by focusing on sales through our distribution channel. This strategy, combined with the implementation of our new sales and marketing initiatives, have resulted in, a decline in our gross margins. Additionally, we have certain newer products, including our e900 ruggedized thin client and m100 laptop product line, which have higher average selling prices and higher gross profit dollars, but lower gross margin percentages than our traditional products. If our sales do not continue to increase as a result of these strategies, our profitability will decline, and we may experience losses. Finally, our gross margins may decline if it is necessary for us to reduce the prices of our products as a result of excess inventory. During the past several years, we have increased operating expenses significantly as a foundation for us to stimulate our growth and growth in our market, and we increased our operating expenses during fiscal 2007, and intend to continue to increase our operating expenses during fiscal 2008, including increases needed to implement our new sales and marketing and product development initiatives. If we do not increase revenues or appropriately manage further increases in operating expenses, our profitability will suffer. Our business has grown through both internal expansion and business acquisitions, and, as a result, we have significantly increased our operating expenses. If our revenues fail to increase as we increase our operating expenses, our profits may decline. Additionally, this growth has put pressure on our infrastructure, internal systems and managerial resources. The number of our employees increased from 186 full-time employees at June 30, 2006 to 190 full-time employees at June 30, 2007 and we expect to add a significant number of new employees during fiscal 2008. Our new employees include key managerial, technical, sales and marketing personnel, as well as international employees. To manage our growth effectively, we must continue to improve and expand our infrastructure, including operating and administrative systems and controls, and continue managing and integrating our personnel in an efficient manner. Our business may be adversely affected if we do not integrate and train our new employees quickly and effectively and coordinate among our executive, engineering, finance, marketing, sales, operations and customer support organizations. In addition, because of the growth of our international operations, we now have facilities located in multiple countries, and we have limited experience coordinating a geographically separated organization. If we are unable to effectively manage our growth, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. We may not generate sufficient future taxable income to allow us to realize our deferred tax assets. We have a significant amount of U.S. Federal, state and other tax loss carryforwards that will be available to reduce the taxes we would otherwise owe in the future. We have recognized the value of these future tax deductions in our consolidated balance sheets. The realization of our deferred tax assets is dependent upon our generation of future taxable income during the periods in which we are permitted, by law, to use those assets. We exercise judgment in evaluating our ability to realize the recorded value of these assets, and consider a variety of factors, including the scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income and tax planning strategies in making this assessment. Our evaluation of the realizability of deferred tax assets must consider both 19 Table of Contents positive and negative evidence, and the weight given to the potential effects of positive and negative evidence is based on the extent to which the evidence can be verified objectively. While we believe that sufficient positive evidence exists to support our determination that the realization of our deferred tax assets is more likely than not, we cannot guarantee profitable U.S operations in the future that will allow us to fully realize those assets. Our business may suffer if it is alleged or found that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of others. In the course of our business, we receive notices from third parties claiming that we are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. We evaluate the validity of the claims and determine whether we will negotiate licenses to use the technology. Even if we believe that the claims are without merit, responding to such claims can be time consuming, result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention and resources and cause us to incur significant expenses. There is no assurance, in the event of such claims, that we would be able to enter into a licensing arrangement on acceptable terms or that litigation would not occur. In the event that there were a temporary or permanent injunction entered prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain of our products, or a successful claim of infringement against us requiring us to pay royalties to a third party, and we failed to develop or license a substitute technology, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, certain products or technologies developed by us, including for example the Linux-based products, may incorporate so-called “open source” software. Open source software is typically licensed for use at no initial charge, but certain open source software licenses impose on the licensee of the applicable open source software certain requirements to license or make available to others both the open source software as well as the software that relates to, or interacts with, the open source software. Our ability to commercialize products or technologies incorporating open source software may be restricted as a result of using such open source software because, among other reasons: • open source license terms may be ambiguous and may result in being subject to unanticipated obligations regarding our products and technologies; • competitors may have improved access to information that may help them develop competitive products; • open source software cannot be protected under trade secret law; and • it may be difficult for us to accurately determine the origin of the open source code and whether the open source software in fact infringes third party intellectual property rights. Thin client device products, like personal computers, are subject to rapid technological change due to changing operating system software and network hardware and software configurations, and our products could be rendered obsolete by new technologies. The PC market is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, uncertain product life cycles, changes in customer demands and evolving industry standards. Our products could be rendered obsolete if products based on new technologies are introduced or new industry standards emerge. If we are unable to rapidly and successfully develop and introduce new products and manage our inventory, we will not be able to satisfy customer demand. We operate in a highly competitive, quickly changing environment, and our future success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products, such as virtualization products and solutions, that our customers choose to buy. If we are unable to develop new products, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. We must quickly develop, introduce and deliver new software and hardware products. These include our Neoware Device Manager, Image Manager and Linux operating system, among others. If we fail to accurately anticipate our customers’ needs and technological trends, or are otherwise unable to complete the development of a product on a timely basis, we will be unable to introduce new products into the market on a timely basis, if at all, and our business and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. Once we have developed a new product, we must be able to manufacture new products in sufficient volumes so that we can have an adequate supply of new products to meet customer demand. Forecasting demand requires us to predict order volumes, the correct mix of our products and the correct configurations of these products. We must 20 Table of Contents manage new product introductions and transitions to minimize the impact of customer-delayed purchases of existing products in anticipation of new product releases. We must also try to reduce the levels of older product and component inventories to minimize inventory write-offs. If we have excess inventory due to discontinued sales of specific products to new customers, as we had at September 30, 2006, it may be necessary to reduce our prices or write down inventory, which could result in lower gross margins. Additionally, our customers may delay orders for existing products in anticipation of new product introductions, such as may be the case with the introduction of Microsoft’s Vista operation system. As a result, we may decide to adjust prices of our existing products during this process to try to increase customer demand for these products. Our future operating results would be materially and adversely affected if such pricing adjustments were to occur and we were unable to mitigate the resulting margin pressure by maintaining a favorable mix of hardware, software and services, or if we were unsuccessful in achieving cost reductions, operating efficiencies and increasing sales volumes. The virtualization products and solutions we are developing are based on an emerging technology and the potential market remains uncertain and may cause delays in our sales cycles. The virtualization products and solutions we are developing are based on an emerging technology and our success depends on customers perceiving technological and operational benefits and cost savings associated with adopting virtualization solutions. The relatively limited extent to which virtualization solutions have been currently adopted may make it difficult to evaluate the potential market for our virtualization solutions, and slower than expected growth of the market would adversely affect our growth in this area. The interest in virtualization in the PC market may result in longer sales cycles for us as customers attempt to resolve their virtualization strategy and delay purchasing decisions pending a final decision on their approach. The longer sales cycle could cause significant variability in our revenues and our operating results in any particular period. We may not be able to preserve the value of our products’ intellectual property because other vendors could challenge our intellectual property rights. Our products are differentiated from those of our competitors by our internally developed technology that is incorporated into our products. We rely upon patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States and similar laws in other countries, and agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain our intellectual property rights. However, any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings or other competitive harm. Further, the laws of certain countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Therefore, in certain jurisdictions in which we operate or in which we have outsourced operations we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position and cause us to incur substantial legal fees. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, other vendors could sell products with features similar to ours, and this could reduce demand for our products, which would harm our operating results. We may not be able to effectively compete against PC and thin client providers as a result of their greater financial resources and brand awareness. In the desktop PC market, we face significant competition from makers of traditional personal computers, many of which are larger companies that have greater name recognition than we have. In addition, we face significant competition from thin client providers, including Hewlett Packard, Wyse Technology and other, smaller companies. Increased competition may negatively affect our business and future operating results by leading to price reductions, higher selling expenses or a reduction in our market share. Our strategy to seek to increase our share of the overall PC market by targeting our core markets may create increased pressure, including pricing pressure, on certain of our thin client device products. While we believe that this will enable us to increase our revenues, there is no assurance that we will be successful in this approach. In fact, our implementation of this strategy may result in reductions in gross and operating margins as we compete to attract business. Our inability to successfully implement this strategy could have an adverse impact on our revenues. Our future competitive performance depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: 21 Table of Contents • continually develop and introduce new products and services with better prices and performance than offered by our competitors in the PC market; • offer a wide range of products; and • offer high-quality products and services. If we are unable to offer products and services that compete successfully with the products and services offered by our competitors in the PC market, our business and our operating results would be harmed. In addition, if in responding to competitive pressures, we are forced to lower the prices of our products and services and we are unable to reduce our costs, our business and operating results would be harmed. As the market for our products and services continues to develop, additional companies, including companies with significant market presence in the computer software, hardware and networking industries, could enter the market in which we compete and further intensify competition. In addition, we believe that price competition could become a more significant competitive factor in the future. As a result, we may not be able to maintain our historic prices and margins, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Actions taken by the SCO Group (SCO) could impact the sale of our Linux products, negatively affecting sales of some of our products. SCO has taken legal action against IBM and certain other corporations, and sent letters to Linux customers alleging that certain Linux kernels infringe on SCO’s Unix intellectual property and other rights, and that SCO intends to aggressively protect those rights. While we are not a party to any legal proceeding with SCO, since some of our products use Linux as their operating system, SCO’s allegations, regardless of merit, could adversely affect sales of such products. SCO has brought claims against certain end user customers of the Linux operating system and threatened to bring claims against other end-users of Linux for copyright violations arising out of the facts alleged in SCO’s lawsuit against IBM. Some of these claims could be indemnified under indemnities we have given or may give to certain customers. In the event that claims for indemnification are brought against the customers that we have indemnified, we could incur expenses reimbursing the customers for their costs, and if the claims were successful, for damages. In order to continue to grow our revenues, we will need to hire additional executives and personnel and update our IT infrastructure. In order to continue to develop and market our line of thin client devices, we will need to hire additional executives and other personnel, including the additional sales and marketing employees we plan to hire to help implement our sales and marketing initiatives. In addition, during fiscal 2007 we experienced turnover in several senior executive and management positions. Competition for employees is significant and we may experience difficulty in attracting qualified people. Additionally, to meet our increased requirements for capacity and efficiency, we are continuing to update our information technology infrastructure. In the event that the updated systems do not meet our needs or are not deployed in a timely manner, our business may suffer. Future growth that we may experience will place a significant strain on our management, systems and resources. To manage the anticipated growth of our operations, we may be required to: • improve existing and implement new operational, financial and management information controls, reporting systems and procedures; • hire, train and manage additional qualified personnel; and • establish relationships with additional suppliers and partners while maintaining our existing relationships. We rely on the services of certain key personnel, and those persons’ knowledge of our business and technical expertise would be difficult to replace. Our products, technologies and operations are complex and we are substantially dependent upon the continued service of our existing personnel. The loss of any of our key employees could adversely affect our business and profits and slow our product development processes. We generally do not have employment contracts, including 22 Table of Contents non-competition agreements, with our key employees. Further, we do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our employees. If we determine that any of our goodwill or intangible assets, including technology purchased in acquisitions, are impaired, we would be required to take a charge to earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. As a result of our completed and potential future acquisitions, we anticipate that we may have a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets, such as product and core technology, related to these acquisitions. We periodically evaluate our intangible assets, including goodwill, for impairment. As of June 30, 2007, we had $37.5 million of goodwill and $8.7 million of intangible assets. We review for impairment annually, or sooner if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount could exceed fair value. Fair values are based on discounted cash flows using a discount rate determined by our management to be consistent with industry discount rates and the risks inherent in our current business model. Due to uncertain market conditions and potential changes in our strategy and product portfolio, it is possible that the forecasts we use to support our goodwill could change in the future, which could result in non-cash charges that would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If impairment is deemed to exist, we would write down the recorded value of these intangible assets to their fair values and our stock price and operating results could be materially adversely affected. We might repatriate cash from our foreign subsidiaries, which could result in additional income taxes that could negatively impact our results of operations and financial position. In addition, if foreign countries’ currency policies limit our ability to repatriate the needed funds, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted. One or more of our foreign subsidiaries may hold a portion of our cash and cash equivalents. Although our intention is to reinvest the earnings of our international subsidiaries permanently, if we need additional cash to acquire assets or technology, or to support our operations in the United States, and if the currency policies of these foreign countries allow us, we might repatriate some of our cash from these foreign subsidiaries to the United States. Depending on our financial results and the financial results of our subsidiaries at the time that the cash is repatriated, we may incur additional income taxes from the repatriation, which could negatively affect our results of operations and financial position. In addition, if the currency policies of these foreign countries prohibit or limit our ability to repatriate the needed funds, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted. Although we have generated operating profits for the five fiscal years through our 2006 fiscal year, we have a prior history of losses and incurred operating losses for our 2007 fiscal year, and may experience losses in the future, which could result in the market price of our common stock declining. Although we generated operating profits in the five fiscal years through our 2006 fiscal year, we incurred net operating losses in prior periods and for fiscal 2007. We expect to continue to incur significant operating expenses. Our operating expenses are expected to increase in the future reflecting the hiring of additional key personnel as we continue to implement our growth strategy and develop new products and enhance existing products. As a result, we will need to generate significant revenues and gross profit margin to maintain profitability. If we do not maintain profitability, the market price for our common stock may decline. Our financial resources may not be enough for our capital and corporate development needs, and we may not be able to obtain additional financing. A failure to maintain and increase our revenues would likely cause us to incur losses and negatively impact the price of our common stock. Because some of our products use embedded versions of Microsoft Windows as their operating system, an inability to license these operating systems on favorable terms could impair our ability to introduce new products and maintain market share. We may not be able to introduce new products on a timely basis because some of our products use embedded versions of Microsoft Windows as their operating system. Microsoft provides Windows to us, and we do not have access to the source code for certain versions of the Windows operating system. If Microsoft fails to continue to enhance and develop its embedded operating systems, or if we are unable to license these operating systems on favorable terms, or at all, our operations may suffer. 23 Table of Contents Because some of our products use Linux as their operating system as well as other open source technologies, the failure of open source developers to enhance and develop open source software that we use could impair our ability to release new products and maintain market share. We may not be able to release new products on a timely basis because some of our products use Linux as their operating system and include other open source software. Much of the open source software we use is maintained by third parties. If this group of developers fails to further develop the software, we would have to either rely on other parties to further develop this software or develop it ourselves, which would increase our costs and slow our development efforts. If our contracts with Citrix and other vendors of software applications were terminated, our business would be materially adversely affected. Our thin client devices include our own software, plus software from other companies. We depend on third-party suppliers to provide us with key software applications in connection with our business. If such contracts and relationships were terminated, our revenues would be negatively affected. Unforeseen environmental costs could impact our future earnings. The European Union (“EU”) has adopted a directive to facilitate the recycling of electrical and electronic equipment sold in the EU. The Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”) directive directs EU member states to enact laws, regulations and administrative provisions to ensure that producers of electrical and electronic equipment are financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment, and environmentally sound disposal of products placed on the market after August 13, 2005, and from products in use prior to that date that are being replaced. The EU has also adopted the Restriction on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“RoHS”) directive. The RoHS directive restricts the use of lead, mercury, and certain other substances in electrical and electronic products placed on the market in the European Union after July 1, 2006. As a result of these obligations, our product distribution costs may increase and may adversely impact our financial condition. We implemented these directives during fiscal 2006. Similar legislation has been or may be proposed or enacted in other areas, including in the United States and China, the cumulative impact of which could be significant if we are unable to recover our costs to comply with these laws in the price of our products. Recent regulations related to equity compensation could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel and affect our operating results. We have historically used stock options as a key component of our employee compensation program. We believe that stock options and other long-term equity incentives directly motivate our employees to maximize long-term stockholder value, and, through the use of vesting, encourage employee retention and allow us to provide competitive compensation packages, although in recent periods many of our employee stock options have had exercise prices in excess of our stock price, which could affect our ability to retain or attract present and prospective employees. The adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment” (SFAS No. 123R) requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of stock options, to be recognized in the financial statements based on their fair values beginning with the first annual period beginning after June 15, 2005. We adopted SFAS No. 123R in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 and it has had a material impact on our financial statements. In addition, rules implemented by The NASDAQ Global Market requiring stockholder approval for all stock option plans, as well as regulations implemented by the New York Stock Exchange prohibiting NYSE member organizations from voting on equity-compensation plans unless the beneficial owner of the shares has given voting instructions, could make it more difficult for us to grant options to employees in the future. As a result of these regulations, we may change our equity compensation strategy, which may make it more difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business. In the event we are unable to satisfy regulatory requirements relating to internal controls over financial reporting, or if these internal controls are not effective, our business and financial results may suffer. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and newly enacted rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the National Association of Securities Dealers impose new duties on us and our executives, 24 Table of Contents directors, attorneys and independent registered public accountants. In order to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and such new rules and regulations, we have recently completed our evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal control over financial reporting. As a result, we have incurred additional expenses and diversion of management’s time, which increased our operating expenses and accordingly reduced our net income. While our evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of June 30, 2007 our internal control over financial reporting was effective, we cannot be certain as to the outcome of our testing in future periods. If we do not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, it could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could negatively impact the market price of our shares. Errors in our products could harm our business and our operating results. Because our software and thin client device products are complex, they could contain errors or bugs that can be detected at any point in a product’s life cycle. Although many of these errors may prove to be immaterial, any of these errors could be significant. Detection of any significant errors may result in: • the loss of or delay in market acceptance and sales of our products; • diversion of development resources; • injury to our reputation; • unsaleable inventory; or • increased maintenance and warranty costs. These problems could harm our business and future operating results. Occasionally, we have warranted that our products will operate in accordance with specified customer requirements. If our products fail to conform to these specifications, customers could demand a refund for the purchase price or assert claims for damages. Moreover, because our products are used in connection with critical distributed computing systems services, we may receive significant liability claims if our products do not work properly. Our agreements with customers typically contain provisions intended to limit our exposure to liability claims. However, these limitations may not preclude all potential claims and, from time-to-time, we enter into contractual arrangements under which we agree to indemnify a customer for certain losses it may incur. Liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages. Any such claims, whether or not successful, could seriously damage our reputation and our business. Our stock price can be volatile. Our stock price, like that of other technology companies, can be volatile. For example, our stock price can be affected by many factors such as: the termination of the merger agreement with HP; quarterly increases or decreases in our revenues or earnings, changes in revenues or earnings estimates or publication of research reports by analysts; speculation in the investment community about, or actual changes in, our executive team, our financial condition or results of operations and changes in revenue or earnings estimates; the announcement of new products, technological developments, alliances, acquisitions or divestitures by us or one of our competitors. In addition, general macroeconomic and market conditions unrelated to our financial performance may also affect our stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 