Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information in this annual report in evaluating our business or an investment in shares of our class A common stock. While these are the risks and uncertainties that we believe are the most important for you to consider, you should know that they are not the only risks or uncertainties facing us or that may adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results would likely suffer. In that event, the market price of our class A common stock could decline. Risks Relating to Our Business Weakness in the financial markets and in the general economy has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect certain segments of our customers. These general economic conditions may result in a decrease in the number of new customers we are able to attract and may negatively affect the usage levels of our services as well as customer retention. Most of our customers are businesses that use our services for business purposes. To the extent that our customers’ businesses have been adversely affected by the current uncertainties in the credit markets and weakness in the mortgage market, retail industry and general economy, those factors might cause fewer new customers to purchase our services, might cause existing customers to use our services less frequently and might cause some customers to cease using our services. Any such outcomes could negatively affect our ability to generate revenue. 10 Table of Contents Acquisitions are central to our growth plan, if we cannot find, finance and integrate accretive acquisitions, our financial results will suffer. Our ability to implement our business plan depends on identifying appropriate acquisitions, negotiating accretive financial terms, obtaining additional financing at affordable costs, if required, and successfully integrating the acquired businesses. If our acquisition efforts are not successful, our business and financial results will suffer. If we are successful in our acquisition efforts, we expect that we will need to continue to manage and to expand multiple relationships with customers, Internet service providers and other third parties. We also expect that we will need to continue to improve our financial systems, procedures and controls and will need to expand, train and manage our workforce, particularly our information technology and sales and marketing staffs. ESIC has reported substantial losses in the recent past and we may not be profitable in the future. We have incurred significant losses since our inception in 1991, and, as of July 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $63.7 million. As per the requirements of Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 98-5 as modified by Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 00-27, we recorded a beneficial conversion feature amounting to $15.5 million upon the issuance of the Series A Notes and the Series B Notes (discussed later in this section) and assigned a separate fair market value as determined by the Black-Scholes option pricing method to the Warrants issued under the Purchase Agreement related to the Notes amounting to $7.0 million. These amounts, totaling $22.5 million, were recorded by proportionately reducing the face value of the Series A Notes and Series B Notes on the date of issuance with the offset to additional paid-in capital. We will accrete the $22.5 million through the profit and loss statement as interest expense using the interest rate method over the life of the Notes. This accretion will have a negative non-cash effect on our earnings. We may not be successful in competing against our competitors. We face a significant number of competitors, ranging from very large enterprises or divisions of very large companies to a number of relatively small organizations. These competitors are diverse in terms of their histories, business models, corporate strategies, financial strength, name recognition, company reputation, customer base and breadth of offerings. Many of our large competitors have more history, significantly greater financial resources, larger customer bases and more easily recognized names than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to changing technology and changes in customer requirements or be able to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and make more attractive offers to potential customers and employees, or be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their services than we can. New competition is emerging in the form of web services networks, collaborative applications, application service providers, e-marketplaces and integration broker suites. There can be no assurance that our product and service offerings will compete effectively and generate any significant revenues. We must continue to develop new products and services. If we do not keep pace with rapid technological changes, customer demands and intense competition, we will not be successful. Our market is characterized by changing technology, customer demands and intense competition. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our network infrastructure, customer support and document delivery systems and our web site are critical to our reputation and our ability to attract customers and maintain adequate customer service levels. If we cannot keep pace with these changes and maintain the performance and reliability of our network and customer service levels, our business will suffer. The Internet’s recent growth and the intense competition in our industry require us to continually develop strategic business and Internet solutions that enhance and improve the customer service features, functions and responsiveness of all of our existing or proposed services and that keep pace with competitive changes in information technology and customer requirements. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to keep pace with these changes, and if we are not successful in developing and marketing enhancements to all of our services or meeting customer demands, our business may suffer. 11 Table of Contents Outsourcing of our services may not prove to be a viable business. An important part of our business strategy is to leverage our existing global customer base and global network by continuing to provide our existing services and by offering these customers additional services in the future. Our success will depend on the development of viable markets for the outsourcing of all of our services, which is somewhat speculative. Outsourcing is one of the principal methods by which we will attempt to reach the size we believe is necessary to be successful. Security and the reliability of service, however, are likely to be of concern to enterprises and service providers deciding whether to outsource these services or to continue to provide them themselves. These concerns are likely to be particularly strong at larger businesses and service providers, which are better able to afford the costs of maintaining their own systems. While we intend to focus on outsourcing our services, we cannot be sure that we will be able to maintain or expand our business customer base. In addition, the sales cycle for many of these services is lengthy and could delay our ability to generate revenues. We have significant debt obligations, and we may be unable to meet the associated debt covenants over time. In connection with our sale of the Series A Notes, Series B Notes, Warrants and Additional Investment Rights to the York Entities, we incurred $70,105,416 in additional indebtedness. As of July 31, 2008, the ratio of our long-term debt to total capitalization is 78%. As a result of this leverage, our principal and interest obligations have increased substantially. The degree to which we are leveraged could adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes and could make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and competitive pressures. Our increased leverage could also adversely affect our liquidity, as a substantial portion of available cash from operations may have to be applied to meet debt service requirements and, in the event of a cash shortfall, we could be forced to reduce other expenditures and forego potential acquisitions to be able to meet such requirements. Under the York Purchase Agreement, we are subject to certain limitations, including limitations on our ability to incur additional debt or sell assets, make certain investments and acquisitions, grant liens and pay dividends and distributions. We are also subject to financial covenants on a quarterly basis, which include minimum requirements for recurring revenue, earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) and the ratio of EBITDA to interest expense. The York Purchase Agreement contains certain events of default (many of which are subject to applicable cure periods), including, among others, the failure to make payments when due, defaults under other contractual obligations, change of control and noncompliance with covenants. We may not be able to continuously satisfy these requirements in the future. If we fail to satisfy any of these requirements, the York Entities could call their loans immediately. In the event we fail to repay these obligations upon demand, the York Entities may file legal actions against us and foreclose on our assets, which may significantly disrupt, or even cause us to cease, our business. If we lose our net operating loss carryforward, our financial results will suffer. As of July 31, 2008, our net operating loss carryforward was approximately $84.1 million. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code contains rules that are designed to discourage persons from buying and selling the net operating losses of companies. These rules generally operate by focusing on ownership changes among stockholders owning directly or indirectly 5% or more of the common stock of a company or any change in ownership arising from a new issuance of stock by a company. In general, the rules limit the ability of a company to utilize net operating losses after a change of ownership of more than 50% of its common stock over a three-year period. Purchases of our class A common stock in amounts greater than specified levels could create a limitation on our ability to utilize our net operating losses for tax purposes in the future. We are currently subject to a limitation on the utilization of a portion of our net operating loss carryforward. The potential conversion of the notes issued in connection with our acquisition of ESC into shares of our class A common stock may result in severe limitations on our use of our existing net operating loss carryforward. Our financial performance could cause future write-downs of goodwill or other intangible assets in future periods. We adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, “Accounting for Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (SFAS No. 142) effective August 1, 2001. With the adoption of SFAS No. 142, goodwill is no longer amortized; however, we are required to perform an annual impairment review which could result in impairment write-downs to goodwill and/or other intangible assets. As of July 31, 2008, we had $40.2 million of goodwill and $27.7 million of other intangible assets on our balance sheet. 12 Table of Contents If we are unable to maintain or replace our existing VAN interconnect arrangements, our results of operations will suffer. We rely on many of our competitors to interconnect with our service to promote an “open community” so all businesses can take advantage of the efficiencies of EDI, no matter what network they choose as their provider. Although we have interconnect agreements with the major VAN providers, there can be no assurances that these agreements will not be terminated or will continue with acceptable terms. If terminated, we would have to find an acceptable alternative. If available, such an alternative could add significant operating costs to our business. We rely on third parties to provide our services, and any failure of such third parties could adversely affect our business. Failure of our third-party providers to provide adequate Internet, telecommunications and power services could result in significant losses of revenue. Our operations depend upon third parties for Internet access and telecommunications service. Frequent or prolonged interruptions of these services could result in significant losses of revenues. We have experienced outages in the past and could experience outages, delays and other difficulties due to system failures unrelated to our internal activities in the future. These types of occurrences could also cause users to perceive our services as not functioning properly and therefore cause them to use other methods to deliver and receive information. We have limited control over these third parties and cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain satisfactory relationships with any of them on acceptable commercial terms or that the quality of services that they provide will remain at the levels needed to enable us to conduct our business effectively. We are dependent on licensed technology and third party commercial partners. We license a significant amount of technology from third parties, including technology related to our Internet fax services, billing processes and databases. We also rely on third party commercial partners to provide services for our trading community enablement services, document capture and management services and some of our other services. We anticipate that we will need to license additional technology or to enter into additional commercial relationships to remain competitive. We may not be able to license these technologies or to enter into arrangements with prospective commercial partners on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Third-party licenses and strategic commercial relationships expose us to increased risks, including risks relating to the integration of new technology, the diversion of resources from the development of our own proprietary technology, a greater need to generate revenues sufficient to offset associated license or service fee costs, and the possible termination of or failure to renew an important license or other agreement by the third-party licensor or commercial partner. We may need to obtain additional financing on satisfactory terms to continue to compete successfully. If we are unable to obtain necessary future capital, our business will suffer. We may need to raise additional funds if competitive pressures or technological changes are greater than anticipated, if we are unable to increase revenue at anticipated rates, if our expenses increase significantly, if our customers delay payment of our receivables, or if we identify a suitable acquisition candidate that requires a cash outlay in order to complete the transaction. We cannot assure you that any additional financing will be available on reasonable terms or at all. Raising additional funds in the future by issuing securities could adversely affect our stockholders and negatively impact our operating results. The acquisition of ESC was financed through the issuance of debt securities, and the holders of the debt securities have a claim to our assets that will have priority over any claim of our stockholders. The interest on these debt securities will increase our costs and negatively impact our operating results. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of class A common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for class A common stock, the percentage ownership of our then-existing stockholders will decrease, and they may experience additional dilution. In addition, any convertible or exchangeable securities may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable to the holders than those of the class A common stock. We may need to upgrade some of our computer systems to accommodate increases in traffic and to accommodate increases in the usage of our services, but we may not be able to do so while maintaining our current level of service, or at all. We must continue to expand and adapt our computer systems as the number of customers and the amount of information they wish to transmit increases and as their requirements change and as we further develop our services. We may also decide to consolidate many of our data centers into a single location. If we cannot provide the necessary service while maintaining expected performance and possibly consolidating our data centers, our business would suffer and our ability to generate revenues through our services would be impaired. 13 Table of Contents Our computer systems may fail and interrupt our service. Our customers have in the past experienced interruptions in our services due to hardware failures and other computer system failures. These failures have resulted and may continue to result in significant disruptions to our service. Some of our operations have redundant switch-over capability. Although we have installed backup computers and implement procedures on other parts of our operations to reduce the impact of future malfunctions in these systems, the potential presence of single points of failure in our network increases the risk of service interruptions. Our computer and communications hardware is vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, flood, earthquake and similar events wherever they are located. Our services would be suspended for a significant period of time if any of our primary data centers was severely damaged or destroyed. We might also lose customer transaction documents and other customer files, causing significant customer dissatisfaction and possibly giving rise to claims for monetary damages. If we cannot successfully continue to expand our business outside of the United States, our revenues and operating results will be adversely affected. Our current and future customers are conducting their businesses internationally. As a result, one component of our business strategy is to expand our international marketing and sales efforts, and if we do not successfully continue to expand our business in this way, we may lose current and future customers. Our international operations are subject to additional risks, and our operating results may suffer if these risks are not properly managed. We operate in international markets and may not be able to compete effectively in these markets. We face significant risks inherent in conducting business internationally, such as: • uncertain demand in foreign markets for our services; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations; • differing technology standards; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; • economic instability and fluctuations in currency exchange rates and imposition of currency exchange controls; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • regulatory limitations on the activities in which we can engage and foreign ownership limitations on our ability to hold an interest in entities through which we wish to conduct business; • political instability, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, and reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • export restrictions; • terrorism; and • difficulties in enforcing contracts and potentially adverse consequences. If we cannot hire and retain highly qualified employees, our business and financial results will suffer. We are substantially dependent on the continued services and performance of our executive officers and other key employees. If we are unable to attract, assimilate and retain highly qualified employees, our management may not be able to effectively manage our business, exploit opportunities and respond to competitive challenges, and our business and financial results will suffer. Many of our competitors may be able to offer more lucrative compensation packages and higher-profile employment opportunities than we can. 14 Table of Contents We depend on our intellectual property, which may be difficult and costly to protect. If we fail to adequately protect our proprietary rights, competitors could offer similar products relying on technologies we developed, potentially harming our competitive position and decreasing our revenues. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights by limiting access to the distribution of our software, documentation and other proprietary information and by relying on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws. In addition, we enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and certain customers, vendors and strategic partners. In some circumstances, however, we may, if required by a business relationship, provide our licensees with access to our data model and other proprietary information underlying our licensed applications. Despite the precautions we take, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy aspects of our current or future products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of software is difficult, and some foreign laws do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as United States laws. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, any of which could be costly and could adversely affect our operating results. Intellectual property infringement claims against us could harm our business. Our business activities and our service offerings may infringe upon the proprietary rights of others and other parties may assert infringement claims against us. Any such claims and any resulting litigation could subject us to significant liability for damages and could invalidate our proprietary rights. We could be required to enter into royalty and licensing agreements, which may be costly or otherwise burdensome or which may not be available on terms acceptable to us. We must comply with costly reporting requirements. Under current SEC regulations pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX), we are required to prepare a report regarding internal controls over financial reporting. Because we are a non-accelerated filer, current SEC rules relieve us of the obligation to have management’s report on internal controls attested by our registered public accounting firm for this annual report. If our status changes, or if the SEC modifies the rules that relieve us of this obligation, however, we may be required to have management’s report on internal controls attested by our registered public accounting firm for the annual report we expect to file for our fiscal year ending July 31, 2009. If we were required to do so, our expenses associated with complying with this requirement would increase. For the fiscal year ended July 31, 2008, our costs of complying with SOX were approximately $465,000 and are expected to be approximately $375,000 in fiscal year 2009. We cannot give any assurance that we will be fully compliant when, or if, we are required to provide an attestation from our registered public accounting firm or that our compliance costs will not exceed our expectations. We may be subject to assessment of income, state sales or other taxes for which we may not have accrued. We have reserves for certain international, federal, state and local income and sales taxes, and we believe that we have accrued appropriately for these taxes. With our history of acquisitions, it is possible that liabilities may arise for the combined company that were not previously in place, or liabilities may exist of which we are not presently aware. In addition, tax jurisdictions may disagree with our methods of interpreting, assessing and remitting various taxes. In the event that actual results differ from our reserves, we may need to record additional expense that could have a material effect on our reported earnings. We may have to use significant resources indemnifying our officers and directors or paying for damages caused by their conduct. The Delaware General Corporation Law provides for broad indemnification by corporations of their officers and directors and permits a corporation to exculpate its directors from liability for their actions. Our bylaws and certificate of incorporation implement this indemnification and exculpation to the fullest extent permitted under this law as it currently exists or as it may be amended in the future. Consequently, subject to this law and to some limited exceptions in our certificate of incorporation, none of our directors will be liable to us or to our stockholders for monetary damages resulting from conduct as a director. 15 Table of Contents Risks Relating to our Industry and the Internet and Online Commerce Aspects of Our Business Government regulation and legal uncertainties relating to the Internet could harm our business. Changes in the regulatory environment in the United States and other countries could decrease our revenues and increase our costs. The Internet is largely unregulated and the laws governing the Internet remain unsettled, even in areas where there has been some legislative action. It may take years to determine whether and how existing laws such as those governing intellectual property, privacy and taxation apply to the Internet. In addition, because of increasing popularity and use of the Internet, any number of laws and regulations may be adopted in the United States and other countries relating to the Internet or other online services covering issues such as user privacy, security, pricing and taxation, content and distribution. The cost of transmitting documents and data over the Internet could increase. We may not be able to increase our prices to cover these rising costs. Also, foreign and state laws and regulations relating to the provision of services over the Internet are still developing. If individual states or foreign countries impose taxes or laws that negatively impact services provided over the Internet, our cost of providing our services may increase. We believe that our services are “information services” under the Telecommunications Act of 1996 and existing precedent and, therefore, would not currently be subject to traditional U.S. telecommunication services regulation. However, while the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) historically has refrained from extensive regulation of entities that provide service using the Internet or IP, it has recently begun to impose at least some regulatory paradigms on these services as they increasingly are used as substitutes for traditional communications services. For example, the FCC already has required certain providers of voice over Internet Protocol (“VoIP”) telephony to provide enhanced 911 capability to their customers and to accommodate requests by law enforcement to permit electronic surveillance. These requirements are likely to create additional costs. In addition, the FCC is currently considering whether to impose certain obligations on providers of Internet-based and IP-based services generally. These potential rules could include requirements to ensure access for disabled persons, contribute to universal service funds, and pay for using the public telephone network. Any of these requirements, if applicable to a given service, could increase the cost of providing that service. The FCC is also examining whether and how to differentiate among Internet-based and IP-based services to determine which services should be subject to particular regulatory obligations. It cannot be predicted whether these rules will be adopted and, if so, whether they would be applied to our non-voice services. Moreover, although the FCC has indicated that it views certain Internet-based services as being interstate and, thus, subject to the protection of federal laws that warrant preemption of state efforts to impose traditional common carrier regulation on these services, the FCC’s efforts are currently under legal challenge, and we cannot predict the outcome of state efforts to regulate such services or the scope of federal policy to preempt these efforts. Apart from these issues, federal and state regulations could change in a manner that increases the contributions required by telecommunications carriers, which would in turn increase our costs in purchasing these telecommunications services. Because providers are authorized to pass their contribution costs on to their customers, our costs for telecommunications services that we purchase reflect these amounts. The contributions are currently calculated as a percentage of telecommunications services revenues. Alternative contribution methodologies, such as the imposition of a fee per telephone line, and other changes have been proposed that could increase these amounts and, thus, our costs in purchasing such telecommunications services. If adopted, these changes may in turn require us to raise the price of one or more of our services to our customers. No assurance can be given that we will be able to recover all or part of any increase in costs that may result from these changes if adopted by the FCC or that such changes will not otherwise adversely affect the demand for our services. Privacy concerns may prevent customers from using our services. Concerns about the security of online transactions, the security of data bases and the privacy of users may inhibit the growth of the Internet as a means of delivering business documents and data. We may need to incur significant expenses to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches. We rely upon encryption and authentication technology to provide secure transmission of confidential information and various firewall systems to protect our data bases and computer systems. If our security measures do not prevent security breaches, we could suffer operating losses, damage to our reputation, litigation and possible liability. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments that render current encryption technology outdated may result in a breach of our encryption and authentication technology and firewalls and could enable an outside party to steal proprietary information or interrupt our operations. We and our customers are subject to laws and regulations protecting personal and other confidential information in connection with the exchange of such information by these customers using our services. At present, in the United States, interactive Internet-based service providers have substantial legal protection for the transmission of third-party content that is infringing, defamatory, pornographic or otherwise illegal. We cannot guarantee that a U.S. court would not conclude that we do not qualify for these protections as an interactive service provider. We do not and cannot screen all of the content generated and received by users of our services or the recipients of messages delivered through our services. Some foreign governments, such as France and Germany, have enforced content-related laws and regulations against Internet service providers. 16 Table of Contents Domestic and foreign regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In connection with the deployment of Internet-capable nodes in countries throughout the world, we are required to satisfy a variety of foreign regulatory requirements. We intend to explore and seek to comply with these requirements on a country-by-country basis as the deployment of Internet-capable fax nodes continues. There can be no assurance that we will be able to satisfy the regulatory requirements in each of these countries, and the failure to satisfy these requirements may prevent us from installing Internet-capable fax nodes in these countries or require us to limit the functionality of these nodes. The failure to deploy a number of such nodes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our fax nodes and telex switches utilize encryption technology. The export of this encryption technology is regulated by the United States government. We have authority for the export of this encryption technology except to countries such as Cuba, Iran, Libya, North Korea, Syria and Sudan. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that this authority will not be revoked or modified at any time for any particular jurisdiction or in general. In addition, there can be no assurance that these export controls, either in their current form or as may be subsequently enacted, will not limit our ability to distribute our services outside of the United States or electronically. While we take precautions against unlawful exportation of our software, the global nature of the Internet makes it virtually impossible to effectively control the distribution of our services. Moreover, future Federal or state legislation or regulation may further limit levels of encryption or authentication technology. Any of these export restrictions, the unlawful exportation of our services or new legislation or regulation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The legal structure and scope of operations of our subsidiaries in some foreign countries may be subject to restrictions that could severely limit our ability to conduct business in these countries. To the extent that we develop or offer messaging or other services in foreign countries, we will be subject to the laws and regulations of those countries. The laws and regulations relating to the Internet and telecommunications services in many countries are evolving and in many cases are more burdensome than U.S. law and/or unclear as to their application. For example, in India, the Peoples Republic of China, and other countries, we may be subject to licensing requirements with respect to the activities in which we propose to engage, and we may also be subject to foreign ownership limitations or other approval requirements that preclude our ownership interests or limit our ownership interests to up to specified percentages of the entities through which we propose to conduct any regulated activities. If these limitations apply to our activities (including activities conducted through our subsidiaries), our opportunities to generate revenue will be reduced, our ability to compete successfully in these markets will be adversely affected, our ability to raise capital in the private and public markets may be adversely affected, and the value of our investments and acquisitions in these markets may decline. Moreover, to the extent we are limited in our ability to engage in certain activities or are required to contract for these services from a licensed or authorized third party, our costs of providing our services will increase and our ability to generate profits may be adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Class A Common Stock The market price of our class A common stock is likely to be highly volatile. During the 2008 fiscal year, the market price of our class A common stock has been volatile, ranging from a low of $2.40 to a high of $4.28, and will likely fluctuate substantially in the future. The market price of our class A common stock may fluctuate in response to variations in our quarterly operating results, changes in our financial condition, and any acquisitions, dispositions and other corporate developments we undertake or experience. In addition, the securities markets and, in particular the technology stock market sector, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations recently that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our class A common stock. Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect our stock price. In addition to our currently registered shares of class A common stock, with our sale of the Series A Notes, Series B Notes, Warrants and Additional Investment Rights to the York Entities, we may be required to register for resale under the Securities Act of an additional 30,541,631 shares of our class A common stock issuable to the York Entities upon conversion or exercise of the securities acquired by these entities pursuant to the York Purchase Agreement. The market price of our class A common stock and our ability to raise additional capital in the future through the sale of equity securities could be materially and adversely affected by sales of these shares or the perception that these sales could occur. 17 Table of Contents If there is not a significant demand for our class A common stock, it may make it difficult for investors to sell. The market for our class A common stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market may be illiquid, which would restrict the ability to sell shares of class A common stock and could result in increased volatility in the trading prices for our class A common stock. The price at which our class A common stock will trade in the future cannot be predicted and will be determined by the market. The price may be influenced by many factors, including investors’ perceptions of our business, our financial condition, operating results and prospects, the use of the Internet for business purposes and general economic and market conditions. Our Board of Directors can issue preferred stock with rights adverse to the holders of class A common stock. Our Board of Directors is authorized, without further stockholder approval, to determine the provisions of and to issue up to 4,979,575 shares of preferred stock. Issuance of preferred shares with rights to dividends and other distributions, voting rights or other rights superior to the class A common stock could be adverse to the holders of class A common stock. In addition, issuance of preferred shares could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing an unsolicited change in control of our company, or could impose various procedural and other requirements that could make it more difficult for holders of our class A common stock to effect certain corporate actions, including the replacement of incumbent directors and the completion of transactions opposed by the incumbent Board of Directors. The rights of the holders of our class A common stock would be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As of July 31, 2008, we have no unresolved staff comments. 