D. RISK FACTORS WE DO NOT HAVE SUFFICIENT CASH RESOURCES AVAILABLE TO FUND OUR CURRENT LEVEL OF ACTIVITIES FOR THE NEXT 12 MONTHS FROM THE DATE OF THIS FILING. OVER THE MEDIUM TERM, WE WILL NEED TO SATISFY SUBSTANTIAL CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS TO PURSUE OUR DEVELOPMENT AND COMMERCIALIZATION STRATEGIES. At currently projected rates of expenditure, our Directors believe that we do not have sufficient cash resources available to fund our current level of activities for the next 12 months from the date of this filing. Accordingly, we will be required to secure further funds before then, to ensure our continued viability. There can be no assurance that any future equity or other fundraising would be successful. A general lack of market interest in providing further financing to biotechnology companies, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise funds. If we do secure additional capital through a public equity offering, dilution to our then existing shareholders may result. If we are unable to secure additional funds when we need them, we may be required to delay, reduce or eliminate some or all of our programs. We may also be forced to license compounds or technology to others that we would prefer to develop internally until a later and potentially more lucrative stage. If we are required to raise additional funds through collaborations and other licensing arrangements, we may have to relinquish our rights to some of our compounds or technologies or grant licenses on unfavorable terms. Over the medium term our future capital requirements to continue the development of our technologies and to seek to complete the commercialization of our drug candidates will be substantial and will be influenced by many factors. Such factors include the amount of milestone payments which we may receive under collaboration, licensing or other agreements, the progress and cost of research and development projects, especially the Phase III program for TransMID(TM), our lead product candidate, and expenses which may be required for the filing, defense and enforcement of patent rights. If we are unable to secure adequate financing over the medium term, we will not be able to pursue our product development and commercialization strategies as currently planned. WE DO NOT HAVE ENOUGH CASH TO COMPLETE OUR PHASE III CLINICAL PROGRAM FOR TRANSMID(TM), OR TO BEGIN THE PHASE II TRIAL FOR TA-NIC With respect to our Phase III program for our lead product candidate, TransMID(TM), patient dosing began in July 2004 and recruitment is ongoing. Since the recruitment of patients into the trial started later than planned, we have to date not recruited as many patients as originally intended. However, the rate of recruitment is expected to increase as more centers come on board. We have taken various measures, including extending the number of trial centers, in order to accelerate the rate of recruitment. If we are not successful in achieving the required rate of recruitment of patients into the trial, or if survival in the trial exceeds the assumptions made, the interim review is likely to be delayed beyond the first half of 2006, the currently anticipated completion date. Any such delay could have a material adverse effect on our prospects for completing the trial and eventually developing a commercial product and, accordingly, on the prospects of the Company generally. In particular, if recruitment were to be slower than expected, management has identified certain remedial actions, which may need to be taken within the next three to six months, and could include delaying the implementation of the planned Phase II trial of TA-NIC if no external funding for the trial is identified, and a reduction in staff numbers and other overheads. 6 OUR COMPANY HAS A HISTORY OF ACCUMULATED LOSSES Xenova is a biopharmaceutical company that has a history of operating losses. As at December 31, 2004, our accumulated losses were (pound)143 million ($274 million). We expect to continue to incur operating losses over a number of years and may never be profitable. There is no assurance that we will ever achieve significant revenues or profitability, and thus there is also no assurance that we will ever pay dividends to shareholders. This could impair our ability to sustain operations and to obtain any required additional funds. RAPID TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT US The biopharmaceutical industry is rapidly evolving and developments are likely to continue at a rapid pace. Technological competition from existing pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies and others diversifying into the field is intense and expected to increase. Additionally, there can be no assurance that we will be able to keep pace with technological developments. If we do not keep pace with important technological developments, we may be unable to commercialize our products successfully. WE MAY ENCOUNTER SIGNIFICANT TECHNICAL, REGULATORY AND COMMERCIAL OBSTACLES IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCTS We are involved in the discovery and development of pharmaceutical products for our behalf and in collaboration with other pharmaceutical companies. Our products are at varying stages of development and we have not yet completed the full clinical development of any of our products. Significant further investment will be required on an ongoing basis to undertake research and development. Laboratory and clinical testing and regulatory approvals will be required prior to the licensing or sale of any of our drug candidates. Pre-clinical studies and clinical trials may disclose significant technical obstacles that need to be overcome before obtaining required regulatory approvals. Results of pre-clinical studies are not necessarily indicative of results that will be obtained in human clinical trials. No assurance can be given that our product development efforts will be successful, that any potential product will be safe and efficacious, that required regulatory approvals will be obtained, that our products will be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at an acceptable cost, or that any products, if introduced, will achieve market acceptance. Any products that may be developed through our research and development programs will not be commercially available for several years, if at all. Furthermore, there is a substantial risk of delay in the completion of clinical trials or of adverse, incomplete or inconclusive results from clinical trials, which may substantially delay, or halt entirely, any further development of our drugs. The delay in the completion of clinical trials may arise from a number of factors including the rate of recruitment of patients into the trials. OBTAINING REGULATORY APPROVAL FOR THE MANUFACTURE AND/OR MARKETING OF PRODUCTS IS COSTLY, TIME CONSUMING AND NOT CERTAIN TO BE SUCCESSFUL The clinical evaluation, manufacture and marketing of our drug candidates and our ongoing research and development activities are subject to regulation by government and other regulatory agencies in the countries where we or any of our potential licensees or collaborators intend to test or market products. Of particular importance is the requirement, existing in most countries, to obtain and maintain regulatory approval for a product from the relevant regulatory authority to enable such product to be marketed in that country. Such approval requires the clinical evaluation of data relating to the quality, safety and efficacy of a product for its proposed use. Many countries, including all members of the European Union and the United States, have high standards of technical appraisal and, accordingly, the clinical trial process is, in most cases, lengthy. The time taken to obtain such approval in particular countries varies, but it can be up to five years or more from the date of application. There can be no assurance that any of our drug candidates will successfully complete the clinical trial process or that regulatory approvals to manufacture and market our drug candidates will ultimately be obtained. Furthermore, each regulatory authority may impose its own requirements (by, for instance, restricting a product's indicated uses) and may refuse to grant, or may require additional data before granting, an approval, even though the relevant product may have been approved by another country's regulatory authority. If regulatory approval is obtained, the product and its manufacturer are subject to continual review and there can be no assurance that such approval will not be withdrawn or restricted. If there are changes in the application of legislation or regulatory policies or problems are discovered with the product or the manufacturer or if 7 we fail to comply with regulatory requirements, the regulators could impose fines against us, impose restrictions on the product, its manufacturer, or us, require us to recall or remove a product from the market, suspend or withdraw its regulatory approvals, require us to conduct additional clinical trials, require us to change our product labeling, or require us to submit additional marketing applications. If any of these events occur, our ability to sell our products may be impaired and we may incur substantial additional expense to comply with the regulatory requirements. In addition, in certain countries, even after regulatory approval, we are still required to obtain price reimbursement approval. This may delay the marketing of our products or, when approval cannot be obtained, mean that the product cannot be sold at all. OUR PRODUCTS MAY NEVER BE COMMERCIALLY SUCCESSFUL There is a possibility that any product that we are eventually authorized to bring to market may not be commercially successful. Our success depends on acceptance of our products by the market, including by the medical community and third party payers, and consequently our progress may be adversely affected if we are unable to achieve market acceptance of our products. None of our products is, or has been commercialized, and all are still in the process of clinical development. In addition, there can be no assurance that our product candidates will be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at an acceptable cost. WE ARE HIGHLY DEPENDENT ON OUR COLLABORATORS FOR FUTURE REVENUES AND SUCCESS, BUT OUR RELATIONSHIPS WITH COLLABORATORS ALSO INVOLVE SIGNIFICANT FINANCIAL RISKS Under our business and development strategy, a significant part of our future revenues is to be derived from licensing and collaboration agreements with third parties. There is no assurance that we will be able to negotiate commercially acceptable licensing or other agreements for our as yet un-licensed drug candidates or for the future exploitation of our technologies. There is also no assurance that we will be able to reserve any territorial marketing rights in any such licensing or other agreements. In addition, there can be no assurance that any company which enters into an agreement with us will not pursue alternative technologies either on its own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors, as a means of developing treatments targeted by our products. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that we will be able to ensure that our collaborators will devote sufficient resources to collaborations with us or that our drug candidates can be developed and commercialized without these collaborators. Our agreements with collaborators and other third parties may contain indemnities which have been given by us and which relate to costs, damages, losses and other liabilities connected with matters such as infringement, unauthorized use of patents and other rights owned by other parties, product liability and the use of information and materials provided by us. There can be no assurance that any claim by a collaborator or other third party under one or more of these indemnities would not materially and adversely affect our business. If we are unsuccessful in raising additional funds necessary for the continued development of our products portfolio, existing collaborators and partners may no longer be either willing or able to continue to support and develop these products. In the event a partner or collaborator decides to withdraw their support, we may be required to repay or refund amounts we have received through milestone payments and/or other forms of product development support from partners or collaborators. These repayments or refunds would have a negative impact on our financial position. OUR CURRENT SUPPLY, MANUFACTURING AND SALES CAPABILITIES ARE LIMITED OR NON-EXISTENT Our sources of supply for the components we need to conduct our development work may be limited to a restricted number of suppliers. These suppliers may be unwilling or unable to meet our future needs. Replacing one of these suppliers or finding additional suppliers may result in delays to our development work and our clinical trials. Where we are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture of certain drug candidates or future products, our ability to procure their manufacture in a manner which complies with regulatory requirements may be constrained, and our ability to develop and deliver such material on a timely and competitive basis may be adversely affected. 8 We also currently have no pharmaceutical product marketing or sales capabilities. To the extent that we reserve the right to market some or all of our future products, significant additional expenditures, management resources and time will be required to develop a marketing and sales force. OUR COMPETITORS MAY HAVE GREATER RESOURCES AND SUPERIOR PRODUCTS AND MAY LAUNCH COMPETITIVE PRODUCTS BEFORE WE DO Our competitors include, amongst others, major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies having substantially greater resources than us. There is no assurance that our competitors will not succeed in developing technologies and products that are more effective or economical than any of those being developed by us or which would render our technologies and/or products obsolete and/or otherwise uncompetitive. Although we have collaborative arrangements with several of these companies, these arrangements usually do not prevent the collaborators from competing with us or from collaborating with our competitors. Several companies are working on some of the molecular or cellular targets we have selected. Further, several companies are engaged in the research and development of therapeutic products that may compete with our and our collaborator's products. GOVERNMENT AND THIRD-PARTY REIMBURSEMENT POLICIES AND TREATMENT GUIDELINES MAY IMPEDE OUR ABILITY TO COMMERCIALIZE OUR PRODUCTS SUCCESSFULLY Our and our partners' ability to commercialize products also depends on the extent to which reimbursement for the cost of such products and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities (including the United Kingdom National Health Service), private health coverage insurers and other organizations. There is uncertainty as to the reimbursement status of newly-approved healthcare products, and there is no assurance that adequate health administration or third party coverage will be available to us or our partners to obtain satisfactory price levels. In addition, there is increasing pressure from certain governments to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new therapeutic products, and by refusing in some cases to provide any coverage for uses of approved products for disease conditions for which the relevant regulatory agency has not granted marketing approval. All governments reserve the right to amend their policies in relation to the full, partial or non-reimbursement of the price of pharmaceutical products. These policies are subject to change at any time in any country and can impact profoundly the pharmaceutical industry as a whole or in part. As with all other pharmaceutical groups, we are subject to any such governmental policies and actions. WE MAY NOW OR IN THE FUTURE BE IN VIOLATION OF CERTAIN LAWS RELATING TO RESTRICTIONS OF COMPETITION, WHICH COULD RESULT IN SIGNIFICANT FINES IMPOSED ON US Our activities are subject to competition law, including Article 81 and Article 82 (ex Articles 85 and 86) of the Treaty of Rome. Article 81 prohibits agreements (as well as arrangements and concerted practices) which restrict competition within the European Union and which may affect trade between European Union Member States unless the criteria for exemption in Article 81(3) are met. Similar rules apply in the broader European Economic Area. Provisions of agreements restricting competition within the meaning of Article 81(1) and which do not meet the Article 81(3) criteria are void and unenforceable - in certain circumstances this may make the whole agreement fail. The European Commission may impose fines on parties entering into such agreements of up to 10% of their respective worldwide turnover in the preceding business year. Persons who have suffered loss by reason of the anti-competitive restrictions may claim for damages against the parties. We have to determine for ourselves if agreements to which we are a party infringe Article 81(1) and if so whether the criteria for an exemption under Article 81(3) are met. Since 01 May 2004, Article 81(1) and 81(3) are both directly enforceable by the European Commission, European Community Courts and the national courts and designated national competition authorities of each European Union Member State. Block exemptions continue to apply which means that agreements falling within the terms of a relevant block exemption are exempt from the application of Article 81(1). The European Commission has issued guidelines setting out guidance on the application of block exemptions and more general principles to assist in the assessment of agreements. Provisions of a number of licensing and collaboration agreements to which we are a party are arguably restrictive of competition under Article 81(1). This may also be the case with future marketing and distribution agreements entered into by us. We determine on an agreement-by-agreement basis whether a block exemption from the application of Article 81(1) applies to an 9 agreement and, if it does not, whether the agreement satisfies the criteria for exemption under Article 81(3) from the application of Article 81(1). Article 82 prohibits any abuse by one or more undertakings of a dominant position within the common market or in a substantial part of it in so far as it affects trade between Member States. If a company is found to be in a dominant position conduct which amounts to exploitative or exclusionary behavior without objective justification may be found to be an abuse within the meaning of Article 82. The European Commission may impose fines on an undertaking abusing a dominant position of up to 10% of its worldwide turnover in the preceding business year. Persons who have suffered loss by reason of the abusive conduct may claim for damages. Although we are likely to face strong competition from major biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies there can be no assurance that we will not be regarded as having a dominant position in the future on the basis of one of our innovative products or technologies for which there is no substitute in a given market. The Directors are mindful that should we ever be dominant it would have specific obligations towards our customers and competitors and would have to ensure that our conduct does not amount to an abuse. A regime which is broadly similar to the current European Union regime operates in the United Kingdom under the Competition Act 1998. Again companies are responsible for assessing competition law risks associated with their agreements or conduct. Parties infringing the Competition Act 1998 may be fined (fines may be up to 10% of worldwide turnover) and provisions (or the whole agreement) may be void and unenforceable and third parties may bring damages claims. The principal difference is that under the Competition Act there is no need for an effect on trade between European Union Member States, rather the need is for an effect on trade within the U.K. IF WE FAIL TO OBTAIN EFFECTIVE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PROTECTION FOR OUR PRODUCTS, COMPETITORS MAY BE ABLE TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF OUR EFFORTS. WE MAY ALSO BE SUBJECT TO INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY CLAIMS. IN ADDITION, OUR RIGHTS TO USE CERTAIN INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY MAY BE RESTRICTED BY AGREEMENT Our commercial success depends to a great extent on our ability and/or that of our licensors to obtain effective patent protection for products in Europe, the U.S. and other countries and to preserve the confidentiality of our own and our collaborators' know-how. We may not be able to develop products which are patentable, and any patents we may obtain may not be sufficiently broad in their scope to provide protection for our intellectual property rights and exclude competitors with similar technology. There is no assurance that obligations to maintain our or our collaborators' know-how will not be breached or otherwise become known in a manner which provides us with no recourse. Patent applications, in general, are not published until 18 months after the date of priority applications, and in the U.S. some are not published until the time of grant. Details of new discoveries tend to become public knowledge only some time after the actual discovery and we cannot be certain that we or our licensors were the first to make the inventions covered by each pending application or that we or our licensors were the first to file patent applications for such inventions. No assurance can be given that any patent application will ultimately be granted. Rights of ownership over, and rights to license and use, intellectual property depend upon a number of factors, including the circumstances under which the intellectual property was created and the provisions of any agreements and other arrangements covering such intellectual property. In relation to certain contractual arrangements and in making patent applications we have relied upon, and will continue to rely upon, information and obligations in these respects provided by third parties. If the information which is or has been provided to us is inaccurate or incomplete or if such third parties breach their contractual obligations, if any, to us, this may affect our entitlement to be granted patents or to be licensed patents from others particularly in relation to those programs in which patent applications have not yet proceeded to grant or have only recently been granted. There can be no assurance that this would not have a material and adverse effect on our business. Where our right to use intellectual property is by way of a license or an option to take a license, such licenses may restrict our rights to certain fields of use or product applications. Furthermore, such licenses may be wholly or partly terminable or such options may be lost if certain circumstances arise, for example, if we fail to meet agreed performance targets. Similarly, where we own intellectual property, we may have agreed to restrict ourselves in the use of such intellectual property to certain fields of use or product applications and may have granted or agreed to grant or reserve to collaborators and other third parties the right to use such intellectual property in other 10 fields of use or product applications. In addition, if certain circumstances arise, for instance if we fail to meet agreed performance targets or no longer wish to maintain or exploit such intellectual property, a collaborator or other third party may have the right or an option to be granted ownership or a license over such intellectual property whilst giving limited, if any, compensation to us. If there is a dispute over intellectual property, we may incur substantial costs. We may have to initiate litigation to enforce our patent and license rights. If our competitors file patent applications that claim technology also claimed by us, we may have to participate in interference or opposition proceedings to determine the priority of invention. An adverse outcome could subject us to significant liabilities and require us to obtain appropriate licenses under these patents or cease and/or alter certain activities or processes, or develop or obtain alternative technology. We could incur substantial costs in any litigation or other proceeding relating to patent rights, even if it is resolved in our favor. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex litigation more effectively or for a longer time than we can because of their substantially greater resources. In addition, uncertainties relating to any patent, pending patent or intellectual property litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to bring a drug candidate to market, enter into collaborations in respect of the disputed or other drug candidates, or raise additional funds. WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS AND MAY NOT HAVE ADEQUATE INSURANCE TO PROTECT OUR BUSINESS FROM BEING ADVERSELY AFFECTED FROM SUCH CLAIMS Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks which are inherent in research and development, pre-clinical studies, clinical trials, manufacturing, marketing and the use of human therapeutic products. In addition, it may be necessary for us to secure certain levels of insurance as a condition to the conduct of clinical trials. There can be no assurance that future necessary insurance coverage will be available to us at an acceptable cost, if at all, or that, in the event of any claim, the level of insurance carried by us now or in the future will be adequate or that a product liability or other claim would not materially and adversely affect the business. COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL AND SAFETY REGULATIONS IS COSTLY We are subject to environmental and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the use of hazardous material. The cost of compliance with these, and future, regulations is substantial. Despite our precautions for handling and disposing of such materials, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. In the event of such an accident, resulting liabilities could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. THE LOSS OF KEY EMPLOYEES COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS The loss of key employees could weaken our scientific and management capabilities, adversely affecting our ability to achieve planned development objectives and business. We are significantly dependent on certain scientific and management personnel. We will endeavor to ensure that the principal members of our management and scientific team are suitably incentivized but the retention of such staff cannot be guaranteed. Our business is highly dependent on employees who have an in-depth and long-term understanding of their companies' technologies, products, programs and collaborative relationships. The loss of these key employees and our inability to recruit new employees to replace them could have a negative impact on our business and prospects. PERSONS OWNING ORDINARY SHARES AND WARRANTS MAY BE SUBJECT TO SUBSTANTIAL PRICE FLUCTUATIONS Our outstanding ADRs, Ordinary Shares and Warrants may fluctuate in value substantially. The share price of publicly traded biotechnology and emerging pharmaceutical companies can be highly volatile. The price at which our securities will be quoted and the price which investors may realize for their securities will be influenced by a large number of factors, which could include the performance of both our and our competitors' research and development programs, termination of collaborations by us or our partners, large purchases or sales of our shares, currency fluctuations, legislative changes in the healthcare environment and general economic conditions. 11 OUR AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS MAY BE DELISTED FROM THE NASDAQ NATIONAL MARKET Our American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) are quoted on the NASDAQ National Market (the NNM). If we were to fail to meet the NNM maintenance criteria we could be de-listed from the NNM. In such an event, persons holding ADRs who wished to trade such ADRs on the London Stock Exchange (LSE) would first be required to convert their ADRs into Ordinary Shares through the facilities provided by our Depositary, the Bank of New York. The Bank of New York currently charges investors a fee of $5 for each 100 ADRs converted into Ordinary Shares. U.S. PERSONS OWNING ADRS MAY NOT BE ABLE TO BENEFIT FROM THEIR PRE-EMPTIVE RIGHTS IN FUTURE ISSUANCES OF ORDINARY SHARES In the case of an allotment of Ordinary Shares for cash, our existing Shareholders are entitled to pre-emptive rights pursuant to Section 89 of the U.K. Companies Act 1985, unless waived by a special resolution of the Shareholders at a general meeting. If we allot Ordinary Shares for cash in the future and pre-emptive rights are not waived, holders of Ordinary Shares outside the United Kingdom may not be able to exercise their pre-emptive rights for Ordinary Shares unless we decide to comply with applicable local laws and regulations. In the case of holders in the United States, a registration statement under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 must be effective with respect to such rights, or an exemption from the registration requirements thereunder must be available. We intend to evaluate at the time of any rights or similar offering the costs and potential liabilities associated with any such registration statement or an exemption from registration, as well as the indirect benefits to us of enabling holders in the United States of our ADRs and Ordinary Shares to exercise any pre-emptive rights and any other factors we consider appropriate at the time, and then to make a decision as to how to proceed and whether to file such a registration statement. There can be no assurance that any registration statement would be filed or that an exemption would be available to enable our holders in the United States to exercise the pre-emptive rights nor can there be any assurance that steps can or will be taken to permit holders of ADRs and Ordinary Shares in the United States to receive any proceeds in respect thereof or other amounts relating thereto. OUR U.S. SHAREHOLDERS COULD SUFFER ADVERSE TAX CONSEQUENCES IF WE ARE CHARACTERIZED AS A PASSIVE FOREIGN INVESTMENT COMPANY (PFIC). If, for any taxable year, the portion of our income characterized as "passive" or of our assets that produce "passive" income exceeds levels established under U.S. federal income tax regulations, we may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to our shareholders who are subject to U.S. taxation. U.S. persons should consult with their own U.S. tax advisors with respect to the U.S. tax consequences of investing in our shares or our ADRs. In the event we raise substantial additional capital which is held as short-term deposits and investments or cash at bank and in hand, we may be characterized as a PFIC for the year ended December 31, 2005, or for future years. See Item 10 - "Additional Information - Taxation - U.S. Taxation of U.S. Holders". 