Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a variety of risks, including the risks described below, which we believe are the most significant risks and uncertainties facing our business. However, they are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or not described below may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted and our future growth could be impacted as well. The current worldwide financial crisis and economic downturn may likely affect our customer base and suppliers and could materially affect our backlog and profits. The current worldwide financial crisis has reduced the availability of liquidity and credit, including letters of credit and surety bonds, to fund or support the continuation and expansion of industrial business operations worldwide. Recent financial market conditions have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, and have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. Continued disruption of the credit markets could adversely affect our customers’ or our own letter of credit and surety bonding capacity, which support the continuation and expansion of projects worldwide and could result in contract cancellations or suspensions or project delays. If one or more of our suppliers or subcontractors experiences difficulties that result in a reduction or interruption in supply to us, or they fail to meet any of our manufacturing requirements, our business could be adversely impacted until we are able to secure alternative sources, if any. Furthermore, our ability to expand our business would be limited if, in the future, we are unable to increase our bonding capacity or our credit facility on favorable terms or at all. These disruptions could lead to a lower demand for our services and could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations or the trading price of our common stock. The U.S. government’s proposed plan to address the financial crises may not be effective to stabilize the financial markets or to increase the availability of credit. In response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, legislation was enacted that provides the U.S. Treasury the authority to, among other things, purchase mortgage-backed and other securities from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets. Since enactment of the legislation, the capital markets have continued to experience extreme levels of volatility and the credit markets have not yet shown any significant increase in the availability of credit. There can be no assurance what impact this legislation ultimately will have on the financial markets. If actions taken pursuant to the legislation are not successful in stabilizing the financial markets and increasing the availability of credit, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations or the trading price of our common stock. Our business segments operate in highly competitive markets. Many of our competitors, primarily in our Electrical and Industrial Products Segment, are significantly larger and have substantially more resources than we do. Competition is based on a number of factors, including price. Certain of our competitors may have lower cost structures and may, therefore, be able to provide their products and services at lower pricing than we are able to provide. We cannot be certain that our competitors will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality. Similarly, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position within our industries, maintain our customer base at current levels or increase our customer base. 5 Our business segments are sensitive to economic downturns. If the general level of economic activity deteriorates from current levels, our customers may delay or cancel new projects. If there is a reduction in demand for our products or services, as a result of a downturn in the general economy, there could be a material adverse effect on price levels and the quantity of goods and services purchased, therefore adversely impacting revenues and results from operations. A number of factors, including financing conditions and potential bankruptcies in the industries we serve, could adversely affect our customers and their ability or willingness to fund capital expenditures in the future and pay for past services. International and political events may adversely affect our Electrical and Industrial Products Segment. A portion of the revenues from our Electrical and Industrial Products Segment are from international markets. The occurrence of any of the risks described below could have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, cash flows and financial condition: · political and economic instability; · social unrest, acts of terrorism, force majeure, war or other armed conflict; · inflation; · currency fluctuation, devaluations and conversion restrictions; · governmental activities that limit or disrupt markets, restrict payments or limit the movement of funds; and · trade restrictions and economic embargoes by the United States or other countries. Fluctuations in the price and supply of raw materials and natural gas for our business segments may adversely affect our operations. We purchase a wide variety of raw materials for our Electrical and Industrial Products Segment to manufacture our products, including steel, aluminum and copper. Unanticipated increases in raw material requirements or price increases could increase production costs and adversely affect profitability. In our Galvanizing Service Segment, zinc and natural gas represent a large portion of our cost of sales. The prices of zinc and natural gas are highly volatile. The following factors, which are beyond our control, affect the price of raw materials and natural gas for our business segments: supply and demand; freight costs and transportation availability; inventory levels; trade duties and taxes; and labor disputes. We seek to maintain operating margins by attempting to increase the price of our products and services in response to increased costs, but may not be successful in passing these price increases through to our customers. Our dependence upon fixed-price contracts for our Electrical and Industrial Products Segment could adversely affect our business. We currently generate, and expect to continue to generate, a significant portion of our revenues under fixed price contracts. We must estimate the costs of completing a particular project to bid for fixed-price contracts. The actual cost of labor and materials, however, may vary from the costs we originally estimated. Depending on the size of a particular project, variations from estimated cost could have a significant impact on our operating results for any fiscal year. Our compliance with various governmental regulations and environmental risks may increase our costs. Our business is subject to numerous federal, state, provincial, local and foreign laws and regulations, including regulations, primarily in our Galvanizing Services Segment, with respect to air emissions, storm water runoff and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment, and disposal of waste materials. Although we believe we are substantially in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, legal requirements are frequently changed and subject to interpretation, and the presently unpredictable ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements could adversely impact our operations. We may be required to make significant expenditures to comply with governmental laws and regulations. Existing laws or regulations, as currently interpreted or reinterpreted in the future, or future laws or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 6 Our acquisition strategy involves a number of risks. We intend to pursue growth through the pursuit of opportunities to acquire companies or assets that will enable us to expand our product and service offerings. We routinely review potential acquisitions. However, we may be unable to implement this growth strategy if we cannot reach agreement on potential strategic acquisitions on acceptable terms or for other reasons. Moreover, our acquisition strategy involves certain risks, including: · difficulties in the integration of operations and systems; · the termination of relationships by key personnel and customers of the acquired company; · a failure to add additional employees to handle the increased volume of business; · additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning, treasury management and financial reporting; · risks and liabilities from our acquisitions, some of which may not be discovered during our due diligence; · a disruption of our ongoing business or an inability of our ongoing business to receive sufficient management attention; and · a failure to realize the cost savings or other financial benefits we anticipated. Future acquisitions may require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available on attractive terms. Our use of percentage-of-completion accounting in the Electrical and Industrial Products Segment could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profits. As discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” and in the notes to our consolidated financial statements, a portion of our revenues is recognized on the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. The percentage-of-completion accounting practice we use results in our recognizing contract revenues and earnings ratably over the contract term in proportion to our incurrence of contract costs. The earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract revenues, costs and profitability. Contract losses are recognized in full when determined, and contract profit estimates are adjusted based on ongoing reviews of contract profitability. Actual collection of contract amounts or change orders could differ from estimated amounts and could result in a reduction or elimination of previously recognized earnings. In certain circumstances, it is possible that such adjustments could be significant. We may not be able to fully realize the revenue value reported in our backlog for our Electrical and Industrial Products Segment. We have a backlog of work in our Electrical and Industrial Products Segment. Orders included in our backlog are represented by customer purchase orders and contracts, which we believe to be firm. Backlog develops as a result of new business secured, which represents the revenue value of new project commitments received by us during a given period. Backlog consists of projects which have either (1) not yet been started or (2) are in progress and are not yet complete. In the latter case, the revenue value reported in backlog is the remaining value associated with work that has not yet been completed. From time to time, projects are cancelled that appeared to have a high certainty of going forward at the time they were recorded as new business is taken. In the event of a project cancellation, we may be reimbursed for certain costs but typically have no contractual right to the total revenue reflected in our backlog. In addition to being unable to recover certain direct costs, we may also incur additional costs resulting from underutilized assets if projects are cancelled. 7 Our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our quarterly results may be materially and adversely affected by: · the timing and volume of work under new agreements; · general economic conditions; · the budgetary spending patterns of customers; · variations in the margins of projects performed during any particular quarter; · losses experienced in our operations not otherwise covered by insurance; · a change in the demand or production of our products and our services caused by severe weather conditions; · a change in the mix of our customers, contracts and business; · a change in customer delivery schedule; · increases in design and manufacturing costs; and · abilities of customers to pay their invoices owed to us. Accordingly, our operating results in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results that you can expect for any other quarter or for the entire year. We may be unsuccessful at generating internal growth. Our ability to generate internal growth will be affected by, among other factors, our ability to: · attract new customers, internationally and domestically; · increase the number or size of projects performed for existing customers; · hire and retain employees; and · increase volume utilizing our existing facilities. Many of the factors affecting our ability to generate internal growth may be beyond our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies will be successful or that we will be able to generate cash flow sufficient to fund our operations and to support internal growth. If we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to achieve internal growth, expand our operations or grow our business. The departure of key personnel could disrupt our business. We depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers and senior management. We cannot be certain that any individual will continue in such capacity for any particular period of time. The loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees, could negatively impact our ability to manage our business. Our business requires skilled labor, and we may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees. Our ability to maintain our productivity and profitability will be limited by our ability to employ, train and retain skilled personnel necessary to meet our requirements. We may experience shortages of qualified personnel. We cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain an adequately skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy or that our labor expense will not increase as a result of shortage in the supply of skilled personnel. Labor shortages or increased labor costs could impair our ability to maintain our business or grow our revenues. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There were no unresolved SEC staff comments as of February 28, 2009. 8 