Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider the following factors in evaluating our business or an investment in our class A common stock. If any of the following or other risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our class A common stock could decline. Risks Relating to Our Company We may not remain profitable in the future. We have incurred significant losses since the Company was founded in 1991, and, as of July 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $82.7 million. We realized profitability for the first time in the fiscal year ending July 31, 2005 and have remained so since. However, there can be no assurances that we may not incur losses again in the future. We must continue to grow our business in order to remain competitive. Over the past year, the VAN business has remained significantly price competitive. Our major competitors appear to be restructuring their VAN operations to reduce their overhead and other costs to better compete against Internet-based networks such as our ICC.NET service. While we have been successful in maintaining our margins and we have increased the volume of data transmitted through our VAN, we have experienced price erosion in competing for larger customers. Although we expect to continue to add new customers and increase the volume of data transmitted through our service, we do not expect our revenue from VAN services to continue to grow as rapidly as in the past. If our revenues grow at a slower rate than we anticipate, or decrease and we are unable to adjust spending in a timely manner or if our expenses increase without commensurate increases in revenues, our operating results will suffer and we may again report losses. 11 If we are not successful in selling our products and services, our results of operations will suffer. While our primary focus in the past has been on growing our ICC.NET VAN service, we have attempted to diversify by acquiring Electronic Commerce Systems in June 2004, the MEC operations of Inovis International, Inc. in March 2005 and Enable Corp. in May 2006. However, the success of our services depends to a large extent on the future of business-to-business electronic commerce and our ability to effectively compete in the marketplace. In particular, our success depends on the number of customers that subscribe to our services, the volume of the data, documents or other information they send or retrieve and the price we are able to charge for these services in light of competitive pressures. In connection with the assimilation of our new customers acquired from the MEC operation and the Enable acquisition, we anticipate to see attrition to these newly acquired customer bases due to the seasonal trends, integration difficulties, and customer defections to alternative EDI solutions. As a result, a portion of our revenues may be adversely affected. While we are learning to manage these new customers, there is no assurance that we will accurately assess the trends of these new customers. Accordingly, the value of these new customers, the volume of our services subscribed by them and the possibility of payment collection may differ materially from our current expectation. Further, since our operating expense levels are based significantly on our expectations of future revenue, our inability to assess the trends may render us vulnerable in the case of a significant shortfall in revenues or orders from these new customers, in which case we may not be able to reduce our operating expenses quickly in response. Therefore, any significant shortfall in revenue or orders could have an immediate adverse effect on our operating results. We may not be successful in competing against our competitors. We face a significant number of competitors, ranging from very large enterprises or divisions of very large companies to a number of relatively small organizations. These competitors are diverse in terms of their histories, business models, corporate strategies, financial strength, name recognition, company reputation, customer base and breadth of offerings. Many of our large competitors have more history, significantly greater financial resources, larger customer bases and more easily recognized names than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to changing technology and changes in customer requirements or be able to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and make more attractive offers to potential customers and employees, or be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their services than we can. New competition is emerging in the form of web services networks, collaborative applications, application service providers, e-marketplaces and integration broker suites. We have enhanced our technologies to communicate with these web-based technologies. However, there can be no assurance that our product and service offerings will compete effectively and generate any significant revenues. We believe that the high cost of implementation and the ongoing costs of supporting a company’s trading partners may be a barrier to the wider acceptance of our new product offerings in the marketplace. As a result, we may not be successful in competing against our competitors. If we are unable to maintain or replace our existing interconnect arrangements, our results of operations would suffer. We rely on many of our competitors to interconnect with our service to promote an “open community” so all businesses can take advantage of the efficiencies of EDI, no matter what network they choose as their provider. Although we have interconnect agreements with the major VAN providers, there can be no assurances that these agreements will not be terminated or will continue with acceptable terms. If terminated, we would have to find an acceptable alternative. If available, such an alternative could add significant operating costs to our business. We must continue to develop new products and services. If we do not keep pace with rapid technological changes, customer demands and intense competition, we will not be successful. Our market is characterized by rapidly changing technology, customer demands and intense competition. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our network infrastructure, customer support and document delivery systems and our web site are critical to our reputation and our ability to attract customers and 12 maintain adequate customer service levels. If we cannot keep pace with these changes and maintain the performance and reliability of our network and customer service levels, our business will suffer. The intense competition in our industry requires us to continue to develop strategic business and Internet solutions that enhance and improve the customer service features, functions and responsiveness of our products and services and we must constantly keep pace with continuing changes in information technology and customer requirements. While we actively search for ways to expand our business and the products and services to keep pace with the rapidly changing technology, customer demands and intense competition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to keep pace with these changes. If we are not successful in developing and marketing enhancements to our products and services that respond to technological change or customer demands, our business will suffer. We may need to obtain additional financing on satisfactory terms to continue to compete successfully. If we are unable to obtain necessary future capital, our business will suffer. We may need to raise additional funds if competitive pressures or technological changes are greater than anticipated, if we are unable to increase revenue at anticipated rates, if our expenses increase significantly or if our customers delay payment of our receivables or if we identify a suitable acquisition candidate that requires a cash outlay in order to complete the transaction. We cannot assure you that any additional financing will be available on reasonable terms or at all. Raising additional funds in the future by issuing securities could adversely affect our stockholders and negatively impact our publicly traded share price. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of debt securities, the holders of the debt securities will have a claim to our assets that will have priority over any claim of our stockholders. The interest on these debt securities would increase our costs and negatively impact our operating results. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock, the percentage ownership of our then-existing stockholders will decrease and they may experience additional dilution. In addition, any convertible or exchangeable securities may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable to the holders than those of the common stock. Failure of our third-party providers to provide adequate Internet and telecommunications service could result in significant losses of revenue. Our operations depend upon third parties for Internet access and telecommunications service. Frequent or prolonged interruptions of these services could result in significant losses of revenues. We have experienced outages in the past and could experience outages, delays and other difficulties due to system failures unrelated to our internal activities in the future. These types of occurrences could also cause users to perceive our services as not functioning properly and therefore cause them to use other methods to deliver and receive information. We have limited control over these third parties and cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain satisfactory relationships with any of them on acceptable commercial terms or that the quality of services that they provide will remain at the levels needed to enable us to conduct our business effectively. We may suffer systems failures and business interruptions that would harm our business. Our success depends in part on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our VAN service and Enable’s web hosting sites. Almost all of our network operating systems are located in third party co-location facilities. Although these facilities are designed to prevent operational interrupts, our systems are vulnerable to events such as damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and earthquakes. This could lead to interruptions or delays in our service, loss of data or the inability to accept, transmit and confirm customer documents and data. Although we have implemented network security measures, our servers may be vulnerable to computer viruses, electronic break-ins, attempts by third parties deliberately to exceed the capacity of our systems and similar disruptions. If we are unable to successfully integrate acquisitions, our financial results will suffer. Our ability to implement our business plan successfully requires effective planning and strong execution skills. If we cannot manage the integration of anticipated acquisitions, our business and financial results will suffer. We expect that we will need to continue to manage and to expand multiple relationships with customers, 13 Internet service providers and other third parties. We also expect that we will need to continually improve our financial systems, procedures and controls and will need to expand, train and manage our workforce, particularly our information technology and sales and marketing staffs. If we lose our net operating loss carryforward of approximately $73.3 million, our financial results will suffer. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code contains rules designed to discourage persons from buying and selling the net operating losses of companies. These rules generally operate by focusing on ownership changes among stockholders owning directly or indirectly 5% or more of the common stock of a company or any change in ownership arising from a new issuance of stock by a company. In general, the rules limit the ability of a company to utilize net operating losses after a change of ownership of more than 50% of its common stock over a three-year period. Purchases of our class A common stock in amounts greater than specified levels could create a limitation on our ability to utilize our net operating losses for tax purposes in the future. We are currently subject to certain limitations on the utilization of portions of our net operating loss carryforward. If we cannot hire and retain highly qualified employees, our business and financial results will suffer. We are substantially dependent on the continued services and performance of our executive officers and other key employees. If we are unable to attract, assimilate and retain highly qualified employees, our management may not be able to effectively manage our business, exploit opportunities and respond to competitive challenges and our business and financial results will suffer. Many of our competitors may be able to offer more lucrative compensation packages and higher-profile employment opportunities than we can. We depend on our intellectual property, which may be difficult and costly to protect. If we fail to adequately protect our proprietary rights, competitors could offer similar products relying on technologies we developed, potentially harming our competitive position and decreasing our revenues. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights by limiting access to the distribution of our software, documentation and other proprietary information and by relying on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws. In addition, we enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and certain customers, vendors and strategic partners. In some circumstances, however, we may, if required by a business relationship, provide our licensees with access to our data model and other proprietary information underlying our licensed applications. Despite the precautions we take, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy aspects of our current or future products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of software is difficult, and some foreign laws do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as United States laws. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, any of which could be costly and adversely affect our operating results. Intellectual property infringement claims against us could harm our business. It is possible our products and service may infringe upon the proprietary rights of others and other parties may assert infringement claims against us. Any such claims and any resulting litigation could subject us to significant liability for damages and could invalidate our proprietary rights. We could be required to enter into royalty and licensing agreements, which may be costly or otherwise burdensome or which may not be available on terms acceptable to us. We must comply in the future with new and costly reporting requirements. Under current Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) regulations, we are considered a non-accelerated filer as our market capitalization as of January 31, 2006 was under $75 million. Under current SEC regulations, we will have to be compliant with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX”) by July 31, 2007, although proposed rule changes would extend that date to July 31, 2008. The costs of implementing the requirements of the SOX have ranged from approximately $500,000 to over $1 million for smaller 14 companies. Although we began our SOX compliance efforts, there can be no assurance that we can be in full compliance when required for reasonable costs. Risks Relating to the Internet and Online Commerce Aspects of Our Business If Internet usage does not continue to grow or if its infrastructure fails, our business will suffer. We cannot be certain that the infrastructure or complementary services necessary to maintain the Internet as a useful and easy means of transferring documents and data will continue to develop. The Internet infrastructure may not support the demands that growth may place on it and the performance and reliability of the Internet may decline. Privacy concerns may prevent customers from using our services. Concerns about the security of online transactions and the privacy of users may inhibit the growth of the Internet as a means of delivering business documents and data. We may need to incur significant expenses to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches. We rely upon encryption and authentication technology to provide secure transmission of confidential information. If our security measures do not prevent security breaches, we could suffer operating losses, damage to our reputation, litigation and possible liability. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments that render current encryption technology outdated may result in a breach of our encryption and authentication technology and could enable an outside party to steal proprietary information or interrupt our operations. Government regulation and legal uncertainties relating to the Internet could harm our business. Changes in the regulatory environment in the United States and other countries could decrease our revenues and increase our costs. The Internet is largely unregulated and the laws governing the Internet remain unsettled. It may take years to determine whether and how existing laws such as those governing intellectual property, privacy and taxation apply to the Internet. In addition, because of increasing popularity and use of the Internet, any number of laws and regulations may be adopted in the United States and other countries relating to the Internet or other online services covering issues such as user privacy, security, pricing and taxation, contents and distribution. The cost of transmitting documents and data over the Internet could increase. We may not be able to increase our prices to cover these rising costs. Also, foreign and state laws and regulations relating to the provision of services over the Internet are still developing. If individual states or foreign countries impose taxes or laws that negatively impact services provided over the Internet, our cost of providing our ICC.NET and other services may increase. Risks Relating to Our Class A Common Stock The market price of our class A common stock is likely to be highly volatile. The market price of our class A common stock has been very volatile in the past, ranging from a low of $1.82 to a high of $4.66 during fiscal 2006 and is likely to fluctuate substantially in the future. If our class A common stock falls under $1.00 per share and fails to maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 for 30 consecutive trading days, it may no longer be eligible for trading in the Nasdaq Capital Market, which would adversely affect the ability of investors to sell their shares of our class A common stock. Shares eligible for future sale by our existing stockholders may adversely affect our stock price making it difficult to sell class A common stock. Between January 1, 2003 and May 2006, we registered the resale under the Securities Act of 1933 of an aggregate of 10,676,141 shares of our class A common stock, which includes 3,016,917 shares of class A common stock issuable upon the exercise of warrants to purchase shares of class A common stock and 192,307 shares of class A common stock issuable upon conversion of our series D preferred. The market price of our class A common stock could be materially and adversely affected by sales of even a small percentage of these shares or the perception that these sales could occur. 15 The market for our class A common stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market may be illiquid, which would restrict the ability to sell shares of class A common stock and could result in increased volatility in the trading prices for our class A common stock. The price at which our class A common stock will trade in the future cannot be predicted and will be determined by the market. The price may be influenced by many factors, including investors’ perceptions of our business, our financial condition, operating results and prospects, the use of the Internet for business purposes and general economic and market conditions. Our Board of Directors can issue preferred stock with rights adverse to the holders of class A common stock. Our Board of Directors is authorized, without further stockholder approval, to determine the provisions of and to issue up to 4,989,750 shares of preferred stock. Issuance of preferred shares with rights to dividends and other distributions, voting rights or other rights superior to the class A common stock could be adverse to the holders of class A common stock. In addition, issuance of preferred shares could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing an unsolicited change in control of our company, or could impose various procedural and other requirements that could make it more difficult for holders of our class A common stock to effect certain corporate actions, including the replacement of incumbent directors and the completion of transactions opposed by the incumbent Board of Directors. The rights of the holders of our class A common stock would be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. We may have to use significant resources indemnifying our officers and directors or paying for damages caused by their conduct. The Delaware General Corporation Law provides for broad indemnification by corporations of their officers and directors and permits a corporation to exculpate its directors from liability for their actions. Our bylaws and certificate of incorporation implement this indemnification and exculpation to the fullest extent permitted under this law as it currently exists or as it may be amended in the future. Consequently, subject to this law and to some limited exceptions in our certificate of incorporation, none of our directors will be liable to us or to our stockholders for monetary damages resulting from conduct as a director. We might not be able to retire the series C preferred stock, the existence of which may pose an impediment to our future fund raising efforts. We believe the 4% annual dividend and the $10,000,000 liquidating preference of our series C preferred stock may inhibit our ability to raise capital. In 2005, we began discussions with Cable & Wireless, PLC (“C&W”), the purported owner of the series C preferred stock, about retiring the series C preferred stock. As these discussions progressed, we realized that there was substantial evidence that the series C preferred stock was held by Cable & Wireless USA (“C&W USA”), a formerly wholly owned subsidiary of C&W that filed Chapter 11 bankruptcy in the United States on December 8, 2003. On January 6, 2006 we filed a complaint for declaratory judgment in the United States Bankruptcy Court (“the Court”) naming Omega Liquidating Trust (“Omega”) and C&W as defendants. We seek to have Omega, as the liquidating trust for the bankrupt C&W USA, declared the rightful owner of our series C preferred stock and of any of our class A common stock that have been issued but not distributed as dividends of the series C preferred stock. On March 10, 2006, defendant C&W entered a motion in the court to dismiss the complaint for declaratory judgment for lack of subject matter jurisdiction, or in the alternative, abstention by the Court. A hearing was scheduled by the Court for oral arguments on the motion for July 13, 2006. This hearing has been postponed indefinitely as the result of Omega and C&W reaching a settlement agreement. We expect Omega and C&W will file a motion of compromise and settlement for the Court’s approval. There can be no assurance that the ownership issue will be resolved within a reasonable timeframe. Even if the ownership is ever established, we cannot be assured that we will be able to reach acceptable terms with the owner of the series C preferred stock to retire the stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 16 