ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We Have a History of Losses and Anticipate Future Losses To date, we have been engaged primarily in research and development activities. Although we receive limited revenues on royalties from sales of Thalomid® and in the past have received license fees and research and development funding from a former collaborator and limited revenues from certain research grants, we have not derived significant revenues from operations. Through December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $357,910,000. Losses have continued since December 31, 2008. We will also be required to conduct substantial research and development and clinical testing activities for our proposed products. We expect that these activities will result in operating losses for the foreseeable future before we commercialize any products, if ever. In addition, to the extent we rely on others to develop and commercialize our products, our ability to achieve profitability will depend upon the success of these other parties. To support our research and development of certain product candidates, we may seek and rely on cooperative agreements from governmental and other organizations as a source of support. If a cooperative agreement was to be reduced to any substantial extent, it may impair our ability to continue our research and development efforts. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may be unable to sustain or increase it. 10 The Current Capital and Credit Market Conditions May Adversely Affect the Company’s Access to Capital, Cost of Capital, and Ability to Execute its Business Plan as Scheduled Access to capital markets is critical to our ability to operate. Traditionally, biopharmaceutical companies have funded their research and development expenditures through raising capital in the equity markets. Declines and uncertainties in these markets over the past year have severely restricted raising new capital and have affected companies’ ability to continue to expand or fund existing research and development efforts. We require significant capital for research and development for our product candidates and clinical trials. The general economic and capital market conditions in the United States have deteriorated significantly and have adversely affected our access to capital and increased the cost of capital, and there is no certainty that a recovery in the capital and credit markets, enabling us to raise capital, will occur in the 2009 fiscal year. If these economic conditions continue or become worse, the Company’s future cost of equity or debt capital and access to the capital markets could be adversely affected. In addition, an inability by the Company to access the capital markets on favorable terms due to our low stock price, or upon our delisting from the Nasdaq Stock Market if we fail to satisfy a listing requirement, could affect our ability to execute our business plan as scheduled. Moreover, we rely and intend to rely on third-parties, including our clinical research organizations, third-party manufacturers, and certain other important vendors and consultants. As a result of the current volatile and unpredictable global economic situation, there may be a disruption or delay in the performance of our third-party contractors and suppliers. If such third-parties are unable to adequately satisfy their contractual commitments to us in a timely manner, our business could be adversely affected. We Rely Exclusively on the Royalty Payments Based upon Thalomid Sales by a Third-Party to Produce our Revenues We entered into a licensing agreement in 2001 regarding royalty payments for Thalomid®, and in 2004, certain provisions of such agreement were satisfied, which then entitled the Company to share in royalty payments received by Royalty Pharma Finance Trust on annual Thalomid® sales above a certain threshold. Based on the licensing agreement royalty formula, annual royalty sharing commences with Thalomid® annual sales of approximately $225 million. During the year ended December 31, 2008, royalty payments from Thalomid® sales by Celgene accounted for all of our total revenues. As Thalomid® is distributed and sold by Celgene and/or its affiliates, we are reliant on a third party for our revenues. A wide variety of events could cause Thalomid® sales to decline. For example, if regulatory approvals for certain uses of Thalomid® are withdrawn, our royalty revenue could be adversely effected. In the event that Celgene determines to cease selling Thalomid®, or unexpected adverse effects are reported by patients or doctors in connection with the use of Thalomid®, patient and physician confidence in Thalomid® as a treatment could be materially affected. The inability of one of these third parties to perform these functions, or the failure of any of these parties to perform successfully, could cause our revenues to suffer. Additionally, if a competitor to Celgene successfully introduces a generic pharmaceutical product equivalent to Thalomid® at a relatively lower price and bypasses Celgene’s S.T.E.P.S.® proprietary distribution program, or if a competing drug gains significant market share, such action could have the effect of reducing the market share and profitability of Thalomid®, thus potentially causing a material adverse effect on our revenues and cash flow. Because we are very dependent on sales of Thalomid®, any reduction in Thalomid® sales for any reason, including, but not limited to, the reasons described, would cause our results of operations to suffer. 11 Our Common Stock May be Delisted From The NASDAQ Capital Market, Which Could Negatively Impact the Price of Our Common Stock and Our Ability to Access the Capital Markets On April 4, 2008, we received a letter from The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC (“NASDAQ”) advising that for the previous 30 consecutive business days, the bid price of the Company’s common stock had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued inclusion on The NASDAQ Global Market. Failure to comply with this minimum bid price requirement, or any other listing standard applicable to issuers listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, by October 1, 2008, would result in our common stock being ineligible for quotation on The NASDAQ Global Market. Our stock price has not closed above $1.00 since the date of the receipt of the letter from NASDAQ. On September 22, 2008, we submitted an application to transfer the trading of our common stock to the NASDAQ Capital Market. On October 1, 2008, we received a letter from The NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Department stating that our application had been approved and that our common stock would commence trading on The NASDAQ Capital Market on October 3, 2008. The NASDAQ Capital Market operates in substantially the same manner as The NASDAQ Global Market. Our trading symbol remains as “ENMD” and the trading of our stock was unaffected by the transfer. The transfer to The NASDAQ Capital Market extended the requirement to achieve a minimum $1.00 bid price until March 30, 2009. On October 22, 2008, we received notification from The NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Department of NASDAQ’s determination to temporarily suspend the minimum $1.00 closing bid price requirement until January 19, 2009, based on the current extraordinary market conditions. Upon reinstatement of the rules, we will then have until July 6, 2009 to regain compliance with the minimum $1.00 closing bid price requirement. We can regain compliance with a minimum $1.00 closing bid price for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days. We will continue to pursue partnering opportunities to raise non-dilutive capital and could defer all or a portion of our product candidate development costs. In the event that our common stock continues to trade under $1.00, we will consider all alternatives in order to maintain the public trading status of our stock. The delisting of our common stock from a national exchange could significantly affect the ability of investors to trade our securities and could negatively affect the value and liquidity of our common stock. Delisting could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. In addition, the delisting of our common stock could materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us or at all. On December 23, 2008, we received a second notification from the NASDAQ Listings Qualifications Department that NASDAQ extended its suspension of the bid price requirement until April 20, 2009. Prior to the reinstatement of the rule, we will be notified by NASDAQ to inform us of the number of calendar days remaining in our compliance period and a specific date by which we need to regain compliance. Additionally, we must maintain stockholders’ equity of at least $2.5 million to be in compliance with the continued listing standards for the NASDAQ Capital Market. At December 31, 2008, our consolidated stockholders’ equity was approximately $6.0 million. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to meet this listing standard in the future. If we fail to meet this Nasdaq listing requirement and are unable to successfully appeal to the Nasdaq Listing Qualification Staff and Hearings Panel for an extension of time to regain compliance, our common stock could be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, and we may apply to have our stock traded on the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board, an electronic quotation system that displays stock quotes by market makers. There can be no assurance that our common stock would be timely admitted for trading on that market. This alternative may result in a less liquid market available for existing and potential shareholders to buy and sell shares of our stock and could further depress the price of our stock. 12 The Market Price of Our Common Stock May Be Highly Volatile or May Decline Regardless of Our Operating Performance Our stock price has fluctuated from year-to-year and quarter-to-quarter and will likely continue to be volatile. Our stock has traded below $1.00 for almost twelve months. The valuations of many biotechnology companies without consistent product revenues and earnings are extraordinarily high based on conventional valuation standards, such as price to earnings and price to sales ratios. These trading prices and valuations may not be sustained. In the future, our operating results in a particular period may not meet the expectations of any securities analysts whose attention we may attract, or those of our investors, which may result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. Any negative change in the public’s perception of the prospects of biotechnology companies could depress our stock price regardless of our results of operations. These factors may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our Existing Term Loan Contains Affirmative and Negative Covenants That May Restrict our Business and Financing Activities We entered into a $20 million loan agreement with General Electric Capital Corporation, as agent for the lenders party thereto, on September 12, 2007. The loan agreement is secured by a pledge of all of our assets other than intellectual property, including the shares of the outstanding capital stock, or other equity interests, of each of our subsidiaries, and contains a variety of operational covenants, including limitations on our ability to incur liens or additional debt, make dispositions, pay dividends, redeem our stock, make certain investments and engage in certain merger, consolidation or asset sale transactions and transactions with affiliates, among other restrictions. Any future debt financing we enter into may involve similar or more onerous covenants that restrict our operations. Our borrowings under the loan agreement or any future debt financing we do will need to be repaid, which creates additional financial risk for our company, particularly if our business, or prevailing financial market conditions, are not conducive to paying-off or refinancing our outstanding debt obligations. Furthermore, our failure to comply with the covenants in the loan agreement could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all or a substantial portion of our debt, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash position, business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our Secured Lender and Preferred Stockholder Would Have Priority in Distributions Over our Common Stockholders Following a Liquidation Event Affecting the Company. As a Result, in the Event of a Liquidation Event, our Common Stockholders Would Receive Distributions Only After Priority Distributions Are Paid In the event of a Liquidation Event, our senior lender would be repaid first out of the proceeds received. Celgene, our holder of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (“Series A Preferred”), then would be paid an amount equal to the Series A Preferred liquidation preference of $10.00 per share of Series A Preferred stock, plus all accrued and unpaid dividends on such shares of Series A Preferred totaling approximately $6 million as of December 31, 2008. Additionally, unless waived, the holder of the Series A Preferred would be entitled to receive the Series A liquidation preference plus all accrued and unpaid dividends prior to any distributions to our common stockholders upon the occurrence of certain other liquidation events. As a result, in the event of a Liquidation Event, our common stockholders’ ability to realize value for their shares is subject to the payment of such priority distributions. Development of Our Products is at an Early Stage and is Uncertain Our proposed products and research programs are in the early stage of clinical development and require significant, time-consuming and costly research and development, testing and regulatory clearances. In developing our products, we are subject to risks of failure that are inherent in the development of products and therapeutic procedures. For example, it is possible that any or all of our proposed products will be ineffective or toxic, or otherwise will fail to receive necessary FDA clearances. There is a risk that the proposed products will be uneconomical to manufacture or market or will not achieve market acceptance. There is also a risk that third parties may hold proprietary rights that preclude us from marketing our proposed products or that others will market a superior or equivalent product. Further, our research and development activities might never result in commercially viable products. 13 Our product candidates are at the clinical stage of development. Although several of our product candidates have demonstrated some promising results in early clinical (human) trials and preclinical (animal) studies, they may not prove to be effective in humans. For example, testing on animals may occur under different conditions than testing in humans and therefore the results of animal studies may not accurately predict human experience. Likewise, early clinical studies may not be predictive of eventual safety or effectiveness results in larger-scale pivotal clinical trials. There are many regulatory steps that must be taken before any of these product candidates will be eligible for FDA approval and subsequent sale, including the completion of preclinical and clinical trials. We do not expect that these product candidates will be commercially available for several years, if ever. Technological Developments By Competitors May Render Our Products Obsolete If competitors were to develop superior technologies, our technologies could be rendered noncompetitive or obsolete, resulting in a material adverse effect to our business. Developments in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are expected to continue at a rapid pace. Success depends upon achieving and maintaining a competitive position in the development of products and technologies. Competition from other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies can be intense. Many competitors have substantially greater research and development capabilities, marketing, financial and managerial resources and experience in the industry. Even if a competitor creates a technology that is not superior, we may not be able to compete with such technology. We are Uncertain Whether Additional Funding Will Be Available For Our Future Capital Needs and Commitments, and If We Cannot Raise Additional Funding, or Access the Credit Markets, We May Be Unable to Complete Development of Our Product Candidates We will require substantial funds in addition to our existing working capital to develop our product candidates and otherwise to meet our business objectives. We have never generated sufficient revenue during any period since our inception to cover our expenses and have spent, and expect to continue to spend, substantial funds to continue our research and development and clinical programs. Any one of the following factors, among others, could cause us to require additional funds or otherwise cause our cash requirements in the future to increase materially: • results of research and development activities; • progress of our preclinical studies or clinical trials; • results of clinical trials; • changes in or terminations of our relationships with strategic partners; • changes in the focus, direction, or costs of our research and development programs; • competitive and technological advances; • establishment of marketing and sales capabilities; • manufacturing; • the regulatory approval process; or • product launch. 14 At December 31, 2008, we had cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities of $24,291,173. We currently have no commitments or arrangements for any financing. We may continue to seek additional capital through public or private financing or collaborative agreements. Our operations require significant amounts of cash. We may be required to seek additional capital, whether from sales of equity or debt or additional borrowings, for the future growth and development of our business. We can give no assurance as to the availability of such additional capital or, if available, whether it would be on terms acceptable to us. In addition, we may continue to seek capital through the public or private sale of securities, if market conditions are favorable for doing so. If we are successful in raising additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, stockholders will likely experience substantial dilution, or the equity securities may have rights, preferences, or privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock. If we raise funds through the issuance of debt securities, those securities would have rights, preferences, and privileges senior to those of our common stock. The current credit environment has negatively affected the economy, and we have considered how it might affect our business. Events affecting credit market liquidity could increase borrowing costs or limit availability of funds, and due to the continued adverse trends in the credit market, it may not be possible to refinance our existing credit facility to take advantage of lower interest rates. Moreover, the covenants of our term loan agreement contain provisions that may restrict the debt we may incur in the future. If we are not successful in obtaining sufficient capital because we are unable to access the capital markets at financially economical interest rates, it could reduce our research and development efforts and may materially adversely affect our future growth , results of operations and financial results, and we may be required to curtail significantly, or eliminate at least temporarily, one or more of our drug development programs. We Must Show the Safety and Efficacy of Our Product Candidates Through Clinical Trials, the Results of Which are Uncertain Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of our products, we must demonstrate, through preclinical studies (animal testing) and clinical trials (human testing), that our proposed products are safe and effective for use in each target indication. Testing of our product candidates will be required, and failure can occur at any stage of testing. Clinical trials may not demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to obtain the required regulatory approvals or result in marketable products. The failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of a product under development could delay or prevent regulatory approval of the potential product. Clinical trials for the product candidates we are developing may be delayed by many factors, including that potential patients for testing are limited in number. The failure of any clinical trials to meet applicable regulatory standards could cause such trials to be delayed or terminated, which could further delay the commercialization of any of our product candidates. Newly emerging safety risks observed in animal or human studies also can result in delays of ongoing or proposed clinical trials. Any such delays will increase our product development costs. If such delays are significant, they could negatively affect our financial results and the commercial prospects for our products. The Independent Clinical Investigators and Contract Research Organizations That We Rely Upon to Assist in the Conduct of Our Clinical Trials May Not Be Diligent, Careful or Timely, and May Make Mistakes, in the Conduct of Our Trials We depend on independent clinical investigators and contract research organizations, or CROs, to assist in the conduct of our clinical trials under their agreements with us. The investigators are not our employees, and we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs. If independent investigators fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our drug development programs, or if their performance is substandard, it will delay the approval of our FDA applications and our introduction of new drugs. The CROs we contract with to assist with the execution of our clinical trials play a significant role in the conduct of the trials and the subsequent collection and analysis of data. Failure of the CROs to meet their obligations could adversely affect clinical development of our products. 15 The Success of Our Business Depends Upon the Members of Our Senior Management Team, Our Scientific Staff and Our Ability to Continue to Attract and Retain Qualified Scientific, Technical and Business Personnel We are dependent on the principal members of our reconstituted senior management team and scientific staff for our business success. The loss of any of these people could impede the achievement of our development and business objectives. We do not carry key man life insurance on the lives of any of our key personnel. There is intense competition for human resources, including management, in the scientific fields in which we operate and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel necessary for the successful development of our product candidates, and any expansion into areas and activities requiring additional expertise. In addition, there can be no assurance that such personnel or resources will be available when needed. In addition, we rely on a significant number of consultants to assist us in formulating our research and development strategy and other business activities. All of our consultants may have commitments to, or advisory or consulting agreements with, other entities that may limit their availability to us. We May Need New Collaborative Partners to Further Develop and Commercialize Products, and if We Enter Into Such Arrangements, We May Give Up Control Over the Development and Approval Process and Decrease our Potential Revenue We plan to develop and commercialize our product candidates both with and without corporate alliances and partners. Nonetheless, we intend to explore opportunities for new corporate alliances and partners to help us develop, commercialize and market our product candidates. We expect to grant to our partners certain rights to commercialize any products developed under these agreements, and we may rely on our partners to conduct research and development efforts and clinical trials on, obtain regulatory approvals for, and manufacture and market any products licensed to them. Each individual partner will seek to control the amount and timing of resources devoted to these activities generally. We anticipate obtaining revenues from our strategic partners under such relationships in the form of research and development payments and payments upon achievement of certain milestones. Since we generally expect to obtain a royalty for sales or a percentage of profits of products licensed to third parties, our revenues may be less than if we retained all commercialization rights and marketed products directly. In addition, there is a risk that our corporate partners will pursue alternative technologies or develop competitive products as a means for developing treatments for the diseases targeted by our programs. We may not be successful in establishing any collaborative arrangements. Even if we do establish such collaborations, we may not successfully commercialize any products under or derive any revenues from these arrangements. Our strategy also involves entering into multiple, concurrent strategic alliances to pursue commercialization of our core technologies. There is a risk that we will be unable to manage simultaneous programs successfully. With respect to existing and potential future strategic alliances and collaborative arrangements, we will depend on the expertise and dedication of sufficient resources by these outside parties to develop, manufacture, or market products. If a strategic alliance or collaborative partner fails to develop or commercialize a product to which it has rights, we may not recognize any revenues on that particular product. We Have No Current Manufacturing or Marketing Capacity and Rely on Only One Supplier For Some of Our Products We do not expect to manufacture or market products in the near term, but we may try to do so in certain cases. We do not currently have the capacity to manufacture or market products and we have limited experience in these activities. If we elect to perform these functions, we will be required to either develop these capacities, or contract with others to perform some or all of these tasks. We may be dependent to a significant extent on corporate partners, licensees, or other entities for manufacturing and marketing of products. If we engage directly in manufacturing or marketing, we will require substantial additional funds and personnel and will be required to comply with extensive regulations. We may be unable to develop or contract for these capacities when required to do so in connection with our business. 16 We depend on our third-party manufacturers to perform their obligations effectively and on a timely basis. These third parties may not meet their obligations and any such non-performance may delay clinical development or submission of products for regulatory approval, or otherwise impair our competitive position. Any significant problem experienced by one of our suppliers could result in a delay or interruption in the supply of materials to us until such supplier resolves the problem or an alternative source of supply is located. Any delay or interruption would likely lead to a delay or interruption of manufacturing operations, which could negatively affect our operations. Although we have identified alternative suppliers for our product candidates, we have not entered into contractual or other arrangements with them. If we needed to use an alternate supplier for any product, we would experience delays while we negotiated an agreement with them for the manufacture of such product. In addition, we may be unable to negotiate manufacturing terms with a new supplier that are as favorable as the terms we have with our current suppliers. Problems with any manufacturing processes could result in product defects, which could require us to delay shipment of products or recall products previously shipped. In addition, any prolonged interruption in the operations of the manufacturing facilities of one of our sole-source suppliers could result in the cancellation of shipments. A number of factors could cause interruptions, including equipment malfunctions or failures, or damage to a facility due to natural disasters or otherwise. Because our manufacturing processes are or are expected to be highly complex and subject to a lengthy FDA approval process, alternative qualified production capacity may not be available on a timely basis or at all. Difficulties or delays in our manufacturing could increase our costs and damage our reputation. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products can be an expensive, time consuming, and complex process. Manufacturers often encounter difficulties in scaling-up production of new products, including quality control and assurance and shortages of personnel. Delays in formulation and scale-up to commercial quantities could result in additional expense and delays in our clinical trials, regulatory submissions, and commercialization. Failure of Manufacturing Facilities Producing Our Product Candidates to Maintain Regulatory Approval Could Delay or Otherwise Hinder Our Ability to Market Our Product Candidates Any manufacturer of our product candidates will be subject to applicable Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) prescribed by the FDA or other rules and regulations prescribed by foreign regulatory authorities. We and any of our collaborators may be unable to enter into or maintain relationships either domestically or abroad with manufacturers whose facilities and procedures comply or will continue to comply with GMP and who are able to produce our small molecules in accordance with applicable regulatory standards. Failure by a manufacturer of our products to comply with GMP could result in significant time delays or our inability to obtain marketing approval or, should we have market approval, for such approval to continue. Changes in our manufacturers could require new product testing and facility compliance inspections. In the United States, failure to comply with GMP or other applicable legal requirements can lead to federal seizure of violated products, injunctive actions brought by the federal government, inability to export product, and potential criminal and civil liability on the part of a company and its officers and employees. Manufacturing Our Product Candidates May Not Be Commercially Feasible The manufacturing processes for all of the small molecules we are developing have not yet been tested at commercial levels, and it may not be possible to manufacture these materials in a cost-effective manner. We Depend on Patents and Other Proprietary Rights, Some of Which are Uncertain Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patents for our products, both in the United States and abroad. The patent position of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies in general is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. Risks that relate to patenting our products include the following: • our failure to obtain additional patents; • challenge, invalidation, or circumvention of patents already issued to us; • failure of the rights granted under our patents to provide sufficient protection; • independent development of similar products by third parties; or • ability of third parties to design around patents issued to our collaborators or us. 17 Our potential products may conflict with composition, method, and use of patents that have been or may be granted to competitors, universities or others. As the biotechnology industry expands and more patents are issued, the risk increases that our potential products may give rise to claims that may infringe the patents of others. Such other persons could bring legal actions against us claiming damages and seeking to enjoin clinical testing, manufacturing and marketing of the affected products. Any such litigation could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of effort by our management and technical personnel. If any of these actions are successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages, we could be required to obtain a license in order to continue to manufacture or market the affected products. We may not prevail in any action and any license required under any needed patent might not be made available on acceptable terms, if at all. We are a party to sponsored research agreements and license agreements that require us to make milestone payments upon attainment of certain regulatory milestones. Failure to meet such milestones could result in the loss of certain rights to compounds covered under such license agreements. We also rely on trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect and others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques and gain access to our trade secrets and disclose our technology. We may be unable to meaningfully protect our rights to unpatented trade secrets. We require our employees to complete confidentiality training that specifically addresses trade secrets. All employees, consultants, and advisors are required to execute a confidentiality agreement when beginning an employment or a consulting relationship with us. The agreements generally provide that all trade secrets and inventions conceived by the individual and all confidential information developed or made known to the individual during the term of the relationship automatically become our exclusive property. Employees and consultants must keep such information confidential and may not disclose such information to third parties except in specified circumstances. However, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information. To the extent that consultants, key employees, or other third parties apply technological information independently developed by them or by others to our proposed projects, disputes may arise as to the proprietary rights to such information. Any such disputes may not be resolved in our favor. Certain of our consultants are employed by or have consulting agreements with other companies and any inventions discovered by them generally will not become our property. Our Potential Products Are Subject to Government Regulatory Requirements and an Extensive Approval Process Our research, development, preclinical and clinical trials, manufacturing, and marketing of most of our product candidates are subject to an extensive regulatory approval process by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the United States and abroad. The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory approvals for drug and biologic products, including required preclinical and clinical testing, is time consuming and expensive. Even after spending time and money, we may not receive regulatory approvals for clinical testing or for the manufacturing or marketing of any products. Our collaborators or we may encounter significant delays or costs in the effort to secure necessary approvals or licenses. Even if we obtain regulatory clearance for a product, that product will be subject to continuing review. Later discovery of previously unknown defects or failure to comply with the applicable regulatory requirements may result in restrictions on a product’s marketing or withdrawal of the product from the market, as well as possible civil or criminal penalties. 18 Potential Products May Subject Us to Product Liability for Which Insurance May Not Be Available The use of our potential products in clinical trials and the marketing of any pharmaceutical products may expose us to product liability claims. We have obtained a level of liability insurance coverage that we believe is adequate in scope and coverage for our current stage of development. However, our present insurance coverage may not be adequate to protect us from liabilities we might incur. In addition, our existing coverage will not be adequate as we further develop products and, in the future, adequate insurance coverage and indemnification by collaborative partners may not be available in sufficient amounts or at a reasonable cost. If a product liability claim or series of claims are brought against us for uninsured liabilities, or in excess of our insurance coverage, the payment of such liabilities could have a negative effect on our business and financial condition. We Acquired Miikana in 2006 in a Strategic Transaction and May Engage in Other Strategic Transactions, Which Could Negatively Affect Our Business and Earnings In January 2006, we acquired Miikana Therapeutics, Inc., a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company. In 2009, we may consider strategic and other corporate transactions as opportunities present themselves. There are risks associated with such activities. These risks include, among others, incorrectly assessing the quality of a prospective strategic partner, encountering greater than anticipated costs in integration, being unable to profitably deploy assets acquired in the transaction, such as drug candidates, possible dilution to our shareholders, and the loss of key employees due to changes in management. Further, strategic transactions may place additional constraints on our resources by diverting the attention of our management from our business operations. Our newly constituted senior management team does not have substantial experience with acquisitions. To the extent we issue securities in connection with additional transactions, these transactions and related issuances may have a dilutive effect on earnings per share and our ownership. Our earnings, financial condition, and prospects after an acquisition depend in part on our ability to successfully integrate the operations of the acquired business or technologies. We may be unable to integrate operations successfully or to achieve expected cost savings. Any cost savings which are realized may be offset by losses in revenues or other charges to earnings. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 