ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial results and results of operations. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. Before you buy our common stock, you should know that making such an investment involves some risks, including the risks described below. The risks that we have highlighted here are not the only ones that we face. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. In that case, the trading price of our stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Our future growth and expansion are dependent upon our ability to open additional restaurants and operate new restaurants profitably. Future growth in sales and profits will depend to a substantial extent on our ability to increase the number of restaurants we operate, license or manage. Our ability to open additional restaurants will depend upon a number of factors, including the availability of suitable locations, our ability to negotiate leases on acceptable terms, the securing of required governmental permits and approvals, the hiring and training of skilled restaurant management and hourly employees, the availability of financing on acceptable terms (if at all), general economic conditions and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Due to the highly customized nature of our restaurant concept and the complex design, construction, and pre-opening processes for each new location, the lease negotiation and restaurant development timeframes vary from location to location and can be subject to unforeseen delays. There can be no assurance that we will be able to open new restaurants or that, if opened, those restaurants will be operated profitably. Our ability to accelerate the pace of our restaurant openings is dependent upon the availability of adequate financing sources on acceptable terms. Our efforts to accelerate the pace at which we open restaurants are subject to our ability to finance such restaurant openings. We established a new credit facility during the first quarter of 2006 to provide additional availability of financing for restaurant openings, among other purposes, and enlarged that financing facility in December 2006. While that credit facility, combined with our projected operating cash flows, is expected to support a moderately more rapid expansion of our restaurant base, those sources may not be adequate to support the opening of all restaurants that we desire to open at a pace determined to be optimal by management. In the 18 Table of Contents event current financing resources are inadequate to support all of the planned restaurant openings from time to time, we may be required to seek additional financing to support such expansion efforts. Such additional financing may take the form of new or expanded credit facilities or the sale of additional equity securities, among other forms. We presently have no commitments to provide any additional financing should we determine that additional financing is required. In the event that management determines that additional financing is required to support restaurant expansion, there is no assurance that we will be able to secure such financing on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to secure needed additional financing to support planned expansion, our expansion efforts may be curtailed and we may have to forego certain planned restaurant openings. Our relative small size makes us vulnerable to risks associated with lack of diversification and risks associated with managing and supporting growing operations. We operated 23 restaurants and licensed 2 additional restaurants at December 31, 2006. Due to this relatively small number of restaurants, poor operations at any one restaurant could materially affect our overall profitability. Even though our revenues have grown over the last decade, our current restaurant field supervision and home office support infrastructures remain relatively small. Accordingly, we remain vulnerable to a variety of business risks generally associated with smaller, growing companies. Any failure to continue to upgrade operating, financial, and restaurant support systems or unexpected difficulties encountered during expansion could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Although we believe that our systems and controls are adequate to address our current needs and we are in the process of upgrading certain of our operating and financial systems and processes, there can be no assurance that such upgraded systems and processes will be adequate to sustain future growth, and that further upgrades will not be necessary. Our profitability is subject to risks associated with fluctuations in costs of key ingredients, labor and utilities. Our profitability is dependent upon our ability to anticipate and react to changes in the costs of key operating resources, including food and other raw materials, labor, utilities and other supplies and services. Various factors beyond our control, including adverse weather and general marketplace conditions, may affect the availability and cost of food and other raw materials. Recent increases in energy costs may have a material adverse impact on our restaurant profitability if those costs continue at current, or higher, levels. The impact of inflation on food, labor and occupancy costs can significantly affect our operations. While management has been able to react to inflation and other changes in the costs of key operating resources by increasing prices for menu items, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to do so in the future. There can also be no assurance that we will continue to generate increases in comparable restaurant sales in amounts sufficient to offset inflationary or other cost pressures. Our success is dependent upon our ability to retain the services of key senior management personnel and attract and retain additional key personnel. The success of our business is highly dependent upon the services of our senior executive team. Robert Spivak, our co-founder and President and Chief Executive Officer retired during 2006 and Philip Gay, our then Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, was promoted to the position of President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Spivak agreed to continue providing services as a part time consultant following his retirement. In conjunction with the promotion of Mr. Gay, we hired a new Chief Financial Officer. Our success will be dependent, during the period immediately following Mr. Spivak’s retirement, upon our ability to successfully 19 Table of Contents transition our senior management team under the leadership of Mr. Gay and our new Chief Financial Officer. Further, our success will be dependent upon the continued services of our senior management team and our ability to attract and retain skilled management employees at all levels of operations. Poor execution in our transition of senior management personnel or the loss of services of key personnel could have a material adverse effect upon our business. Our operations are subject to intense competition and changes in consumer preferences. The restaurant industry is highly competitive. There are a substantial number of restaurant operations that compete directly and indirectly with us, some of which may have significantly greater financial resources, higher revenues, and greater economies of scale than we enjoy. The restaurant business is often affected by changes in consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns, national and regional economic conditions, demographic trends, consumer confidence in the economy, traffic patterns, the cost and availability of raw materials and labor, purchasing power, governmental regulations and local competitive factors. Any change in these factors could adversely affect our restaurant operations. Multi-unit foodservice operations such as ours can also be substantially affected by adverse publicity resulting from food quality, illness, injury, health concerns, or operating issues stemming from a single restaurant. We attempt to manage these factors, but the occurrence of any one of these factors could cause our business to be adversely affected. We believe that our restaurants compete favorably in the consumer marketplace with respect to the attributes of quality, variety, taste, service, consistency, and overall value. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations that may adversely affect our quarterly operating results in select periods. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Historically, our highest earnings have occurred in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year, as our sales in most of our restaurants have typically been higher during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. As a result of these factors, results of operations for any single quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for a full fiscal year. Quarterly results have been, and in the future will continue to be, significantly impacted by the timing of new restaurant openings and their respective pre-opening costs. Our California based restaurants have in the past been, and may in the future be, subject to temporary closure due to energy shortages or earthquakes. High energy costs and consumption and constrained energy supplies have periodically resulted in rolling blackouts in California, particularly during summer months. Earthquakes have periodically resulted in damage to our locations in California. We have experienced periodic temporary restaurant closures in the past as a result of such rolling blackouts and earthquake damage and may experience similar closures in the future. Any such closures will result in loss of revenues from the effected restaurants and potentially higher occupancy and operating costs. Our business is subject to extensive government regulations that may adversely affect our existing or planned operations or result in additional costs or potential liabilities. Our business is subject to extensive state and local government regulation in the various jurisdictions in which our restaurants are located, including regulations relating to alcoholic beverage control, public health and safety and fire codes. The failure to obtain or retain food and liquor licenses could adversely affect the operation of our restaurants. Any difficulties, delays or failures in obtaining and/or retaining licenses, permits or other regulatory approvals could delay or prevent the opening and/or continued operation of a restaurant in a particular area. We may 20 Table of Contents also be subject to “dram shop” statutes in certain states that generally provide a person injured by an intoxicated person the right to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. We are subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act, which governs such matters as minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions, along with the Americans With Disabilities Act, various family leave mandates and a variety of other laws enacted, or rules and regulations promulgated, by federal, state and local governmental authorities that govern these and other employment matters. We expect periodic increases in payroll expenses as a result of federal, state and local mandated increases in the minimum wage. While the timing and amount of any such increases cannot be predicted, such increases could have a material adverse affect on our operating results. In addition, our vendors may be affected by higher minimum wage standards, which may increase the price of goods and services supplied to us. We are subject to pending litigation, and potential liability, regarding application of employment regulations. Complex issues relating to the interpretation and application of various labor regulations may result in our incurring unforeseen costs and/or liabilities relating to compliance with such regulations. Many restaurant operators in California have been subject to litigation over recent years relating to non-compliance with California labor provisions mandating that employees be provided meal and break periods. A former employee has filed a class action lawsuit against us asserting violation of the applicable California regulations regarding meal and break periods. While we believe that all of our employees were provided with the opportunity to take all required meal and rest breaks, many restaurant operators in California have incurred substantial expenses in settling similar claims and we may incur substantial expenses in connection with defending or settling the pending litigation. We may be subject to increased liability resulting from our partial self-insurance of workers compensation claims. In order to better manage the cost of our workers compensation expense, commencing in 2004 through November 2006, we altered our workers compensation coverage to substantially increase our per event and aggregate deductibles. As a result, we reduced our recurring cost of workers compensation insurance but are exposed to substantially higher potential losses that could result from claims that might have arisen during that period of time. In December 2006, we changed back to a guaranteed workers’ compensation insurance plan, which limits exposure to only the premiums related to the plan. We may experience increased costs, worker related impediments and other losses at our Chicago restaurant as a result of our use of union workers. The employees of our Chicago restaurant are members of the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees Union, Local 1, AFL-CIO. As a result of our Chicago workforce being unionized, we experience higher labor costs in our Chicago operations, have less managerial control over our workforce and are subject to certain impediments, delays, costs and other potential risks not faced at our other restaurants. Accordingly, we may experience unexpected losses or costs in our Chicago operations. Provisions in our charter and in Delaware law may impede, delay or prevent potential takeovers that might otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. Our Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws contain various provisions and Delaware law contains certain provisions that could make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest 21 Table of Contents involving the Company, even if such events would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders. Such provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Common Stock. In addition, we may issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval on such terms as the Board of Directors may determine. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. Moreover, although the ability to issue preferred stock may provide flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, such issuance may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or may discourage a third party from acquiring, a majority of our voting stock. We have no current plans to issue any shares of preferred stock. We may in the future adopt other measures that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control. Certain of such measures may be adopted without any further vote or action by the stockholders, although we have no present plans to adopt any such measures. Identification of material weakness in internal control may adversely affect our financial results. We are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Those provisions provide for, among other things, the identification of material weaknesses in internal control that could indicate a lack of adequate controls to generate accurate financial statements. Though we routinely assess our internal controls, there can be no assurance that we will be able to timely remediate material weaknesses, if any, that may be identified in future periods, or maintain all of the controls necessary for continued compliance. There likewise can be no assurance that we will be able to retain sufficient skilled finance and accounting personnel, especially in light of the increased demand for such personnel among publicly traded companies. Because we are not an “accelerated filer”, as defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, certain provisions of Section 404 relating to the provision of a report of management and accompanying auditor’s report on a company’s internal controls over financial reporting will not be applicable until our fiscal year 2007. Based on the experiences of other issuers currently subject to the full requirements of Section 404, we expect that we will incur substantial additional costs in order to prepare for our first required report under Section 404 and increased recurring costs thereafter. Our stock price is subject to volatility associated with market fluctuations as well as our operating performance and limited trading volume in our stock. The price at which our common stock trades is determined in the marketplace and may be influenced by many factors, including our performance, investor expectations, the trading volume in our common stock, general economic and market conditions and competition. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, including our quarterly operating results and those of other restaurant companies, changes in general conditions in the economy, the financial markets or the restaurant industry, natural disasters, terrorist attacks or other developments affecting our business or our competitors. In addition, in recent years the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. 22 Table of Contents Our directors, executive officers and significant shareholders hold a substantial portion of our stock that may lead to conflicts with other shareholders over corporate governance. Our directors, executive officers and current holders of 5% or more of our outstanding common stock hold a substantial portion of our stock. At March 10, 2007, directors and members of senior management held in excess of 975,285 shares of our common stock, representing approximately 15.2% our outstanding shares, and a major shareholder affiliated with Starwood held 923,873 shares of our common stock, representing approximately 14.4% of our outstanding shares. Such persons, acting together, and each acting alone, will be able to significantly influence all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as mergers or other business combinations. Conversion of our outstanding convertible securities could substantially dilute common stock prices because the conversion prices of those securities are below our current market price. We have issued, and may issue in the future, various securities that are convertible or exercisable at prices that are lower than the current market price of our common stock or are subject to adjustment due to a variety of factors, including fluctuations in the market price of our common stock and the issuance of securities at an exercise or conversion price less than the then-current exercise or conversion price of those securities. For example, at March 10, 2007, we had issued and outstanding 26,562 warrants to purchase shares of our common stock at a price of $7.00 per share, 811,100 options to purchase shares of our common stock at prices ranging from $1.55 to $14.00, and shares of Series II Convertible Preferred Stock that are convertible into 125,000 shares of our common stock. On March 10, 2007, the closing price of our common stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market was $7.28. The value of our common stock could, therefore, experience substantial dilution as a result of the conversion or exercise of our outstanding derivative securities or as a result of any issuance of additional securities at prices lower than the conversion prices of such securities. Our business may be adversely affected by conflicts of interest associated with doing business with affiliates of certain former directors and principal shareholders. We are presently party to business arrangements with affiliates of a former director and a former principal shareholder that continues to have board representation. We are party to agreements with two entities affiliated with Lewis Wolff, a former director and a substantial shareholder. We lease the site of the San Jose Grill restaurant from an entity in which Mr. Wolff is a part owner. Similarly, we are party to an agreement with HRP, an entity controlled by a member of Mr. Wolff’s family, pursuant to which HRP previously assisted in locating hotel locations for restaurants and pursuant to which HRP was entitled to a portion of the fees or profits from those restaurants. During 2006, we paid rents of $387,000 with respect to the San Jose Grill and paid management fees of $214,000 to HRP. During 2006, we entered into the HRP Purchase Agreement pursuant to which we agreed to purchase substantially all of the rights of HRP under the HRP Agreement for $2,771,133 plus additional payments of up to $294,151, payable in June 2007. We are also party to various agreements with Starwood Hotels and Resorts, the employer of one of our directors, Richard Dantas, and a former principal shareholder. Under the Development Agreement, we agreed to work with Starwood to identify potential restaurant locations in Starwood properties and, subject to negotiating acceptable terms, develop and operate restaurants in Starwood properties under management or license arrangements. Pursuant to the Development Agreement, we agreed to grant certain warrants to Starwood based on restaurant 23 Table of Contents openings. As of December 31, 2006, we operated two restaurants pursuant to management agreements with Starwood. Our business dealings with Starwood and affiliates of Mr. Wolff create potential conflicts of interest that could result in our securing terms that are less favorable than might otherwise be available in the absence of such conflicts. Our future leverage could adversely affect our operations. During 2006, we established a new and expanded credit facility to support our planned growth, among other reasons. Unless we secure additional equity financing or otherwise generate adequate operating cash flows, we anticipate that we will be required to draw upon our credit facility to pay amounts due in June 2007 under the HRP Purchase Agreement and to support our planned expansion. In the event that we make any substantial borrowings under our credit facility, we may be required to devote substantial portions of our operating cash flow to service indebtedness incurred under such facility. The incurrence of such indebtedness could also result in reduced flexibility in operations and financing. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable 