D. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below and in the other sections of, and the documents we have incorporated by reference into, this prospectus before making an investment decision. The risks described below and in the documents we have incorporated by reference into this prospectus are not the only ones facing our company. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading price of our ordinary shares could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND PRODUCTS We have incurred losses in the past, and we may incur additional losses in the future. We have incurred losses in prior periods and from our inception through September 30, 2005 carried an accumulated deficit. We operate in a volatile industry, and our results can be significantly influenced by numerous dynamic factors, including changes in consumer demand, component availability and pricing and general competitive pressures. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current profitability. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future, which may adversely affect the price of our securities. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and we expect that they will continue to fluctuate in the future. Our operating results are subject to various factors that are outside of our control and which are difficult to predict, including expected demand, supply conditions, industry trends, competitive factors and decisions made by our suppliers, partners and customers. These fluctuations may cause our quarterly operating results in future periods to be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. If that occurs, the market price of our securities could be adversely affected. Our relative mix of products varies quarterly, which can negatively affect our gross margins and profitability. Our product mix varies quarterly, which affects our overall gross margins and profitability. Each of our products has different gross margins, which vary quarterly based on market dynamics, competition, our average selling prices, our cost of materials and the supply and availability of flash memory components. To the extent the percentage of our revenues derived from lower margin products increases in any given period, our overall gross margins will decline for that period. Revenues derived from our non-product revenue sources – specifically license fees and royalties – carry no associated cost of goods sold. Consequently, if our non-product revenues decrease as a percentage of our total revenues, our gross margins and profitability could be adversely affected. Depending on the relative mix of sales of our products and the relative contribution of our product and non-product revenues, our gross margins could fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and may be negatively affected in any given quarter, which could adversely affect our profitability. 7 Our target markets tend to be large and characterized by high growth, and therefore experience intense competition, leading to reduced gross margins and decreased profitability. Fast growing and large markets frequently attract competition, including from large U.S. and international companies, which can lead to loss of market share, increased pricing pressures, including drastic price decreases, and compression of margins. Our target markets tend to be large, and have experienced, and may continue to experience, rapid growth. In particular, the USB flash drive market has experienced significant growth, which has attracted numerous competitors, leading to aggressive price competition and low gross margins. To the extent our competitors drastically reduce prices and such price reduction is not accompanied by a proportional reduction in the prices for flash memory components from our suppliers, our gross margins would suffer, which could negatively affect our profitability. Similarly, the multimedia mobile handset market has experienced significant growth and become increasingly competitive, leading to pricing pressure and margin compression. Some of our competitors, such as flash memory manufacturers and companies that own fabrication facilities, have a significant cost advantage over us, which they could exploit to our detriment to the extent they decided to compete more aggressively in our markets. To the extent we continue to target large or fast growing markets, we are likely to experience significant competition and pricing pressures, which may lead to loss of market share and loss of revenues, which could adversely affect our profitability. Our sales to larger customers often have lower associated gross margins, which could negatively affect our profitability. We primarily target our products to a relatively small group of large original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, and consumer electronics companies, who purchase in higher volumes. There is intense competition for these customers. Because of this competition and the bargaining position of these customers, such customers generally have greater leverage than us in negotiating the terms of the purchase of our products, which has resulted in pricing pressures on us and in lower gross margins. To the extent our sales to these or other larger customers represent a greater portion of our total sales, our gross margins will be lower, which could continue to negatively affect our profitability. We depend on mDrive and mDOC products for the vast majority of our sales. As a result, our business will suffer if demand for any of these products declines. The vast majority of our revenues are generated from sales of mDrive products (our USB flash drive products, formerly named DiskOnKey) and mDOC products (our embedded flash drive products, formerly named Mobile DiskOnChip). If demand for any of these products declines and we cannot develop new products to offset this decline, or if the new products that we develop are not successful in the market, our sales will decline. Any significant decrease in the sales of our mDrive or mDOC products will have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Demand for increasingly higher capacity data storage may decline, which could cause our sales to decline. Our target markets have enjoyed significant growth, driven in part by the decline in prices for flash memory components, which in turn has enabled us to offer higher capacity storage at lower prices. A portion of the growth in our sales to the USB flash drive market is attributable to consumers replacing their existing personal data storage medium with higher capacity data storage, as the prices for higher capacity storage decline. Similarly, a portion of the growth in our sales to the multimedia mobile handset market is attributable to consumers demanding applications in handsets that require high capacity data storage, such as embedded digital cameras and MP3 playback functionality. However, the demand for increasingly higher capacity storage may diminish as consumers achieve sufficient capacity for their data storage applications. In lieu of upgrading to higher data storage capacities, consumers may opt to buy lower capacity data storage products at lower prices, or entirely forego replacing their existing high capacity data storage medium or device. To the extent consumer demand for higher capacity data storage declines, our sales could decline, which could have an adverse affect on our business and results of operations. 8 The license fees and royalties payable to us from third parties vary quarterly and may decline in the future, which would adversely affect our gross margins and results of operations. The license fees and royalties payable to us from our patent cross license and other agreements with third parties are often variable and can fluctuate from period to period, which makes it difficult to predict our license fees and royalty revenues. Our intellectual property strategy includes licensing our patents and technology to third parties. Under these arrangements, we earn license fees and royalties on individually negotiated terms. Our income from license fees and royalties can fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter as a portion of this income comes from royalties based on actual sales by our licensees. As a result, our license and royalty revenues have fluctuated in the past and will likely continue to fluctuate in the future. Because license and royalty revenues have no associated cost of goods sold, our gross margins and net income are likely to fluctuate more with changes in license and royalty revenues than with changes in product revenues. In addition, our license and royalty revenues may decline in the future as our existing cross license or other agreements expire or caps are reached or if any of these agreements are terminated prior to expiration, which could adversely affect our results of operations. For example, as a result of our recent termination of our agreement with Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., Samsung’s obligation to pay license fees to us has expired, which we expect to have a negative effect on our gross margins. The effect on our results of operations from the Venture with Toshiba depends upon various factors, which can fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and which could adversely affect our results of operations. In the USB flash drive market, we generate a portion of our revenues through the Venture with Toshiba,. The Venture is designed, among other things, to enable us and Toshiba to benefit from a portion of each party’s respective sales of USB flash drives. We consolidate the results of the Venture, although we only reflect in our net income our proportional share of the Venture’s net income. The Venture’s effect on our results of operations depends upon various factors, including the sales of USB flash drives from the Venture to Toshiba, Toshiba’s sales of USB flash drives to its customers, potential alternate sourcing of USB flash drives by Toshiba and the Venture’s cost of purchasing flash memory components from Toshiba. These factors had in the past and could in the future fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, which could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, if Toshiba manufactures less NAND flash memory components, reduces its sales activity in the USB flash drive market in the future, reduces its USB flash drive activities through the Venture, experiences an increase in its manufacturing costs for the flash components or experiences a decrease in its manufacturing yields for the flash components, or if our agreements with Toshiba in connection with the Venture were to be modified, or terminated, or if Toshiba does not comply with its obligations towards us under such agreements, our results of operations could be adversely affected. If the Venture’s revenues, gross margins or operating income attributable to its sales to Toshiba decline, our operating results will be adversely affected. We consolidate the results of the Venture. Our revenues, gross margins and operating income are therefore affected by the revenues, gross margins and operating income of the Venture. A portion of the revenues of the Venture, which historically has represented approximately half of the Venture’s revenues, is attributable to the Venture’s sales to Toshiba. We have limited visibility of the Venture’s sales to Toshiba, which can vary from quarter to quarter. To the extent there is a decline in the Venture’s revenues, gross margins or operating income attributable to its sales to Toshiba, our revenues, gross margins and operating income will be adversely affected. Our revenues and gross margins have been, and in the future may be, adversely affected by volatility in the market price or in the availability of flash memory components. For most of our products, we rely to a significant extent on the purchase of flash memory components, or custom made products incorporating flash memory components, from third party manufacturers. As a result, we are exposed to the risks associated with the ongoing volatility in the price of flash memory components and constraints in its supply. • If the price of flash memory components declines, the value of our inventory may fall, requiring us to write down the value of our inventory, which may result in a significant decrease in our gross margins. In addition, we may need to reduce significantly our selling prices, which may result in a decline in our revenues and gross margins. In particular, we expect the number of suppliers of flash memory components to increase in the near term as well as an increase in the manufacturing capacity of current suppliers, either of which could increase the supply of flash memory components in the market and reduce the market prices of these components. In certain cases, primarily when we depend on a single source supplier, our cost of goods may not decrease proportionately with the decrease in prices of standard flash memory components. However, we will be required to lower our selling prices to match the pricing reductions among our competitors in response to the decrease in flash components prices, leading to lower gross margins, which may result in a decline in our profitability. • Alternatively, if the market price for flash memory components increases (for example, as a result of increased demand or due to flash memory supply constraints), we may be unable to pass these price increases on to our customers and, consequently, our gross margins would decline and we may not be able to sell our products at a profit. 9 In addition, in the past, there have been constraints in the supply of flash memory components. If these supply constraints were to recur, our suppliers may not allocate to us sufficient flash memory components to enable us to meet the orders of all our customers. If we are unable to satisfy the requirements of our customers or supply them in the volumes or densities they request, they will likely reduce future orders, eliminate us as a supplier or initiate legal proceedings against us for damages. Our reputation would likely also be harmed and we may not be able to replace any lost business with new customers. Irrespective of fluctuations in flash component pricing, to the extent we are not able to obtain sufficient supply of flash memory components, our results of operations would be adversely affected. We may be forced to lower the selling price of our products disproportionately to the price at which we purchase the flash memory components. We may also be forced to sell our products at lower, and in some cases negative, gross margins. Certain of our supply agreements include pricing terms for flash memory components that are linked to the cost of manufacturing such components and not to then prevailing market price for flash memory components. If the market price for such flash memory components decreases at a rate faster than the decrease in the cost of manufacturing such components, we may be forced to lower the selling price of our products disproportionately to the price at which we purchase the flash memory components, which may result in our selling our products at lower, and in some cases negative, gross margins, which could negatively affect our profitability. From time to time, our terms with some of our customers may provide for prices that are fixed for a certain period. We determine these prices based upon, among other factors, our expectations as to the anticipated decline in the cost of components required to manufacture these products. To the extent costs do not decline in line with our expectations, we would be required to sell our products at lower, and in some cases negative, gross margins, which could negatively affect our profitability. Our business is seasonal, which may lead to fluctuations in our product sales and could adversely affect our sales and profitability in the first half of our fiscal year. Sales of our mDrive and mDOC products are generally subject to the seasonal purchasing patterns of consumer end-users. Due to end-of-year holiday demand, we have historically experienced stronger demand for our mDOC products in the second half of each fiscal year, followed by weaker demand in the first half of the following fiscal year. Similarly, we have experienced stronger demand for our mDrive products in the fourth quarter, followed by weaker demand in the first half of the following year. We expect this seasonality to continue in the future, which, in general, adversely affects our sales and profitability in the first half of our fiscal year. Excess or obsolete inventory could adversely affect our gross margins. We may accumulate a higher level of inventory of raw materials, including flash memory components, and finished goods than we need due to various reasons including: • an anticipation of a shortage or end-of-life in components; • unrealized sales forecasts; • long-term commitments to our suppliers for certain components without back-to-back commitments from our customers to purchase finished products; • purchases of inventory to utilize credits under our agreement with Hynix; • consignment sales to some of our customers; • cancellation of orders from customers; and • an anticipation of an increase in prices. In the event that we maintain a higher level of inventory than we need, certain components or products, if warehoused for too long, may be devalued due to a decrease in the market value of those components or products, or rendered obsolete, which might cause us to incur an inventory write-off. Any material devaluation or write-off of inventory would have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 10 Consignment sales require us to supply our products to our customers in advance of sales, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Under some of our customer agreements, we deliver finished goods inventory to our customers in their distribution hubs, where the inventory is held on consignment. Under such agreements, we are obligated to supply in advance based on our customer’s forecasts, but the customer is not obligated to purchase the products until it removes the product from the hub and takes title to the product, which it may do at its discretion. The time lag between our delivery and the customer taking title may be as long as weeks or months. To the extent the price for those products drops during that period, our customers benefit from the lower prices. In an environment of rapidly declining prices for flash memory components and corresponding rapid declines in prices for our products, we are exposed to the risk that our margins and profitability will be adversely affected by extended time gaps between delivery and transfer of title on our consignment sales. If we continue to grow, our growth may strain our operations infrastructure and our supply chain. In recent years, our revenues have grown significantly in response to increased customer demand. If this growth continues, it may strain our operations infrastructure and supply chain. To meet this growth, we substantially increased our employee base during 2004 and 2005, from approximately 362 employees on January 1, 2004 to approximately 822 employees on December 31, 2005, of whom 140 employees joined the company as a result of our acquisition of Microelectronica Espanola, a European SIM card manufacturer, in November 2005. If our growth continues, we will have to continue hiring additional employees. The hiring of new employees requires the allocation of resources for the training and management of the employees, and the integration of the employees into our existing staff. We also will need to identify and manage additional third-party subcontractors to accommodate the growth. In addition, our logistical infrastructure, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our anticipated growth, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on our key personnel, including our executive officers, the loss of whom could disrupt our business. Our success greatly depends on the continued contributions of our senior management and other key research and development, sales, finance, marketing and operations personnel, including Mr. Dov Moran, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in retaining our key personnel. Any loss of the services of these key personnel could adversely affect our business, at least until a suitable replacement is identified, hired and acclimated. We may not be able to sustain continued growth if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining additional qualified personnel. Our business’ success depends on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified management, technical, finance and sales and marketing personnel. In particular, we require highly qualified technical personnel who are capable of developing technologies and products and providing the technical support required by our customers. Further, to the extent we continue to experience rapid growth, we will need management personnel who can effectively manage that growth as well as ensure that our organization adapts effectively to that growth. Individuals who possess these qualifications are in high demand, and we may not be successful in attracting, integrating and retaining them when and as needed in the various geographic regions in which we operate. In the past, we have, from time to time, experienced difficulty hiring the necessary engineering and sales and marketing personnel to support our growth. Our business depends significantly upon sales of products in the consumer market. This market is extremely competitive and is highly susceptible to fluctuations in demand. Our mDrive and mDOC products are designed for consumer electronic applications. The consumer market is intensely competitive and price sensitive. Sales of consumer electronic products have historically depended upon consumer discretionary spending. Consumers may defer or alter purchasing decisions based on economic conditions or other factors, and accordingly could reduce demand for our products, or products of our customers which incorporate our products. Softening consumer demand for consumer electronic products has in the past caused a decline in the demand for our products. As a result, there is uncertainty with respect to our expected revenues, and delays or reductions in consumer spending on electronics and related products could adversely affect our revenues and operating results. 11 Our business will be harmed if operating system vendors do not continue to support our software and include our software with their operating systems. Our marketing strategy for mDOC relies on our software being included in major operating systems. These operating systems are constantly being updated. If we are unable to maintain or obtain the support of major operating systems for our products, if the developers and distributors of major operating systems choose to support a competing product instead of our own or support other competing solutions together with our solution, or if other operating systems that do not include our software achieve market acceptance, this could adversely impact sales and accordingly have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on the ability of original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, and consumer electronics companies who purchase our products to achieve broad market acceptance for their products. If these OEMs and consumer electronics companies do not succeed in selling their products, this will reduce demand for our products and our revenues will be adversely affected. Our customers are primarily OEMs and consumer electronics companies who repackage or resell our products under their own private label to consumers or incorporate our products into their own products, which are then sold to consumers. We depend upon the success of our customers and the broad market acceptance of their products. To the extent that consumers choose to purchase USB flash drives or multimedia mobile handsets from competitors of our customers, our revenues and operating results will be adversely affected. We may increase our direct sales to retailers, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition to selling our products to OEMs, we also market our products directly to retailers. To the extent we increase our direct sales to retailers, we will be exposed to additional risks, including potentially losing OEM customers who view our direct sales efforts as competitive, as well as risks inherent in direct sales efforts, such as increased sales and marketing expenditures, having to provide rebates to retailers, and more frequent and rapid selling price declines. If these risks materialize, they could adversely affect our results of operations. Undetected hardware and software errors or defects may increase our costs and impair the market acceptance of our products. Our products may contain undetected errors or defects. These could result either from errors or defects in software, components or products designed or manufactured by or for us that we fail to detect, or errors or defects in software, components or products supplied by third parties and which are incorporated into our products. Some of our customers integrate our products into their applications together with products they acquire from other vendors. As a result, when problems occur in an application, it may be difficult to identify the component that caused the problem. Regardless of the source of these errors or defects, we will need to divert the attention of engineering personnel from our product development and support efforts to address the detection of the errors or defects. These errors or defects could cause us to incur warranty or repair costs, liability claims or delays. We could be forced to recall products that were already sold into the market by our customers. Our insurance policies may not provide sufficient protection should a claim be asserted against us. Moreover, the occurrence of errors or defects, whether caused by our products or the products of another vendor, may significantly harm our relations with customers, or result in the loss of customers, injure our reputation and impair market acceptance of our products. We may make investments in companies or technologies, which may distract our management and disrupt or otherwise harm our business, and may prove to be unsuccessful. One of our strategies is to make investments in complementary businesses, technologies or products if appropriate opportunities arise. We have made several investments in companies or assets of companies in the past and we may in the future invest in additional businesses, products or technologies, some of which may be material investments. These investments could disrupt our business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, any investment in another company will subject us to that company’s risks and liabilities. To the extent that any company in which we invested in the past or any company in which we invest in the future thereafter loses value or does not succeed, we may lose part or all of our investment. We may also have to write down the value of our investment in our financial statements to the extent that the carrying value of an investment exceeds its fair market value. 12 We may make acquisitions that result in difficulties in integrating the operations, personnel and products of the acquired companies or result in significant charges or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations. As part of our growth strategy we may acquire companies, products or technologies in order to expand our existing markets, product offerings or sales channels or enhance our technological capabilities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates in the future, or if we do identify suitable candidates, that we will be able to make the acquisitions on commercially acceptable terms or at all. If we acquire another company, we could encounter difficulty integrating that company’s personnel, operations, technology and products into our own. The key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us. We may also discover that the acquired company’s business does not meet our expectations, or such business may encounter unforeseen difficulties after completion of the acquisition. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses, cause us to write down all or a material portion of our investment or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations. We may issue equity securities or securities convertible into equity to pay for any future acquisitions, which could be dilutive to our existing shareholders. We may use our cash to pay for acquisitions, which would reduce our cash reserves. We may also incur indebtedness to finance acquisitions. Furthermore, acquisitions may require one-time charges and can also result in a reduction in our earnings per share, increased debt or contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, amortization of intangible assets or impairment of goodwill, any of which could negatively impact our results of operations. Our acquisition of Microelectronica exposes us to risks associated with integrating a new business into our operations as well as risks associated with the SIM card market. In November 2005, we completed the acquisition of Microelectronica. We are in the process of integrating Microelectronica into our operations. The challenges of integrating the business operations of Microelectronica include demonstrating to our and Microelectronica’s customers that the acquisition will not adversely affect our or Microlectronica’s relationships with our respective customers, and persuading our personnel that the companies’ respective business cultures are compatible, and that we can over come differences in language, culture and time zones. To integrate both companies operations successfully, we need to retain the management, key employees and business partners of both companies. If we are unable to effectively complete the integration of the two companies’ operations, technologies and personnel in a timely and efficient manner, we may not realize the benefits we expect from the acquisition and our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, the SIM card market is significantly influenced by trends in the wireless communications industry. If demand for wireless products and services does not increase, or mobile network operators do not continue to experience positive growth or experience downturns, in particular in Europe and Latin America, our target geographic markets, our SIM card business could be adversely affected. In addition, due to the competitive market environment, suppliers to mobile network operators are under constant pressure to reduce selling prices, which could adversely affect our profitability. Our target markets are characterized by highly volatile demand, making it difficult for us to plan our operations. The USB flash drive market and the mobile handset market are characterized by highly volatile demand, making it difficult for us to plan our inventory levels, production plans and operations. For example, our USB flash drive customers expect us to fill orders quickly, often in as little as two weeks. Our raw materials suppliers, however, particularly those suppliers who supply us with flash memory components, require us to place orders months in advance. We must make commitments to our suppliers in advance of receiving orders from our customers based upon our forecast of expected customer demand. Similarly, our internal production plans and resource allocation are based upon our forecast of expected customer demand. Due to the volatility of demand, we risk over- or under-estimating customer demand in any given period. If we maintain inventory levels or increase production in anticipation of orders that do not materialize, or if we maintain insufficient inventory to meet the actual demand, our profitability will decline. Sales to a small number of customers represent a significant portion of our revenues. If we were to lose any of our significant customers, or if we experience a reduction in demand from them, our revenues and operating results would suffer. 13 More than half of our revenues come from a small number of customers. Specifically, sales to our top three customers accounted for approximately 30% of our revenues in 2003, 38% in 2004, and 33% in 2005, and sales to our top 10 customers accounted for approximately 55% of our revenues in 2003, 64% in 2004 and 62% in 2005. In addition, sales to two of our customers in 2004 and 2005 each represented more than 10% of our revenues in each of those years. If we were to lose any of our significant customers or experience any material reduction in orders from these customers, our revenues and operating results would suffer. Because the substantial majority of our sales are made by means of standard purchase orders rather than long-term commitments, we cannot assure you that these customers will continue to purchase quantities of our products at current levels, or at all. In particular, due to the nature of the market for our mDrive products, a customer can, with relatively little effort and investment, move from our product to a product of a competitor. This, combined with the relative ease with which our customers may terminate their business relationship with us, may cause a severe reduction in sales of our mDrive products over a very short period of time. We expect our operating results for at least the next several years to continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers. Our mDOC products target a small number of potential customers. If these customers decline to purchase our products, we would have a limited market, if any, for sale of these products, which could adversely affect our gross margins and results of operations. In the mobile handset market, we manufacture a limited number of versions of our mDOC products to accommodate the handset design parameters of a small number of potential large customers. Due to the size of these customers and their sales forecasts for the handset that will incorporate our product, we endeavor to build a meaningful inventory position in these products in advance of any orders. These customers, however, have no obligation to buy our products. To the extent any of these customers decline to purchase the version we designed because the handset design is not commercialized or is discontinued, we would be left with inventory that would have a limited market, if any, for sale. This could require us to devalue or write-off the inventory, which would adversely affect our gross margins and results of operation. We customize our mDOC product to meet our customers’ design requirements, exposing us to the risk of obsolete inventory and lower gross margins. Our mDOC is incorporated into the design of our customers’ products. We often customize our product by combining the mDOC with other memory chips in a single compact package. After a design win, our customers provide us with forecasts of their anticipated requirements, based on which we produce customized products in anticipation of the customer purchasing our product for their new device. However, the customer is not obligated to purchase our product until it places purchase orders with us, and may decide prior to placing orders not to commercialize their new device, or to order less than initially forecasted, thereby rendering our inventory of customized products or a portion thereof obsolete. Obsolete inventory will reduce our gross margins and could adversely affect our profitability. Increased operating expense levels will harm our business if our revenues do not grow. We expect our operating expenses to increase due primarily to planned increases in sales and marketing and research and development activities to support our growth plan. If our revenues do not increase at least proportionately to our operating expenses, or if revenues decrease or do not meet expectations, and we are not able to reduce our operating expenses in the short term, or at all, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. We are required to record a compensation expense in connection with stock option grants, which adversely affects our results of operations. Option grants have represented a significant element of our compensation package to employees in the past, and we expect to continue to issue options to our employees in the future. We are required to apply the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s (FASB) recently issued accounting Standard FAS No. 123(R), “Shared-Based Payment,” which requires the fair value of all equity-based awards granted to employees to be recognized in financial statements beginning in the first quarter of 2006. The result is that we record an expense with respect to stock option grants, even if the exercise price of the stock options is equal to the market price of the underlying shares on the date of grant, which adversely affects our results of operations. 14 We may be subject to claims relating to the termination by us of our agreement with Samsung. On April 6, 2006, we announced that we terminated our December 2003 agreement with Samsung because of Samsung’s failure to abide by its supply commitments under the agreement’s terms. Samsung has indicated to us that it does not believe that we had cause to validly terminate the agreement pursuant to its terms. Although we believe that we validly terminated the agreement, we could be subject to claims made by Samsung related to our decision to terminate the agreement. Any such claims could be costly and could divert the efforts of our key management personnel, and the outcome of any such claim would be uncertain. RISKS RELATED TO DEVELOPMENT AND MARKETING OF NEW PRODUCTS We will not be able to grow unless our target markets continue to grow and we are able to meet the changing needs of these markets. Sales to the mobile handset and portable device market accounted for approximately $139.8 million of our revenues in 2005, an increase of 100% as compared to 2004, and approximately $69.8 million of our revenues in 2004, an increase of 302% as compared to 2003. Sales to the mobile handset and portable device market are primarily related to the demand for multimedia mobile handsets. We cannot assure you that this market will continue to grow, that our data storage solutions for multimedia mobile handsets will continue to achieve market acceptance, that the supply of flash memory components will be available or that our products will be included in the multimedia mobile handsets that achieve broader market acceptance. Most multimedia mobile handsets currently do not use or need embedded high capacity data storage, and we cannot assure you that the requirement for embedded high capacity data storage in that market will grow or that handset manufacturers and OEMs will select mDOC as their solution for embedded data storage. If sales of multimedia mobile handsets do not continue to grow as anticipated, or if mDOC is not designed into leading multimedia mobile handsets, or if our mDOC products’ prices are not competitive, then sales of our mDOC products will decrease or will not grow as anticipated, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Sales to the USB flash drive market accounted for approximately $415.4 million of our revenues of 2005, an increase of 40% as compared to 2004, and approximately $297.2 million of our revenues in 2004, an increase of 275% as compared to 2003. We cannot assure you that this market will continue to grow or that our products will be accepted as the preferred solution by OEMs, consumer electronics companies, retailers and consumer end-users. If demand for USB flash drives does not continue to grow as anticipated, or the mDrive is not chosen by OEMs, consumer electronic companies, retailers and consumer end-users as their preferred solution, or if our mDrive products’ prices are not competitive, then sales of our mDrive products will decrease or will not grow as anticipated, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our business will be harmed if we fail to anticipate new technological changes or to introduce new products in a timely manner. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards. The introduction of products embodying new technology and the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable. Although we design our products to fit and match certain market standard interfaces, some of these interfaces may change over a relatively short period, which may cause our then existing products to become obsolete while possibly enabling competing products. Our ability to anticipate changes in technology and industry standards and interfaces, and to successfully develop and introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis, will be a critical factor in our ability to grow and to remain competitive. In addition, the anticipated development schedules for high technology companies are inherently difficult to predict and are subject to change as a result of shifting priorities in response to customers’ requirements and product introductions from competitors. Our inability, for technological or other reasons, to develop products and product enhancements that are technologically competitive, responsive to customer needs or competitively priced would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 We cannot assure you that any new products or technologies we develop will be commercially successful. We continually seek to develop new products and technologies. For example, in October 2004, we announced our intention to develop the mSIM MegaSIM card module, a universal subscriber identification management (SIM) card that incorporates high capacity embedded data storage. This product is expected to be commercially available in the second half of 2006, and the market for this product is in its initial stages. We have also announced other new products and technologies, such as our U3 Smart Drives, H3 mDOC, mTrust (previously named Xkey) and, most recently, our x4 technology. We anticipate announcing additional new products and technologies in the future, including products or technologies that could represent advancements over current product and technologies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully utilize the benefits of any new technology to our advantage and that any new products or technologies we develop will be commercially successful. Further, the introduction and market acceptance of new products can at times be related to the adoption of uniform standards for implementation of those products, and customers may delay adopting our products until the standards have been finalized. We do not know if the market for our new products and technologies will develop, if uniform standards will be timely adopted, whether we will be able to compete successfully in the market, or whether the market will be overtaken by competing technologies or other products. For example, specific risks associated with our x4 technology include: • difficulties in using 4-bit/cell NAND flash and unforeseen difficulties that flash manufacturers may experience in the production of x4 technology-enabled flash components, including as a result of unexpected changes in the manufacturing process and unexpected delays in the production of such flash components; • the failure of manufacturers to realize cost savings through the utilization of the x4 technology; and • any failure, delays or difficulties we may experience in negotiating new partnerships with flash manufacturers utilizing our x4 technology that are profitable for us and the risk that such partnerships may ultimately not be profitable for us. Further, it will take time for our new products and technologies to be accepted and for revenues to be generated from them, if this happens at all. To the extent our new products and technologies do not enjoy market acceptance, we may not be able to recoup our research and development and sales and marketing expenditures on the product or technology. In transitioning to new technologies and processes, we face design and production risks that may cause significant product delays that could harm our business. The flash memory market continues to enjoy successively higher memory capacities at lower costs per megabyte due to the implementation over time of more advanced technologies and manufacturing processes. In addition, other components used in our products, such as ASICs (application specific integrated circuits), continue to achieve technological advances, and must be replaced or upgraded from time to time in order for us to remain competitive. Our success depends on our ability to continuously redesign our products to integrate with the latest flash memory technologies and manufacturing processes and other new components. The transition to new technologies and processes is highly complex and requires new designs, components, testing and qualification processes. We cannot assure you that we will be able to timely adapt our products to new emerging technologies or offer such new products at competitive prices, or that we will not suffer from design and quality issues in connection with the transition to new technologies. We cannot assure you that we, along with our suppliers and subcontractors, will successfully develop and bring into full production with acceptable yields and reliability products based on these technologies and processes, or that any development or production ramp-up will be completed in a timely or cost-effective manner. If we are not successful in adapting to new technologies or if our transition to these new technologies is too slow or too costly, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. RISKS RELATED TO THIRD PARTY MANUFACTURERS, SUPPLIERS AND SUBCONTRACTORS We primarily depend on Toshiba and Hynix for flash memory components. Any shortage or disruption in our supply from our sources, changes in the manufacturing costs of such sources or achievement of lower yield than expected will adversely affect our results. Our flash memory based products require flash memory components, which are currently primarily supplied by Toshiba (directly and through the Venture) and Hynix, or with respect to some components, by only one of these suppliers. We expect that we will depend upon our current principal suppliers for a significant portion of our anticipated flash memory requirements for the foreseeable future. While we have secured commitments from our principal suppliers to provide us with a defined amount of flash products, we are at risk to the extent any of our current suppliers: 16 • is unable or unwilling to meet, or is otherwise restricted from meeting, our supply needs; • fails to comply with its supply commitment to us, in terms of volumes, pricing or the timing of the supply of flash memory components; • closes down or downsizes its flash memory components fabrication business; • terminates its agreements or supply relationship with us at any time; • reduces its flash production; • supplies us with flash memory components with a lower than customary yield; • experiences disruption in supply due to natural disaster, power failure, labor unrest or other causes; • does not have rights to the intellectual property and/or technology necessary to supply components to us; or • does not continue to invest in the necessary advancements to its flash memory technology and flash memory products or fails to meet new technology standards. Any of these risks could impair our ability to supply products to our customers and cause our business, financial condition and operating results to be adversely affected. As the flash memory components supply commitments that we have secured from our principal suppliers are at times linked to the aggregate production of such components by these suppliers, any reductions in their aggregate flash production may adversely affect us. Further, as a result of our termination of our agreement with Samsung, we may encounter greater challenges in sourcing sufficient flash memory components to meet our needs. Our gross margins can be adversely affected by the mix of our flash supply sources. We have secured commitments from our principal suppliers to provide us with a defined amount of flash memory components and products at attractive terms, which terms vary between suppliers. Each of our agreements with these suppliers has different capacity commitments and pricing terms. The capacity to which we are entitled under each agreement is generally fixed within any given period. Due to our sales growth, we have at times exceeded these defined amounts, which required us to purchase additional flash components from either our current suppliers or other sources at higher prices. Subject to our contractual purchase commitments, we strive to optimize our purchases from our suppliers by first purchasing components from the supplier that offers us the best relative pricing terms, until we exhaust the quantity available to us from that supplier at those terms, and then purchasing from the supplier that offers us the next best pricing terms. As a result, incremental increases in sales in a given period will generally be sourced from a supplier that offers us less attractive pricing terms than our average pricing terms for sales previously made during that period, thereby reducing our overall gross margin. Our overall gross margins will vary depending upon the mix and pricing of flash memory components we purchase from our various flash suppliers, changes in the manufacturing costs of our main flash partners and the proportion the total flash memory components we require in any given period in excess of our existing commitments. Unless we are able to secure additional commitments for flash memory components at attractive prices, as our revenues continue to grow, our overall product gross margin will decline, which could reduce our profitability. We depend on Toshiba as a single source to manufacture certain of our mDOC products, and we may depend on each of Toshiba and Hynix as a single source for other mDOC products. Any delay or disruption in our receipt of these products from Toshiba or Hynix may adversely affect our results. At present, Toshiba manufacturers some of our mDOC products. In addition, we are working with Toshiba and Hynix on the joint development of other mDOC products, for which each may be a sole source of supply of these products. For our mDOC products, Toshiba and Hynix supply the flash memory components and in many cases also manufacture and assemble the finished product. If either Toshiba or Hynix were to: • breach its obligations under its agreements with us; • close down or downsize its flash memory fabrication business; • experience manufacturing problems or delays for any reason, including difficulty in obtaining sufficient raw materials, work stoppages, excessive demand for its manufacturing capacity or other causes; or • for any other reason be unable to sell us mDOC products at competitive prices, 17 we may be unable to fill our customers’ orders for these products in a timely fashion or at all or be unable to offer these products at competitive prices. This could lead our customers to reduce future orders, eliminate us as a supplier or initiate legal proceedings against us for damages. Our reputation would likely also be harmed and we may not be able to replace any lost business with new customers. In addition, having a single source for the mDOC might deter mobile handset vendors from accepting our mDOC product line as the data storage solution for their handsets, which would similarly result in lost sales and affect the acceptance of our product in the relevant market. Increased sales of customized products sourced from Toshiba will decrease our overall gross margins and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Some of the flash memory products we purchase from Toshiba are customized for us. These customized products are produced with less technologically advanced manufacturing processes than standard flash memory components and therefore have relatively higher manufacturing costs. Due to the relatively higher cost of the customized products we source from Toshiba, these products have relatively lower gross margins. As the proportion of our revenues arising from such products increases, our overall gross margins will decrease, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We face various risks under our agreement with Hynix, including the potential loss of a significant portion of our $100 million investment under that agreement. In August 2005, we entered into an agreement with Hynix under which we purchased approximately $100 million of equipment from several vendors, which was placed at Hynix’s manufacturing facility. Under the agreement, in exchange for the equipment we purchased for Hynix, we are entitled to receive, among other things, credits of an aggregate of $100 million on products that we purchase from Hynix over the term of the agreement. If we fail to purchase from Hynix a minimum amount of products during any quarter, we may relinquish a proportional amount of such credits. If the purchase price that we agreed upon in our agreement with Hynix is not as favorable to us as prices offered by other flash vendors, we may (a) elect not to purchase the minimum amount of products from Hynix during any given quarter, in which event we may relinquish a proportional amount of the credits arising from the $100 million that we have invested under the Hynix agreement, or (b) elect to purchase products from Hynix even if we could obtain similar products from third parties at more competitive prices, which may result in lower gross margins. While our agreement requires Hynix to purchase the equipment from us upon a termination of the agreement for a purchase price equal to the full uncredited portion of the equipment purchase price, we face a risk that in certain events of termination (such as termination due to bankruptcy or reorganization of Hynix or other reasons, including intellectual property claims, Hynix would not be able to pay us the full uncredited portion of the equipment purchase price. We may also not be able to obtain physical possession of the equipment or be considered a secured creditor of Hynix upon such events. Even if we were to recover possession of the equipment upon termination of the agreement, the market value of the equipment (i.e., the price for which we could sell the equipment to third parties) may be less than the uncredited portion of the equipment purchase price, resulting in a loss to us. In any of the events described above, we face a risk of relinquishing a significant portion of the $100 million that we invested in the purchase of equipment and the additional risk of purchasing products from Hynix on unfavorable terms, either of which would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not succeed in finding opportunities to enter into additional supply transactions with flash memory manufacturers, or these transactions may prove to be unsuccessful.In addition, we will need to raise significant financing for these transactions, which financing will likely dilute significantly our shareholders’ ownership percentage in us or impose on us restrictions and covenants. In order to secure additional sources of supply for flash memory components on favorable terms, our strategy is to seek to enter into material transactions with flash memory manufacturers. These transactions could take various forms, including pre-payments, equity investments, acquisitions or investments in capital equipment or other cash outlays or commitments. An example of this type of transaction is our agreement with Hynix. We intend to seek to enter into other material transactions with flash memory manufacturers in the future. We will need to raise significant financing to fund these transactions, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain such additional financing on favorable terms, if at all. If additional financing is raised through the issuance of equity securities, the value of our shares may decrease, the ownership percentage of our then current shareholders may be diluted and such equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior or more advantageous to those of the holders of our ordinary shares. If additional financing is raised through issuance of debt securities, we may become subject to various covenants and restrictions that typically accompany debt financing, and complying with such covenants and restrictions may be burdensome. Further, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in entering into such transactions or, upon entering into such transactions, that these transactions will be successful in achieving our objectives of securing additional capacity of flash memory components on favorable terms. Negotiating transactions of this nature requires significant time and efforts on the part of our management and employees, and could be disruptive to our ongoing business. In addition, if we are not successful in entering into such transactions, we may have difficulty securing flash memory components on favorable terms, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, even upon entering into such transactions, if these transactions are not successful, we may lose all or a material portion of our investment and incur additional expenses, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 18 Difficulty in estimating supply requirements may cause us to overestimate our requirements and build excess inventories, or underestimate our requirements and have a shortage of supply, either of which will harm our financial results. Under the terms of our agreements with Toshiba and Hynix, we are obligated to provide advance rolling forecasts of anticipated requirements for flash memory components and mDOC products. Generally, the estimates for the first few months of each rolling forecast we provide are binding commitments and cannot be cancelled, and the estimates for the remaining months of the forecast may only be changed by a certain percentage from the previous month’s forecast. This limits our ability to react to fluctuations in demand for our products. Because a significant portion of our products is sold into the consumer market, it is difficult to forecast future sales accurately. In addition, sales visibility remains limited because a substantial majority of our quarterly sales are from orders received and fulfilled in the same quarter, which makes accurate forecasting difficult. Some of our customers also require us to commit to having sufficient available supply of products to meet their purchase forecasts, without actually committing themselves to making any purchases until they place binding purchase orders. If we underestimate our needs when we place orders, we will be unable to satisfy the requirements of our customers or supply them in the volumes they request. This could lead them to reduce future orders, eliminate us as a supplier or initiate legal proceedings against us for damages. Our reputation would likely also be harmed and we may not be able to replace any lost business with new customers. Alternatively, if we overestimate our need for products, we could increase our inventory levels, which could result in a write-down of that inventory due to a drop in flash component prices or obsolescence. Either of these situations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. If our flash memory suppliers are unable to provide us with sufficient quantities of flash memory in a timely manner at competitive prices, we would have to seek alternate suppliers, which may not be available, and this would adversely affect our results. If we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of flash memory from Toshiba (either directly or through the Venture) or Hynix at competitive prices, or if Toshiba or Hynix are unable or unwilling to timely satisfy our requirements on competitive terms, and other flash memory suppliers do not meet our additional capacity requirements in a timely manner and at competitive prices, we would not be able to manufacture and deliver flash memory products to satisfy our customers’ requirements. As a result of our termination of our agreement with Samsung, we may encounter greater challenges in sourcing sufficient flash memory components to meet our needs. Furthermore, as a result of the significant increase in the demand for our products, our needs for flash components grew significantly and may represent a significant percentage of the flash production of our partners and as a result it will be more difficult for our suppliers to meet our supply needs. If we are unable to satisfy the requirements of our customers or supply them in the volumes they request, they will likely reduce future orders, eliminate us as a supplier or initiate legal proceedings against us for damages. Our reputation would likely also be harmed and we may not be able to replace any lost business with new customers. Even if we are able to obtain flash memory in sufficient volumes and on schedules that permit us to satisfy our delivery requirements, we cannot assure you that the prices charged by these suppliers will enable us to compete effectively in our market. If we are unable to obtain flash memory at competitive prices, our margins would decline unless we could raise the prices of our products in a commensurate manner or offset the cost increases elsewhere. The existing competitive conditions may not permit us to do so, which would adversely impact our gross margins and operating results. 19 We depend on a limited number of third party subcontractors to manufacture and assemble our products, and any delay or disruption in the supply of these products will adversely affect our results. We are dependent on a limited number of third party subcontractors. Any significant problems that occur at our subcontractors, or their failure to perform at the level we expect, could lead to product shortages or quality assurance problems. In addition, we do not have long-term agreements with our subcontractors. As a result, these subcontractors may terminate their relationships with us at any time, generally upon limited advance notice. At times, some of our subcontractors operate at peak capacity, and may not have available capacity to meet our manufacturing needs. If any of our subcontractors are unable or unwilling to continue to manufacture, assemble and deliver products of acceptable quality, at acceptable costs, in sufficient volumes and in a timely manner, we will be unable to satisfy the requirements of our customers or supply them in the volumes they request. This could lead our customers to reduce future orders, eliminate us as a supplier or initiate legal proceedings against us for damages. Our reputation would likely also be harmed and we may not be able to replace any lost business with new customers. In particular, the vast majority of our mDrive products are manufactured and assembled by Global Brands Manufacturing Limited, or GBM, our principal subcontractor. The risks noted above would all apply to GBM. Specifically, if GBM were unable or unwilling to continue to act as our subcontractor, we would not be able to switch our production to another subcontractor without significant advance notice, which could adversely affect our ability to supply mDrive products to our customers. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in agreeing on terms with any additional subcontractor, or that we will be able to timely switch our production to an additional subcontractor should GBM or any other subcontractors be unable or unwilling to continue working with us. In either case, we would be required to qualify new subcontractors, which could take as much as six months or longer, as well as result in unforeseen operations problems, and our results may be adversely affected. We depend on third parties for the supply and quality of components required for the manufacture of our products, and any delay or disruption in the supply of these products will adversely affect our results. We depend on third parties to manufacture and supply components for our products, including the capacitors, printed circuit boards and the ASIC components used in our mDrive and in some of our mDOC products. For some components, we rely on a single source of supply. For example, Atmel Sarl supplies us with certain ASIC components developed specifically for some of our products. In addition, various third parties are single source suppliers of some off-the-shelf ASIC components. Because we depend on single suppliers for certain key components, and do not have a long-term supply contract with our suppliers, we face the risk of inadequate component supply, price increases, late deliveries and poor component quality, as any supplier may terminate their relationships with us or pursue other relationships with our competitors. If we were to lose our relationship with these suppliers, the lead time required to qualify new suppliers could be as long as six months. Also, if we lose our single suppliers or these suppliers are otherwise unable to satisfy our volume and delivery schedule requirements, it may be difficult to locate any suppliers who have the ability to develop, manufacture and deliver the specialized components we need for our products in the desired lead times and quality. Our component suppliers are often operating at peak capacity. At times, the demand for components used in our products has exceeded available supply, and suppliers have raised prices or been forced to allocate limited resources among competing purchasers. On certain occasions we have been unable to obtain adequate supplies of certain components, which has resulted in delayed or lost sales of our products. In other cases, we have been required to keep unusually large component inventories in order to avoid shortages. We cannot assure you that shortages will not occur in the future. Furthermore, if we experience quality problems from any of our component suppliers, it could take us a significant amount of time to identify the problem as associated with a particular component, ascertain whether this is as a result of a design or a manufacturing flaw and either correct the problem and, if possible, replace the components or find an alternate source of supply. Any such quality problem or delay could, in addition to causing us lost sales, detrimentally affect our reputation in the market and cause us to incur additional costs as a result of the recall and replacement of affected products. 20 If we are not successful in developing relationships with suppliers of memory components that utilize new memory technologies, our business could be adversely affected. The market for memory components is characterized by rapidly changing technology. Several semiconductor manufacturers are currently developing new memory technologies that would supplement or compete with existing flash memory technologies and other memory components. If these new memory technologies gain widespread market acceptance and we are not successful in developing relationships with the suppliers of these new memory technologies and memory components or we are unable to develop products based on these new technologies, our business could be adversely affected. Loss of or damage to inventory held by our subcontractors or OEM customers could damage our relationships with our customers and harm our business. Some of our inventory is held directly by our third party subcontractors or in our OEM customers’ warehouse facilities and is outside of our physical control. We may be exposed to additional risks relating to this inventory, including loss of or damage to the inventory. In the event that inventory held by our third party subcontractors or OEM customers or that is on consignment with our customers is damaged and we are unable to timely replace that inventory, we may not be able to meet our customers’ orders, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR PRIOR STOCK OPTION GRANTS We have restated our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2004 and 2005 and for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2005 and certain consolidated financial information as of December 31, 2003 and as of and for years ended December 31, 1999, 2000, 2001 and 2002 to recognize primarily non-cash stock-based compensation expense related to prior stock option grants. Our share price has declined and may decline further. In June 2006, our Board of Directors appointed a special committee to conduct an internal review of prior stock option grants. Based on the Special Committee’s findings that, for accounting purposes, the actual measurement dates of certain past stock option grants differed from the previously determined measurement dates for such grants, we have determined that we should have recognized primarily non-cash stock-based compensation expense which was not previously accounted for in our previously issued financial statements. Accordingly, we have restated our consolidated financial statements as discussed in Item 5A. “Operating Results – Internal Review of Stock Option Grants and Restatemetn of Consolidated Financial Information”. The market price of our shares decreased after our announcement of the commencement of the internal review and our subsequent announcement that we were delaying the filing of our Annual Report and intended to restate certain of our previously issued financial information as described herein. The market price of our shares may decline further following the disclosure contained herein of the details of the restatement and the findings and recommendations of the Special Committee and the actions of the Board of Directors related thereto. The staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC Staff”) has commenced an informal investigation relating to grants and exercises of our stock options. The outcome of this informal investigation is uncertain and the Securities and Exchange Commission may take action against us and/or our directors, officers, other employees and former employees, which may adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. We voluntarily notified the SEC Staff on June 13, 2006 of the commencement of our internal review. Thereafter, we received a letter from the SEC Staff requesting that we voluntarily provide certain documents and information in connection with an informal investigation relating to the grant and exercise of our stock options. We are cooperating fully with the SEC Staff. This investigation will likely consume time of our senior management, may divert their attention from running our business and will cause us to incur related professional expenses, all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The outcome of the SEC Staff’s investigation is uncertain. We cannot assure you that the process, findings and recommendations of the Special Committee or our Board of Directors’ actions with respect to such recomendations will be satisfactory to the SEC Staff. The SEC Staff may in the future take action against us and/or our directors, officers, other employees and former employees, which may adversly impact our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. The SEC Staff may also require us to make additional changes to our financial information or other disclosures in respect of previous grants and exercises of our stock options, and those changes may result in further restatements of the financial information for the years restated in this Annual Report and changes in other years or other amendments to previously filed reports. Any further restatement or amendments may adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 In addition, other regulatory or law enforcement authorities may also commence investigations relating to grants and exercises of our stock options. Depending on the outcome of any such investigations, such authorities may also take actions against us and/or our directors, officers, other employees and former employees, which may adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. Civil law suits may be filed against us and against our directors, officers, other employees and former employees in connection with our prior stock option grant practices and the restatement, and our stock price and business and operations may suffer as a result. Although no related civil law suits have been filed to date, it is possible that actions may be filed against us and/or against our directors, officers, other employees and former employees by shareholders and other third parties, claiming that they have suffered losses as a result of our prior stock option grant practices and the restatement. We are required to indemnify our directors and certain members of management in respect of losses they may suffer generally in their capacity as directors and officers, including as a result of any such law suits, and we may advance defense costs, unless certain conditions exist. We cannot assure you that we or our directors, officers, other employees or former employees will be successful in defending against any such law suits. If any such law suits are successful, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Also, the attention of our directors and senior management may be diverted by such law suits and we will incur related professional expenses, all of which may also adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we implement all of the remedial measures recommended by the Special Committee to improve our stock option grant practices, we cannot assure you that our disclosure controls and procedures will be adequate or sufficient to prevent errors or fraud. If we fail to detect any material errors or fraud in a timely manner, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting with respect to accounting for stock option grants as a result of our failure to determine the proper measurement dates for measuring compensation expense relating to certain past stock option grants. Solely as a result of this material weakness, we have concluded that as of December 31, 2005 our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective at a reasonable assurance level. We have adopted, and are in the process of implementing, certain remedial measures described elsewhere in this Annual Report to address this material weakness. We cannot assure you when we will complete the implementation of these measures, and, in any event, the effectiveness of any system of disclosure controls and procedures is subject to certain limitations, including the exercise of judgment in designing, implementing and evaluating the controls and procedures, the assumptions used in identifying the likelihood of future events and the inability to eliminate misconduct completely. As a result, there can be no assurance that our disclosure controls and procedures have detected and will in the future detect all errors or fraud. Our failure to detect any material errors or fraud in a timely manner may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO COMPETITION We sell our products in a highly competitive industry, often in competition with larger companies with substantially greater resources. Our failure to compete effectively could hurt our business. The markets in which we compete are characterized by intense competition, rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards, rapidly declining average selling prices and rapid product obsolescence. Our mDOC, mDrive and other products compete with other flash data storage devices, standard flash memory components, hard drives and alternative data storage technologies. Our competitors include many large U.S. and international companies that have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, logistical infrastructure and support and other resources, greater access to component fabrication capacity, broader product lines and longer-standing relationships with customers than us. These factors may limit our ability to compete effectively with them. We expect competition to increase in the future from existing competitors and from other companies, including flash manufacturers, that may enter our existing or future markets with similar or alternative data storage solutions that may be less costly or provide additional features. 22 mDrive. Our mDrive product competes with other USB-compatible flash data storage devices, removable magnetic media, removable optical media, mini hard-drives, flash cards, MP3 players and other removable storage media. Our competitors in this market currently consist of U.S. and international companies that manufacture storage media, as well as numerous computer and computer-based peripherals manufacturers or hardware manufacturers, many of whom are located in the Far East where costs tend to be lower. Many of these competitors are vying for and attaining market share on the basis of aggressive pricing or marketing campaigns. In addition, we also currently experience and expect to continue to experience competition from large U.S. or international companies (including flash manufacturers) that have substantially greater resources, greater access to component fabrication capacity, often at substantially lower costs, broader product lines and longer-standing relationships with customers than we do. mDOC. Our mDOC products compete with other flash and flash-based memory solutions, including those offered by flash manufacturers. The flash manufacturers have an advantage over us in that they have substantially greater financial, sales, technical, marketing, logistical infrastructure and support and other resources, greater access to component fabrication capacity at substantially lower costs, broader product lines and longer-standing relationships with customers than we do. In particular, flash manufacturers have a significant cost advantage over us, which they could exploit to our detriment if they decided to compete more aggressively in our markets, leading to substantial pricing pressures, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Since these competitors also own their own fabrication facilities, they would also have more effective control over supply. In addition, some manufacturers of multimedia mobile handsets are using or plan to use multi-chip packaging which integrates flash and other memory chips. Some of our competitors already manufacture, in addition to flash, other memory chips, and may therefore have a competitive advantage over us with respect to time to market and costs for products incorporating multi-chip packaging. These factors could lead to substantial pricing pressures, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Our data storage products compete with other products offering similar functionality, which could enjoy greater market acceptance and cause the sale of our products to decline. Our products are targeted at the personal data storage market. There are numerous technologies and products that have been designed for the personal data storage market, including removable magnetic media, removable optical media, flash cards, flash-based MP3 players and other removable storage media. Many of these products are substitute products, providing essentially the same, or possibly better, data storage functionality. To the extent any of these competing products or any products developed in the future enjoy greater market acceptance than our products, the market for our products may contract and our sales would decline, which could adversely affect our results of operations. For example, sales of high capacity MP3 players have recently enjoyed significant growth. If manufacturers of MP3 players were to market high capacity MP3 players for data storage as well as music storage or consumers were to use their MP3 players to store digital data files in addition to music, this could diminish the demand for USB flash drives in general and our mDrive in particular. Price competition could reduce our revenues and profitability. We have in the past experienced, and expect in the future to experience, severe price competition for our products, which adversely impacts our product gross margins and overall profitability. Moreover, price competition in the retail market could diminish the margins of our customers, which may cause our customers to significantly reduce their purchases in favor of other higher margin consumer electronics products. Any reduction in sales and gross margins could adversely affect our profitability. We may be unable to maintain market share due to supply constraints, which could reduce our revenues and profitability. The market for flash memory products undergoes varying periods of surplus and tight flash memory supply. During periods of excess supply in the market for our flash memory products, we may lose market share to competitors who aggressively lower their prices. Conversely, under conditions of tight flash memory supply, we may be unable to meet customer demand and maintain our market share. Our future growth depends in part on our ability to obtain sufficient flash memory components and other components to meet demand. If we are unable to do so in a timely manner, we may lose market share to our competitors, which could reduce our revenues and profitability. 23 We face competition in our target markets from some of our business partners due to our license or other agreements with our partners. We have entered into agreements with several of our business partners, including Toshiba, Sandisk, Hynix and Renesas, under which these parties may manufacture and sell products that incorporate technology covered by our patents or that is based upon our intellectual property and which compete with our products. In some cases, our business partners retain the license to use our intellectual property even if our agreements with them are terminated or expire, and we discontinue our business relationships with them. For example, pursuant to our agreements with Toshiba, Toshiba markets and sells the mDOC products to customers under Toshiba’s trademark. In addition, Toshiba markets and sells USB flash drives which compete with our mDrive products. Toshiba also has the right to directly market products that we may jointly develop in the future. We may enter into similar agreements in the future. Any current or future similar agreements may increase competition and may adversely impact our revenues and profitability. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Our business could suffer if third parties infringe upon our proprietary technology, and our patents and proprietary technology may not afford us sufficient protection from such infringement. Our success is dependent upon our proprietary technology. We currently rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark law, together with non-disclosure agreements, to establish and protect the proprietary rights and technology used in our products. However, these methods may not afford complete protection and we cannot assure you that: • any of our existing patents will not be invalidated; • patents will be issued for any of our pending applications; • any claims allowed from existing or pending patents will have sufficient scope or strength; • our patents will be issued in the primary countries where our products are sold in order to protect our rights and potential commercial advantage; or • our competitors will not be able to design their products around our patents or independently develop our trade secrets and know-how. We may be involved in litigation regarding our intellectual property rights, which would be costly and would divert the efforts of our key technical and management personnel. Given the developing nature of our markets and the related intellectual property, we cannot assure you that some of our competitors will not infringe our intellectual property rights, and thereby force us to incur substantial costs if we choose to defend our rights. Litigation involving intellectual property can be complex and extend for a protracted time and is often very expensive. We are currently involved in several opposition and revocation procedures where we have opposed third party patents in various jurisdictions. Intellectual property claims, whether or not meritorious, may result in the expenditure of significant financial resources, injunctions against us or the imposition of damages that we must pay and would also divert the efforts and attention of some of our key management and technical personnel. If we bring an intellectual property infringement action and are not successful, our competitors would be able to use similar technology to compete with us. Moreover, the defendant in such an action may successfully assert a counterclaim that our patents are invalid or unenforceable. Our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others and this could require us to pay damages and force us to stop manufacturing or selling certain of our products. Third parties may assert against us infringement claims or claims that we have violated their patent or infringed their copyright, trademark or other proprietary right. We currently are involved in one legal action in Singapore in which we were found by the court to be infringing on the rights of a third party and are awaiting the court’s ruling on damages. Oppositions to our patent applications have been filed by third parties in various jurisdictions. An infringement claim, even if not meritorious, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources by us. An adverse determination of any infringement claim could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, could require us to seek licenses from third parties or expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology and could prevent us from manufacturing, selling or using certain of our products. Any of these developments could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 24 We may be unable to license intellectual property to or from third parties as needed. We may desire or be required to obtain licenses from others in order to further develop, produce and market commercially viable products. We may also need to license some of our intellectual property to others in order to enable us to obtain cross-licenses to third-party patents. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain any required licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, that the patents underlying those licenses will be valid and enforceable or that the technology underlying those licenses will remain proprietary in nature. If we do obtain licenses from third parties, we may be required to pay license fees or royalty payments. In addition, if we are unable to obtain a license that is necessary to the manufacture of our products, we could be required to suspend the manufacture of products. We cannot assure you that we would be successful in redesigning our products or that the necessary licenses will be available under reasonable terms, or that our existing licensees will renew their licenses upon expiration, or that we will be successful in signing new licenses in the future. We may need to indemnify third parties for infringement claims related to our intellectual property. We historically have agreed to indemnify distributors, partners and customers for alleged patent infringement claims in connection with our technology or products. The scope of this indemnity varies, but may, in some instances, include indemnification for damages and expenses, including attorneys’ fees. We may periodically engage in litigation as a result of these indemnification obligations. Our insurance policies exclude coverage for third-party claims for patent infringement. Any future obligation to indemnify our distributors, partners and customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDEBTEDNESS Our indebtedness and debt service obligations have increased following the issuance of our convertible notes, and this may adversely affect our cash flow, cash position and stock price. In March 2005, we issued $75,000,000 aggregate principal amount of convertible notes. We intend to fulfill our debt service obligations from our existing cash, investments and operations and that of M-Systems Finance Inc., our wholly owned subsidiary that issued the convertible notes. In the future, if M-Systems Finance and we are unable to generate cash or raise additional cash financings sufficient to meet these obligations and need to use existing cash or liquidate investments in order to fund these obligations, we may have to delay or curtail research, development and commercialization programs. Our indebtedness could have significant additional negative consequences, including, without limitation: • requiring the dedication of a portion of our expected cash flow to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of our expected cash flow available for other purposes, including funding our research and development programs and other capital expenditures; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; and • placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources. The fundamental change provision of the indenture governing the convertible notes may deter potential acquirers and will restrict our ability to effect certain types of recapitalization transactions. Under the indenture governing the convertible notes, we are required to offer to purchase all of the outstanding convertible notes for cash upon the occurrence of certain fundamental changes. This provision could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, our company. For example, only in certain circumstances could a potential acquirer issue a combination of stock and cash in exchange for all of our outstanding ordinary shares without triggering the fundamental change provision. In addition, this fundamental change provision will limit our ability to effect certain types of recapitalization transactions. 25 RISKS RELATED TO OUR ISRAELI AND INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS Conditions in Israel may adversely affect our operations and may limit our ability to produce and sell our products. We are incorporated under Israeli law and our principal offices and research and development facilities and some of our manufacturing facilities are located in Israel. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors and a state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. We could be adversely affected by any major hostilities involving Israel, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners, a significant increase in inflation, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel. Since October 2000, there has been an increase in violence between Israel and the Palestinians, primarily but not exclusively in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. The election of representatives of the Hamas movement to a majority of seats in the Palestinian Legislative Council has created additional unrest and uncertainty. Recently, there has been a sharp increase in hostilities along Israel’s northern border with Lebanon and to a lesser extent in the Gaza Strip. There can be no assurance that such hostilities will not intensify. Ongoing and revived hostilities with the Palestinians or Arab countries might require more widespread military reserve service by some of our employees, which could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, several Arab and Muslim countries still restrict business with Israeli companies. We could be adversely affected by restrictive laws or policies directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses. Generally, all male adult citizens and permanent residents of Israel under the age of 45 can, unless exempt, be called up and obligated to perform active military reserve duty for as many as 36 days annually (beyond this age, they may be called up and obligated to take part in military training for as many as 13 days annually). Additionally, all Israeli residents of this age are subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. Many of our officers and employees are currently obligated to perform annual reserve duty. Although we have operated effectively under these requirements since we began operations, we cannot assess the full impact of these requirements on our workforce or business if political and military conditions should change, and we cannot predict the effect on us of any expansion or reduction of these obligations. The government programs and tax benefits that we currently receive require us to meet several conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our costs and taxes. We benefit from certain government programs and tax benefits, particularly as a result of tax exemptions and reductions resulting from the approved enterprise status granted to us by the Israeli government.. To be eligible for these programs and tax benefits, we must continue to meet conditions, including making specified investments in property and equipment and financing a percentage of investments with share capital. If we fail to meet such conditions in the future, the tax benefits would be canceled and we could be required to refund the tax benefits already received, together with an adjustment based on the Israeli consumer price index and an interest factor. These programs and tax benefits may not be continued in the future at their current levels or at any level. The Israeli government has reduced the benefits available under some of these programs in recent years, and Israeli governmental authorities have indicated that the government may further reduce or eliminate some of these benefits in the future. The termination or reduction of existing programs and tax benefits could increase our tax expenses, thereby reducing our profits or increasing our losses. In addition, the law and regulations prescribing the benefits provide an expiration date for the grant of new benefits. The expiration date has been extended several times in the past. The expiration date currently in effect is December 31, 2007, and no new benefits will be granted after that date unless the expiration date is extended again. There can be no assurance that new benefits will be available after December 31, 2007, or that existing benefits will be continued in the future at their current levels or at any level. On April 1, 2005, an amendment to Israel’s Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959, or the Capital Investments Law, came into effect and has significantly changed the provisions of the Capital Investments Law. The amendment limits the scope of enterprises which may be approved by the Investment Center by setting criteria for the approval of a facility as a Privileged Enterprise, such as provisions generally requiring that at least 25% of the Privileged Enterprise’s income will be derived from export. Additionally, the Capital Investments Law provides that terms and benefits included in any certificate of approval already granted will remain subject to the provisions of the law as they were on the date of such approval. Our existing approved enterprise status will generally not be subject to the provisions of the amendment. As a result of the amendment, tax-exempt income generated under the provisions of the new law will subject us to taxes upon distribution or liquidation and we may be required to record deferred tax liability with respect to such tax-exempt income. As of December 31, 2005, we did not generate income under the provision of the new law. 26 Certain governmental grants we have received for research and development expenditures may require us to pay royalties to the Israeli government with respect to revenues generated by us from the sale of products and technologies the development of which is financed through such grants. The terms of such grants may limit our ability to manufacture products and transfer technologies outside of Israel and require us to satisfy specified conditions. If we fail to satisfy these conditions, we may be limited in our ability to transfer the funded products and technologies outside of Israel and we may also be required to refund grants previously received together with interest and penalties. In connection with research and development grants received from the Office of the Chief Scientist of Israel, or the OCS, until 2005, we must pay royalties to the OCS on the revenue derived from the sale of products, technologies and services developed with a grant from the OCS. The terms of the OCS grants and the law pursuant to which grants are made may impair our ability to manufacture products or transfer technologies developed using OCS grants outside of Israel. The transfer to a non-Israeli entity of technology developed with OCS funding, including pursuant to a merger or similar transaction, and the transfer of rights related to the manufacture of more than 10% of a product developed with OCS funding are subject to approval by an OCS committee and to various conditions, including payment by us to the OCS of a percentage of the consideration paid to us or our shareholders in the transaction in which the technology is transferred. In connection with a merger or similar transaction, the amount payable may be a fraction of the consideration equal to the relative amount invested by the OCS in the development of the relevant technology compared to the total investment in our company, net of financial assets that we have at the time of the transaction, but in no event less than the amount of the grant. In addition, in the event that the committee believes that the consideration to be paid in a transaction requiring payment to the OCS pursuant to the provisions of the law described above does not reflect the true value of the technology or the company being acquired, it may determine an alternate value to be used as the basis for calculating the requisite payments. These restrictions may impair our ability to enter into agreements for those products or technologies, without OCS approval. We cannot be certain that any approval of the OCS will be obtained on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. Furthermore, in the event that we undertake a transaction involving the transfer to a non-Israeli entity of technology developed with OCS funding pursuant to a merger or similar transaction, the consideration available to our shareholders may be reduced by the amounts we are required to pay to the OCS. In connection with our grant applications, we have made certain representations, including information provided in periodic performance reports, and we have committed to certain performance-based covenants. The funding from the OCS is subject to the accuracy of these representations and covenants and to our compliance with the conditions and restrictions imposed by the OCS. If we fail to comply with any of these conditions or restrictions, we could be required to repay any grants previously received, together with an adjustment based on the Israeli consumer price index and an interest factor in addition to certain other penalties. In addition, if we fail to comply with any of these conditions or restrictions, we would likely be ineligible to receive OCS grants in the future. The inability to receive these grants would result in an increase in our research and development expenses. In late 2005, the Company reached a settlement with the OCS with respect to the royalties payable to the OCS accrued by the Company relating to certain long term research and development programs. The Company has recently joined an arrangement offered by the OCS to certain Israeli companies, under which companies with (i) more than 200 research and development personnel in Israel or (ii) revenues of over $100 million from manufacturing activities in Israel during the year preceding the grant application date, are entitled to research and development grants of up to 50% of their long term research and development expenses. Under this arrangement, the definition of long term research and development activity is the development of generic technology to be used for the planning or manufacturing of multiple new products. This arrangement does not provide for any royalties to be paid to the OCS; however, it subject to the limitations on the sale or transfer or sale of the supported technology, as described above. 27 It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us or our officers and directors or to assert U.S. securities law claims in Israel. We are incorporated in Israel. All of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States. Service of process on them may be difficult to effect in the United States. Furthermore, because a substantial portion of our assets are located in Israel, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of our directors and officers may not be collectible within the United States. An Israeli court may declare a judgment rendered by a foreign court in a civil matter, including judgments awarding monetary or other damages in non-civil matters, enforceable if it finds that: 1. the judgment was rendered by a court which was, according to Israeli law, competent to render it; 2. the judgment is no longer appealable; 3. the obligation in the judgment is enforceable according to the rules relating to the enforceability of judgments in Israel and the substance of the judgment is not contrary to public policy in Israel; and 4. the judgment can be executed in the state in which it was given. A foreign judgment will not be declared enforceable by Israeli courts if it was given in a state, the laws of which do not provide for the enforcement of judgments of Israeli courts (subject to exceptional cases) or if its enforcement is likely to prejudice the sovereignty or security of Israel. An Israeli court also will not declare a foreign judgment enforceable if it is proven to the Israeli court that: 1. the judgment was obtained by fraud; 2. there was no due process; 3. the judgment was given by a court not competent to render it according to the laws of private international law in Israel; 4. the judgment conflicts with another judgment that was given in the same matter between the same parties and which is still valid; or 5. at the time the action was brought to the foreign court a claim in the same matter and between the same parties was pending before a court or tribunal in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws because Israel is not the most appropriate forum to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact that can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. Additionally, there is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, in original actions instituted in Israel. Under current Israeli law, we may not be able to enforce covenants not to compete and therefore may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of our former employees. We currently have non-competition clauses in the employment agreements of nearly all of our employees. The provisions of such clauses prohibit our employees, if they cease working for us, from directly competing with us or working for our competitors. Recently, Israeli courts have required employers, seeking to enforce non-compete undertakings against former employees, to demonstrate that the competitive activities of the former employee will cause harm to one of a limited number of material interests of the employer recognized by the courts (for example, the confidentiality of certain commercial information or a company’s trade secrets). In the event that any of our employees chooses to work for one of our competitors and we could not demonstrate to the court that we would be harmed, we may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of our former employees obtained from us. Our operations may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, including by the appreciation of Israeli currency against the U.S. Dollar. We price our products primarily in dollars. If the Euro, Japanese Yen, New Taiwanese (NT) Dollar or other currencies in regions in which we sell our products weaken relative to the dollar, our products may be relatively more expensive in these regions, which could result in a decrease in our sales. Also, in the event that any of our customers require that our products be quoted and sold in currencies other than the dollar, we may receive income in such other currencies and as a result, our results will be impacted by fluctuations in the currencies relative to the dollar. 28 In addition, certain of our expenses are in, or are linked to, currencies other than the dollar, principally the New Israeli Shekel (NIS), Euro, NT Dollar and Japanese Yen. This exposes us to potentially increased operational costs as well as increased costs for certain of our products as a result of currency fluctuations. A substantial portion of the cost of our Israeli operations, mainly personnel and facility-related, is incurred in NIS. We bear the risk that the NIS, after adjustment for inflation in Israel, will appreciate in relation to the dollar. In that event, the dollar cost of our operations in Israel will increase and our dollar -measured results of operations will be adversely affected. In 2001 and 2002, the inflation adjusted NIS devalued against the dollar, which lowered the dollar cost of our Israeli operations. In 2003, the inflation adjusted NIS appreciated against the dollar, which raised the dollar cost of our Israeli operations. In 2004, however, the inflation adjusted NIS did not appreciate against the dollar significantly. In 2005, the NIS was devalued against the dollar which reduced the dollar cost of our Israeli operations. We cannot predict whether in the future the NIS will appreciate against the dollar or vice versa. We cannot assure you that we will not be adversely affected if the NIS appreciates against the dollar in the future. Terrorist attacks and government responses thereto and wars may have an adverse effect on all aspects of our business. The terrorist attacks in the United States, U.S. military responses to these attacks, the ongoing hostilities in Iraq and threats of war and acts of terrorism in Europe and elsewhere and the related decline in consumer confidence and continued economic weakness have had a negative impact on consumer retail demand and our business. Any escalation in these events or similar future events may disrupt our worldwide operations or those of our customers and suppliers and may adversely affect the availability of materials needed to manufacture our products or the means to transport those materials to manufacturing facilities and finished products to customers. In addition, these events have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on the United States and world economy in general and consumer confidence and spending in particular, which could harm our sales. Our U.S. investors could suffer significant adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company. We would be a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if (i) 75% or more of our gross income in a taxable year including our pro rata share of the gross income of any company treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, U.S. or foreign, in which we are considered to own, directly or indirectly, 25% or more of the shares by value, is passive income, or (ii) at least 50% of our assets in a taxable year, averaged quarterly over the year and ordinarily determined based on fair market value and including our pro rata share of the assets of any company treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, U.S. or foreign, in which we are considered to own, directly or indirectly, 25% or more of the shares by value, produce, or are held for the production of passive income. Passive income includes, among other items, interest, dividends, royalties, rents and annuities, and amounts derived by the investment of funds raised in this and other offerings. If we are or become a PFIC, or if the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, subsequently successfully asserts that we are, were or became a PFIC at some point, many of our shareholders will be subject to potentially substantial adverse tax consequences, including: • taxation at the highest ordinary income tax rates in effect during the holding period on some distributions on our ordinary shares, and on gain from the sale or other disposition of our ordinary shares; • paying interest on taxes allocable to prior periods; and • no increase in the tax basis of our ordinary shares to fair market value at the date of the holder’s death. We believe that we were not a PFIC for 2005 and do not anticipate becoming a PFIC in the future. Our belief is based, in part, on our audited financial statements, our spending plans for the proceeds of future offerings, our market capitalization and our current expectations of the value and nature of our assets, the sources and nature of our income and relevant market data. However, the tests for determining PFIC status are applied annually and it is difficult to make an accurate prediction of future income and assets that are relevant to this determination. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will not be treated as a PFIC in future years. 29 Certain provisions of Israeli law and our Articles of Association may delay, prevent or make difficult a merger with or an acquisition of us, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make undesirable a merger or an acquisition of all or a significant portion of our shares or assets. Israeli corporate law regulates acquisitions of shares through tender offers and mergers, requires special approvals for transactions involving significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. These provisions of Israeli law could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions may limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for our ordinary shares. In addition, our articles of association contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if that change would be beneficial to our shareholders. Specifically, our articles of association provide that any merger or significant acquisition involving us requires the approval of 75% of the voting power of our shareholders present at a meeting, in person or by proxy, and voting on the transaction. This provision of our articles of association can only be amended by the same supermajority shareholder vote required for approval of a merger or acquisition transaction. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions undesirable to us or to some of our shareholders. 