Item 1A. Risk Factors Described below are various risks and uncertainties that may affect our business. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties, both known and unknown, including ones that we currently deem immaterial or that are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, may also affect our business. If any of the risks described below actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our operating results and margins may fluctuate significantly. We have experienced significant fluctuation in our revenue, earnings and margins over the past few years, and we may experience significant fluctuations in our revenue, earnings and margins in the future. Historically, the prices of our LEDs have declined based on market trends. We attempt to maintain our margins by constantly developing improved or new products, which provide greater value and result in higher prices, or by lowering the cost of our LEDs. If we are unable to do so, our margins will decline. Our operating results and margins may vary significantly in the future due to many factors, including the following: • average sales prices for our products declining at a greater rate than anticipated; • fluctuations in foreign currency as more of our revenue may be in non-U.S. currencies; • our ability to develop, manufacture and deliver products in a timely and cost-effective manner; • variations in the amount of usable product produced during manufacturing (our “yield”); • our ability to improve yields and reduce costs in order to allow lower product pricing without margin reductions; • our increased reliance on and our ability to ramp up capacity at our factories and our subcontractors; • our ability to ramp up production of our new products; • our ability to convert our substrates used in our volume manufacturing to larger diameters; 10 Table of Contents • our ability to produce higher brightness and more efficient LED products that satisfy customer design requirements; • our ability to continue improving our current products and develop new products to specifications that meet the evolving needs of our customers; • changes in demand for our products and our customers’ products that may cause fluctuations in revenue and possible inventory obsolescence; • raw material price fluctuations, including certain commodities consumed in our production process; • effects of an economic slow down on both consumer and non-consumer spending on products that incorporate our products; • changes in the competitive landscape, such as inventions of new technology, availability of higher brightness LED products, higher volume production and lower pricing from competitors; • changes in the mix of products we sell, which may vary significantly; • product returns or exchanges due to quality-related matters or improper use of our products; • changes in purchase commitments permitted under our contracts with large customers; • changes in production capacity and variations in the utilization of that capacity; • disruptions of manufacturing that could result from fire, flood, drought or other disasters, particularly in the case of our single site for SiC wafer and LED production or disruptions from some of our sole source vendors; • changes in legislation, regulations, or tax or accounting rules or changes in their interpretation; and • changes in the amount of litigation costs we incur to protect our intellectual property rights. These or other factors could adversely affect our future operating results and margins. If our future operating results or margins are below the expectations of stock market analysts or our investors, our stock price will likely decline. If we fail to evaluate, implement and integrate strategic opportunities successfully, our business may suffer. From time to time we evaluate strategic opportunities available to us for product, technology or business acquisitions. For example, in July 2006 we acquired INTRINSIC, in March 2007 we acquired COTCO, and in February 2008 we acquired LLF. If we choose to make acquisitions, we face certain risks, such as failure of the acquired business to meet our performance expectations, diversion of management attention, retention of existing customers of our current and acquired business, and difficulty in integrating the acquired business’s operations, personnel and financial and operating systems into our current business. We may not be able to successfully address these risks or any other problems that arise from our recent or future acquisitions. Any failure to successfully evaluate strategic opportunities and address risks or other problems that arise related to any acquisition could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to effectively expand the distribution channels for our component products, our operating results may suffer. We have expanded into new business channels that are different from those that we have historically operated in as we grow our business and sell more LED components versus LED chips. If we are unable to penetrate these new distribution channels to ensure our products are reaching the appropriate customer base, our financial results may be impacted. In addition, if we successfully penetrate these new distribution channels, we cannot guarantee that customers will accept our components or that we will be able to manufacture and deliver them in the timeline established by our customers. 11 Table of Contents Our LED revenues are highly dependent on our customers’ ability to produce and sell more integrated products using our LED products. Because our customers integrate our LED products into the products that they market and sell, our LED revenues depend on getting our LED products designed into a larger number of our customers’ products and our customers’ ability to sell those products. For example, some of our current customers, as well as prospective customers, create white LED components using our blue LEDs, in combination with phosphors. Sales of blue LED chips are highly dependent upon our customers’ ability to procure efficient phosphors, develop high quality and highly efficient white LED components and gain access to the necessary intellectual property rights. Even if our customers are able to develop competitive white LED components using our blue LED chips, there can be no assurance that our customers will be successful in the marketplace. We also have current and prospective customers that create lighting systems using our LED components. Sales of LED components for these applications are highly dependent upon our customers’ ability to develop high quality and highly efficient lighting products, including thermal design, optical design and power conversion. The lighting industry has traditionally not had this level of technical expertise for LED related designs, which may limit the success of our customers’ products. Even if our customers are able to develop efficient systems, there can be no assurance that our customers will be successful in the marketplace. As a result of our entry into and continued expansion in new markets, such as packaged LEDs and LED lighting fixtures, our traditional customers may reduce orders. Through acquisitions and organic growth, we have moved into and continue to expand in new markets, such as packaged LEDs and LED lighting fixtures, where some of our current customers may now perceive us as a competitor. In response, our customers may reduce their orders for our products. This reduction in orders could occur faster than our sales growth in these new markets, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operating results are substantially dependent on the development and acceptance of new products based on our technology. Our future success may depend on our ability to develop new and lower cost solutions for existing and new markets and for customers to accept those solutions. We must introduce new products in a timely and cost-effective manner, and we must secure production orders for those products from our customers. The development of new products is a highly complex process, and we historically have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products. The successful development and introduction of these products depends on a number of factors, including the following: • achievement of technology breakthroughs required to make commercially viable devices; • the accuracy of our predictions of market requirements and evolving standards; • acceptance of our new product designs; • acceptance of new technology in certain markets; • the availability of qualified research and development personnel; • our timely completion of product designs and development; • our ability to expand sales and influence key customers to adopt our products; • our ability to develop repeatable processes to manufacture new products in sufficient quantities and at low enough costs for commercial sales; • our customers’ ability to develop competitive products incorporating our products; and • acceptance of our customers’ products by the market. If any of these or other factors become problematic, we may not be able to develop and introduce these new products in a timely or cost-effective manner. 12 Table of Contents We face significant challenges managing our growth. We have experienced a period of significant growth over the past few years that may challenge our management and other resources. We are also in the process of transforming our business to support a global components customer base. In order to manage our growth and change in our strategy effectively, we must continue to: • expand global sales, marketing and distribution; • implement and improve operating and information technology systems; • maintain adequate manufacturing facilities and equipment to meet customer demand; • maintain a sufficient supply of raw materials to support our growth; • expand the skills and capabilities of our current management team; • add experienced senior level managers; • attract and retain qualified people with experience in engineering, design, sales and marketing; and • recruit and retain qualified manufacturing employees. We expect to spend substantial amounts of money in supporting our growth and may have additional unexpected costs. We may not be able to expand quickly enough to exploit potential market opportunities. Our future operating results will also depend on expanding sales and marketing, research and development and administrative functions to support a global components customer base. If we cannot attract qualified people or manage growth and change effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Litigation could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We are defendants in pending litigation as described in Note 12, “Commitments and Contingencies,” in our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report that alleges, among other things, patent infringement. Defending against existing and potential litigation will likely require significant attention and resources and, regardless of the outcome, result in significant legal expenses, which will adversely affect our results unless covered by insurance or recovered from third parties. If our defenses are ultimately unsuccessful, or if we are unable to achieve a favorable resolution, we could be liable for damage awards that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our business may be impaired by claims that we, or our customers, infringe intellectual property rights of others. Vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights characterize the semiconductor industry. These traits have resulted in significant and often protracted and expensive litigation. Litigation to determine the validity of patents or claims by third parties of infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights could result in significant expense and divert the efforts of our technical personnel and management, even if the litigation results in a determination favorable to us. In the event of an adverse result in such litigation, we could be required to: • pay substantial damages; • indemnify our customers; • stop the manufacture, use and sale of products found to be infringing; • incur asset impairment charges; • discontinue the use of processes found to be infringing; • expend significant resources to develop non-infringing products and processes; and/or • obtain a license to use third party technology. 13 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that third parties will not attempt to assert infringement claims against us, or our customers, with respect to our products. In addition, our customers may face infringement claims directed to the customer’s products that incorporate our products, and an adverse result could impair the customer’s demand for our products. We have also promised certain of our customers that we will indemnify them in the event they are sued by our competitors for infringement claims directed to the products we supply. Under this indemnification obligation we may be responsible for future payments to resolve infringement claims against them. From time to time we receive correspondence asserting that our products or processes are or may be infringing patents or other intellectual property rights of others. Our practice is to investigate such claims to determine whether the assertions have merit and, if so, we take appropriate steps to seek to obtain a license or to avoid the infringement. However, we cannot predict whether a license will be available or that we would find the terms of any license offered acceptable or commercially reasonable. Failure to obtain a necessary license could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and costs and to suspend the manufacture of products. There are limitations on our ability to protect our intellectual property. Our intellectual property position is based in part on patents owned by us and patents exclusively licensed to us by North Carolina State University, Boston University and others. The licensed patents include patents relating to the SiC crystal growth process that is central to our SiC materials and device business. We intend to continue to file patent applications in the future, where appropriate, and to pursue such applications with U.S. and foreign patent authorities. However, our existing patents are subject to expiration and we cannot be sure that additional patents will be issued on any new applications around the covered technology or that our existing or future patents will not be successfully contested by third parties. Also, since issuance of a valid patent does not prevent other companies from using alternative, non-infringing technology, we cannot be sure that any of our patents, or patents issued to others and licensed to us, will provide significant commercial protection, especially as new competitors enter the market. In addition to patent protection, we also rely on trade secrets and other non-patented proprietary information relating to our product development and manufacturing activities. We try to protect this information through appropriate efforts to maintain its secrecy, including requiring employees and third parties to sign confidentiality agreements. We cannot be sure that these efforts will be successful or that the confidentiality agreements will not be breached. We also cannot be sure that we would have adequate remedies for any breach of such agreements or other misappropriation of our trade secrets, or that our trade secrets and proprietary know-how will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by others. Where necessary, we may initiate litigation to enforce our patent or other intellectual property rights. Any such litigation may require us to spend a substantial amount of time and money and could distract management from our day-to-day operations. Moreover, there is no assurance that we will be successful in any such litigation. Our operations in foreign countries, including China and other Asian countries, expose us to certain risks inherent in doing business internationally, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. As a result of acquisitions and organic growth, we have operations, manufacturing facilities and subcontract arrangements in foreign countries, which expose us to certain risks, including the following: • foreign exchange fluctuations, as we conduct operations and have sales denominated in non-U.S. currencies; • protection of intellectual property and trade secrets; • tariffs and other barriers; • timing and availability of export licenses; 14 Table of Contents • rising labor costs; • disruptions in the infrastructure of the foreign countries where we operate; • difficulties in accounts receivable collections; • difficulties in staffing and managing distant international operations; • the burden of complying with foreign and international laws and treaties; and • the burden of complying with and changes in international taxation policies. In some instances, we have been provided and may continue to receive incentives from foreign governments to encourage our investment in certain countries, regions, or areas. In particular, we have received and may continue to receive such incentives in connection with our operations in China, as the Chinese national and local governments seek to encourage the development of the technology industry in China. Government incentives may include tax rebates, reduced tax rates, favorable lending policies and other measures, some or all of which may be available to us due to our foreign operations. Any of these incentives could be reduced or eliminated by governmental authorities at any time. Any reduction or elimination of incentives currently provided to our operations could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are subject to risks related to international sales. We expect that revenue from international sales will continue to represent the majority of our total revenue. International sales are subject to a variety of risks, including risks arising from currency fluctuations, tariffs, trade barriers, collection issues and taxes. Our international sales are subject to variability as prices become less competitive in countries with currencies that are low or are declining in value against the U.S. Dollar and more competitive in countries with currencies that are high or increasing in value against the U.S. Dollar. In addition, international sales are subject to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including, without limitation, regulations relating to import-export control, technology transfer restrictions, the International Traffic in Arms Regulation promulgated under the Arms Export Control Act, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the anti-boycott provisions of the U.S. Export Administration Act. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be liable for administrative, civil or criminal liabilities, and in the extreme case, we could be suspended or debarred from government contracts or our export privileges could be suspended, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our results of operations, financial condition and business would be harmed if we were unable to balance customer demand and capacity. As customer demand for our products, particularly new products, changes, we must be able to ramp up or adjust our production capacity to meet demand. We are continually taking steps to address our manufacturing capacity needs for our products. If we are not able to increase our capacity or if we increase our capacity too quickly, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted. If we experience delays or unforeseen costs associated with adjusting our capacity levels, we may not be able to achieve our financial targets. Variations in our production yields impact our ability to reduce costs and could cause our margins to decline and our operating results to suffer. All of our products are manufactured using technologies that are highly complex. The number of usable items, or yield, from our production processes may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including but not limited to the following: • variability in our process repeatability and control; • contamination of the manufacturing environment; 15 Table of Contents • equipment failure, power outages or variations in the manufacturing process; • lack of consistency and adequate quality and quantity of piece parts and other raw materials; • losses from broken wafers or human errors; • defects in packaging either within our control or at our subcontractors; and • any transitions or changes in our production process, planned or unplanned. If our yields decrease, our costs could increase, our margins could decline and our operating results would be adversely affected. In the past, we have experienced difficulties in achieving acceptable yields on new products, which has adversely affected our operating results. We may experience similar problems in the future, and we cannot predict when they may occur or their severity. In some instances, we may offer products for future delivery at prices based on planned yield improvements. Reduced yields or failure to achieve planned yield improvements could continue to significantly affect our margins and operating results. We rely on a few key sole source and limited source suppliers. We depend on a small number of sole source and limited source suppliers for certain raw materials, components, services and equipment used in manufacturing our products, including key materials and equipment used in critical stages of our manufacturing processes. Although alternative sources generally exist for these items, qualification of many of these alternative sources could take up to six months or longer. Where possible, we are attempting to identify alternative sources for our sole and limited source suppliers. We generally purchase these sole or limited source items with purchase orders, and we have limited guaranteed supply arrangements with such suppliers. We do not control the time and resources that these suppliers devote to our business, and we cannot be sure that these suppliers will perform their obligations to us. In the past, we have experienced decreases in our production yields when suppliers have varied from previously agreed upon specifications that have impacted our cost of sales. Any delay in product delivery or other interruption or variation in supply from these suppliers could prevent us from meeting commercial demand for our products. If we were to lose key suppliers, our key suppliers were unable to support our demand or we were unable to identify and qualify alternative suppliers, our manufacturing operations could be interrupted or hampered significantly. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and have evolving technology standards. The markets for our products are highly competitive. In the LED market, we compete with companies that manufacture or sell nitride-based LED chips as well as those that sell packaged LEDs. Competitors are offering new blue, green and white LEDs with aggressive prices and improved performance. These competitors may reduce average sales prices faster than our cost reduction, and competitive pricing pressures may accelerate the rate of decline of our average sales prices. The market for SiC wafers is also becoming competitive as other firms in recent years have begun offering SiC wafer products or announced plans to do so. Competition is increasing. In order to achieve our revenue growth objectives in fiscal 2009 and beyond, we need to continue to develop new products that enable our customers to win new designs and increase market share in key areas such as mobile products and general lighting class applications. One major supplier dominates the market in which products incorporating our LED chip products compete and we anticipate that the increased competition for these designs will result in pressure to lower sales prices of our products. Therefore, our ability to provide higher performance LEDs at lower costs will be critical to our success. Competitors may also try to align with some of our strategic customers. This could mean lower prices for our products, reduced demand for our products and a corresponding reduction in our ability to recover development, engineering and manufacturing costs. Competitors also could invent new technologies that may make our products obsolete. Any of these developments could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 16 Table of Contents If government agencies discontinue or curtail their funding for our research and development programs, our business may suffer. Changes in federal budget priorities could adversely affect our contract revenue. Historically, government agencies have funded a significant portion of our research and development activities. When the government changes budget priorities, such as in times of war, our funding has the risk of being redirected to other programs. Government contracts are also subject to the risk that the government agency may not appropriate and allocate all funding contemplated by the contract. In addition, our government contracts generally permit the contracting authority to terminate the contracts for the convenience of the government. The full value of the contracts would not be realized if they were prematurely terminated. Furthermore, we may be unable to incur sufficient allowable costs to generate the full estimated contract values and there is some risk that any technologies developed under these contracts may not have commercial value. If government funding is discontinued or reduced, our ability to develop or enhance products could be limited, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations worldwide could harm our business and results of operations. The manufacturing and assembling and testing of our products require the use of hazardous materials that are subject to a broad array of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. Our failure to comply with any of these applicable laws or regulations could result in: • regulatory penalties, fines and legal liabilities; • suspension of production; • alteration of our fabrication and assembly and test processes; and • curtailment of our operations or sales. In addition, our failure to manage the use, transportation, emission, discharge, storage, recycling or disposal of hazardous materials could subject us to increased costs or future liabilities. Existing and future environmental laws and regulations could also require us to acquire pollution abatement or remediation equipment, modify our product designs or incur other expenses associated with such laws and regulations. Many new materials that we are evaluating for use in our operations may be subject to regulation under existing or future environmental laws and regulations that may restrict our use of one or more of such materials in our manufacturing, assembly and test processes or products. Any of these restrictions could harm our business and results of operations by increasing our expenses or requiring us to alter our manufacturing and assembly and test processes. If our products fail to perform or meet customer requirements, we could incur significant additional costs. The manufacture of our products involves highly complex processes. Our customers specify quality, performance and reliability standards that we must meet. If our products do not meet these standards, we may be required to replace or rework the products. In some cases, our products may contain undetected defects or flaws that only become evident after shipment. We have experienced product quality, performance or reliability problems from time to time. Defects or failures may occur in the future. If failures or defects occur, we could: • lose revenue; • incur increased costs, such as warranty expense and costs associated with customer support; • experience delays, cancellations or rescheduling of orders for our products; • write down existing inventory; or • experience product returns. 17 Table of Contents Changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our future effective tax rates may be adversely affected by a number of factors including: • changes in tax laws or interpretation of such tax laws and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; • the jurisdiction in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; • the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various authorities; • changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; • adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; • increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; • changes in available tax credits; • changes in share-based compensation expense; and • the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes. Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact net income for future periods. In addition, the determination of our income tax provision requires significant judgment. To the extent our income tax liability materially differs from our income tax provisions and accruals due to factors, including the above, that were not anticipated at the time we estimated our tax provision, our net income or cash flows could be adversely affected. In order to compete, we must attract, retain and motivate key employees, and our failure to do so could harm our results of operations. In order to compete, we must attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, sales, marketing and support positions. We generally do not have long-term employment agreements or other arrangements with our employees that would deter them from leaving. Hiring and retaining qualified executives, scientists, engineers, technical staff and sales personnel are critical to our business, and competition for experienced employees in our industry can be intense. To help attract, retain and motivate key employees, we use share-based incentive awards such as employee stock options and restricted stock. If the value of such stock awards does not appreciate as measured by the performance of the price of our common stock or if our share-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, our ability to attract, retain and motivate employees could be weakened, which could harm our business and results of operations. We are exposed to fluctuations in the market value of our investment portfolio and in interest rates, and therefore, impairment of our investments or lower investment income could harm our earnings. We are exposed to market value and interest rate risk related to our investment portfolio. We have historically invested portions of our available cash in fixed interest rate securities such as high-grade corporate debt, commercial paper, government securities and other fixed interest rate investments. The primary objective of our investments is to preserve principal while maximizing yields. Although we only acquire investments rated “A” grade or better in accordance with our cash management policy, declines in the underlying interest rates will have a negative impact on the income generated from our investments, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. 18 Table of Contents Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may affect our operating results as costs of operating certain of our foreign subsidiaries are incurred in other currencies. We conduct business in countries outside the United States, which exposes us to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. In addition, our financial statements are presented in U.S. Dollars, which requires that results of these foreign operations be translated at average exchange rates into U.S. Dollars for financial reporting purposes. As a result, fluctuations in exchange rates may affect our expenses and results of operations as well as the value of our assets and liabilities. We have not entered into any foreign currency derivative financial instruments; however, we may choose to do so in the future in an effort to manage or hedge our foreign exchange rate risk. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired. We are required under generally accepted accounting principles to review our amortizable intangible assets and investments in equity interests for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization and slower growth rates in our industry. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our consolidated financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined to exist. This could adversely impact our results of operations. Our business may be adversely affected by our, or our customers’, ability to access the capital markets. Although we believe we have adequate liquidity and capital resources to fund our operations internally, in light of current market conditions, our inability or the inability of our customers to access the capital markets, on favorable terms or at all, may adversely affect our financial performance. The inability to obtain adequate financing from debt or capital sources could force us to self-fund strategic initiatives or even forgo certain opportunities, potentially harming our performance. Additionally, the inability of our customers to access capital efficiently could cause disruptions in their businesses, thereby negatively impacting ours. Catastrophic events or geo-political conditions may disrupt our business. A disruption or failure of our systems or operations in the event of a major earthquake, weather event, cyber-attack, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales or performing other mission-critical functions. A catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption to our supply chain or any of our critical business or information technology systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our operating results could be adversely affected. Abrupt political change, terrorist activity and armed conflict pose a risk of general economic disruption in affected countries, which could result in an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies. The methods, estimates and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in Item 7 of this Annual Report). Such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 