ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this annual report before making an investment decision with respect to our common stock. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. If any of the following risks actually occur, we may not be able to conduct our business as currently planned and our financial condition and operating results could be seriously harmed. See ITEM 1. BUSINESS - "Forward-Looking Statements" of this report. The recent financial crisis and current economic conditions may adversely affect consumer spending and may significantly harm our business. The success of our business depends to a significant extent upon the level of consumer spending. A number of factors may affect the level of consumer spending on merchandise that we offer, including, among other things: general economic, industry and weather conditions; energy costs, which affect gasoline and home heating prices; the level of consumer debt; consumer credit availability; real estate values and foreclosure rates; interest rates; 7 tax rates and policies; unemployment trends; war, terrorism, other hostilities and security concerns; and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. The merchandise we sell generally consists of discretionary items. Continued adverse economic conditions and any related decrease in consumer confidence and spending may result in reduced consumer demand for discretionary items. Any decrease in consumer demand could reduce traffic in our stores, limit the prices we can charge for our products and force us to take inventory markdowns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Reduced demand may also require increased selling and promotional expenses. Reduced demand and increased competition could increase the need to close underperforming stores, which could result in higher than anticipated closing costs. We face significant competition in our markets and we may be unable to compete favorably. The retail footwear industry is highly competitive. We compete primarily with department stores, shoe stores, sporting goods stores and mass merchandisers. Many of our competitors are significantly larger and have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. Economic pressures on or bankruptcies of our competition could result in increased pricing pressures. This competition could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition in the future. Our failure to identify fashion trends could result in lower sales, higher markdowns and lower gross profits. Our success depends upon our ability to anticipate and react to the fashion tastes of our customers and provide merchandise that satisfies customer demand. Our failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately to changes in consumer fashion preferences may result in lower sales, higher markdowns to reduce excess inventories and lower gross profits. Conversely, if we fail to anticipate or react to consumer demand for our products, we may experience inventory shortages, which would result in lost sales and could negatively impact our customer goodwill, our brand image and our profitability. Moreover, our business relies on continuous changes in fashion preferences. Stagnating consumer preferences could also result in lower sales and would require us to take higher markdowns to reduce excess inventories. A failure to increase sales at our existing stores may adversely affect our stock price and impact our results of operations. A number of factors have historically affected, and will continue to affect, our comparable store sales results, including: competition; timing of holidays including sales tax holidays; general regional and national economic conditions; inclement weather; consumer trends, such as less disposable income due to the impact of higher gasoline prices; fashion trends; changes in our merchandise mix; our ability to distribute merchandise efficiently to our stores; timing and type of, and customer response to, sales events, promotional activities or other advertising; the effectiveness of our inventory management; 8 new merchandise introductions; and our ability to execute our business strategy effectively. Our comparable store sales results have fluctuated in the past, and we believe such fluctuations may continue. The unpredictability of our comparable store sales may cause our revenue and results of operations to vary from quarter to quarter, and an unanticipated decline in revenues or operating income may cause our stock price to fluctuate significantly. We depend on our key suppliers for merchandise and advertising support and the loss of key suppliers could adversely affect our business. Our business depends upon our ability to purchase fashionable, name brand and other merchandise at competitive prices from our suppliers. In fiscal 2008, two branded suppliers, Nike USA, Inc. and Skechers USA, Inc., collectively accounted for over 31% of our net sales. Name brand suppliers also provide us with cooperative advertising and visual merchandising funds. A loss of any of our key suppliers in certain product categories or our inability to obtain name brand or other merchandise from suppliers at competitive prices could have a material adverse effect on our business. As is common in the industry, we do not have any long-term contracts with our suppliers. An increase in the cost or a disruption in the flow of our imported goods may decrease our sales and profits. We rely on imported goods to sell in our stores. Substantially all of the footwear product we sell is manufactured overseas, including the merchandise we import directly from overseas manufacturers and agents and the merchandise we purchase from domestic vendors. The primary footwear manufacturers are located in China, Brazil, Spain and East Asia. A disruption in the flow of imported merchandise or an increase in the cost of those goods may decrease our sales and profits. In addition, we do not control our vendors or their labor and business practices. The violation of labor or other laws by one of our vendors could have an adverse affect on our business. If imported merchandise becomes more expensive or unavailable, the transition to alternative sources may not occur in time to meet our demands. Products from alternative sources may be of lesser quality and more expensive than those we currently import. Other risks associated with our use of imported goods include: disruptions in the flow of imported goods because of factors such as electricity or raw material shortages, work stoppages, strikes and political unrest; problems with oceanic shipping, including shipping container shortages; economic crises and international disputes; currency exchange rate fluctuations; increases in the cost of purchasing or shipping foreign merchandise resulting from the failure to maintain normal trade relations with source countries; import duties, import quotas and other trade sanctions; and increases in shipping rates imposed by the trans-Pacific shipping cartel. We may not be able to successfully execute our growth strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We intend to open new stores as a part of our growth strategy. We may not be able to open all of the new stores contemplated by our growth strategy and the new stores that we open may not be as profitable as existing stores. The complexity of our operations and management responsibilities will increase as we grow. Our growth strategy requires that we continue to expand and improve our operating and financial systems and to expand, train and manage our employee base. In addition, as we open new stores, we may be unable to hire a sufficient number of qualified store personnel or successfully integrate the new stores into our business. The success of our growth strategy will depend on a number of other factors, many of which are out of our control, including, among other things: our ability to locate suitable store sites and negotiate store leases (for new stores and renewals) on favorable terms; the acceptance of the Shoe Carnival concept in new markets; the availability of financing for capital expenditures and working capital requirements; our ability to provide adequate distribution to support growth; 9 our ability to source sufficient levels of inventory to meet the needs of new stores; particularly in new markets, our ability to open a sufficient number of new stores to provide the critical mass needed for efficient advertising and effective name recognition; our ability to improve costs and timing associated with opening new stores; and the impact of new stores on sales or profitability of existing stores in the same market. Due to the risks involved, we may be unable to open new stores at the rates expected. If we fail to successfully implement our growth strategy, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We will require significant funds to implement our growth strategy and meet our other liquidity needs. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or obtain sufficient borrowings under our existing credit agreement to finance our growth strategy and meet our other liquidity needs. In fiscal 2009, capital expenditures are expected to range from $9 million to $12 million. Our actual costs may be greater than anticipated. We also require working capital to support inventory for our existing stores. Failure to generate or raise sufficient funds may require us to modify, delay or abandon some of our future growth or expenditure plans. In addition, our results could be adversely affected if interest rates materially increase from present levels. We would be adversely affected if our distribution or information technology operations were disrupted. We currently operate a single, 410,000 square foot distribution center in Evansville, Indiana. Virtually all merchandise received by our stores, with the exception of a small amount of goods shipped directly to the stores, is and will be shipped through our distribution center. Our corporate computer network is essential to our distribution process. If our distribution center is shut down for any reason, such as a natural disaster, power outage or terrorist attack, or if our information technology systems do not operate effectively, or if we are the target of attacks or breaches, we could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing our products to our stores. Our insurance only covers costs relating to specified, limited matters such as a shutdown due to fire and windstorms, but does not cover other events such as acts of war or terrorist attacks. Even in the event of a shutdown due to covered matters, we cannot assure you that our insurance will be sufficient, or that the insurance proceeds will be paid to us in a timely fashion. Shutdowns or information technology disruptions could have an adverse effect on our operating and financial performance. In addition, our stores process debit and credit card transactions. We believe we have established appropriate controls to protect our customers' personal confidential information gathered when a debit or credit card is utilized. However, in the event that such confidential information is misused or obtained by an unauthorized third party, we could be subject to negative publicity that could harm our business, as well as have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions or results of operations. Our failure to retain our existing senior management team and to continue to attract qualified personnel could adversely affect our business. Our success depends to a large extent on the continued service of our executive management team. Departures by executive officers could have a negative impact on our business, as we may not be able to find suitable management personnel to replace departing executives on a timely basis. Furthermore, our strategy requires us to continue to train, motivate and manage our employees and to attract, motivate and retain additional qualified managerial and merchandising personnel. Competition for these types of personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining the personnel required to grow and operate our business profitably. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have a material adverse effect on our stock price. We must continue to document, test and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires annual reports by management regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm attesting to the effectiveness of our internal controls. We have expended, and expect that we will continue to expend, significant management time and resources documenting and testing our internal control over financial reporting. If we conclude in future periods that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, it could result in lost investor confidence in the accuracy, reliability and completeness of our financial reports. Any such events could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. 10 Our quarterly operating results will fluctuate due to seasonality and other factors. Our quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future. Our quarterly results of operations are affected by a variety of factors, including: fashion trends; calendar shifts of holiday or seasonal periods; the effectiveness of our inventory management; weather conditions; timing of opening of new stores; changes in general economic conditions and consumer spending patterns; and actions of competitors or co-tenants. We have three distinct peak selling periods: Easter, back-to-school and Christmas. To prepare for our peak shopping seasons, we must order and keep in stock significantly more merchandise than we would carry during other parts of the year. Any unanticipated decrease in demand for our products during these peak shopping seasons could require us to sell excess inventory at a substantial markdown, which could reduce our net sales and gross margins and negatively impact our profitability. Our operating results depend significantly upon the sales generated during these periods. If our future quarterly results fail to meet the expectations of research analysts, then the market price of our common stock could decline substantially. Our stock price may be volatile and could decline substantially. The stock market has, from time to time, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Many factors may cause the market price for our common stock to decline, including: operating results failing to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in any quarter; downward revisions in securities analysts’ estimates; material announcements by us or our competitors; and the other risk factors cited in this annual report. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the subject of securities class action litigation. If we become involved in a securities class action litigation in the future, it could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and resources, thus harming our business. We are controlled by our principal shareholder. J. Wayne Weaver, our Chairman of the Board of Directors and principal shareholder, his spouse and an adult child together own approximately 28.4% of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, Mr. Weaver is able to exert substantial influence over our management and operations. In addition, his interests may differ from or be opposed to the interests of our other shareholders, and his control may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control that may be favored by other shareholders. Provisions of our organizational documents and Indiana law might deter acquisition bids for us. Our Restated Articles of Incorporation and Indiana corporate laws contain provisions that may discourage other persons from attempting to acquire control of us, including, without limitation, a Board of Directors that has staggered terms for its members, supermajority voting provisions, restrictions on the ability of shareholders to call a special meeting of shareholders and procedural requirements in connection with shareholder proposals or director nominations. The Board of Directors has the authority to issue preferred stock in one or more series without the approval of the holders of our common stock. Further, Indiana corporate law contains business combination provisions that, in general, prohibit for five years any business combination with a beneficial owner of more than 10% or more of our common stock unless the holder’s acquisition of the stock was approved in advance by our Board of Directors. Indiana corporate law also contains control share acquisition provisions that limit the ability of certain shareholders to vote their shares unless their control share acquisition is approved. In certain circumstances, the fact that corporate devices are in place that inhibit or discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock. 11 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 