RISK FACTORS of this report. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Shoe Carnival, Inc. is one of the nation’s largest family footwear retailers, providing the convenience of shopping at any of our more than 350 store locations or online. We offer customers a broad assortment of moderately priced dress, casual and athletic footwear for men, women and children with emphasis on national and regional name brands. We differentiate our retail concept from our competitors’ by our distinctive, highly promotional marketing efforts. On average, our stores are 10,900 square feet, generate approximately $2.5 million in annual sales and carry inventory of approximately 28,200 pairs of shoes per location. As of February 2, 2013, we operated 351 stores in 32 states and Puerto Rico and offered online shopping at www.shoecarnival.com. We are an Indiana corporation that was initially formed in Delaware in 1993 and reincorporated in Indiana in 1996. References to “we,” “us,” “our” and the “Company” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refer to Shoe Carnival, Inc. and its subsidiaries. Key Competitive Strengths We believe our financial success is due to a number of key competitive strengths that have allowed us to make Shoe Carnival a destination of choice for today’s retail consumer. 2 Distinctive shopping experience Our stores combine competitive pricing with a highly promotional, in-store marketing effort that encourages customer participation and creates a fun and exciting shopping experience. We promote a high-energy retail environment by decorating with exciting graphics and bold colors, and by featuring a stage and barker as the focal point in each store. With a microphone, this barker, or “mic-person”, announces current specials, organizes contests and games, and assists and educates customers with the features and location of merchandise. Our mic-person offers limited-duration promotions throughout the day, encouraging customers to take immediate advantage of our value pricing. We believe this highly promotional atmosphere results in various competitive advantages, including increased multiple unit sales; the building of a loyal, repeat customer base; the creation of word-of-mouth advertising; and enhanced sell-through of in-season goods. The same excitement and spontaneity is reflected in our e-commerce site through special promotions and limited time sales, along with relevant fashion stories featured on our home page. Broad merchandise assortment Our objective is to be the destination retailer-of-choice for a wide range of consumers seeking value priced, current season name brand and private label footwear. Our product assortment includes dress and casual shoes, sandals, boots and a wide assortment of athletic shoes for the entire family. Our average store carries approximately 28,200 pairs of shoes in four general categories – men’s, women’s, children’s and athletics. In addition to footwear, our stores carry selected accessory items complementary to the sale of footwear. We engage our customers by presenting creative three dimensional branded merchandise statements and signage upon entering our stores. Key brands are further emphasized by prominently displaying on end caps, focal walls, and within the aisles. These displays may highlight a product offering of a single vendor, highlight sales promotions, advertise promotional pricing to meet or beat competitors’ sale prices or may make a seasonal or lifestyle statement by highlighting similar footwear from multiple vendors. These visual merchandising techniques make it easier for customers to shop and focus attention on key name brands. Our e-commerce site offers customers an opportunity to choose from a large selection of products in all categories with a depth of sizes and colors that may not be available in some of our smaller stores, and introduces our concept to consumers that are new to Shoe Carnival, in both existing and new markets. Value pricing for our customers Our marketing effort targets moderate income, value conscious consumers seeking name brand footwear for all age groups. We believe that by offering a wide selection of popular styles of name brand merchandise at competitive prices, we generate broad customer appeal. Additionally, the time conscious customer appreciates the convenience of one stop shopping for the entire family, whether it is at any of our more than 350 store locations or online at shoecarnival.com. We also believe our highly promotional shopping environment contributes to a reputation of value pricing. Efficient store level cost structure Our cost efficient store operations and real estate strategy enable us to price products competitively. We achieve low labor costs by housing merchandise directly on the selling floor in an open stock format, allowing customers to serve themselves, if they choose. This reduces the staffing required to assist customers and reduces store level labor costs as a percentage of sales. We prefer to locate stores predominantly in open-air shopping centers in order to take advantage of lower occupancy costs and maximize our exposure to value oriented shoppers. Heavy reliance on information technology We have invested significant resources in information technology. Our proprietary inventory management and advanced point-of-sale (“POS”) systems provide corporate management, buyers and store managers with the timely information necessary to monitor and control all phases of operations. The POS provides, in addition to other features, full price management (including price look-up), promotion tracking capabilities (in support of the spontaneous nature of the in-store price promotions), real-time sales and gross margin analysis by product category at the store level and customer tracking. Using the POS, store managers are able to monitor sales and gross profit margins on a real-time basis throughout the day. Reacting to sales trends, our mic-people use POS reports to choose from among a number of product promotions supplied by our centralized merchandising staff. 3 Our centralized network connects our corporate office to our distribution center and retail stores via a wide area network, providing up-to-date sales and inventory information as required. Our data warehouse enables our merchandising staff to analyze sales, margin and inventory levels by location, by day, down to the size of shoe. Using this information, our merchandise managers meet regularly with vendors to compare their product sales, gross margins and return on inventory investment against previously stated objectives. We believe timely access to key business data has enabled us in the past to drive annual comparable store sales increases, manage our markdown activity and improve inventory turnover. Growth Strategy Our goal is to continue to grow our net sales and earnings by opening additional stores throughout the United States and Puerto Rico and growing our e-commerce business. On February 2, 2013, we operated 351 stores located across 32 states. Our stores averaged approximately 10,900 square feet, ranging in size from 6,400 to 26,500 square feet. Our current store prototype utilizes between 8,000 and 12,000 square feet, depending upon, among other factors, the location of the store and the population base we expect the store to service. Our stores are typically located in open-air shopping centers. The sales area of most stores is approximately 85% of the gross store size. Historical Store Count Fiscal Years 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Stores open at the beginning of the year 327 314 311 304 291 New store openings 31 17 10 16 24 Store closings 7 4 7 9 11 Stores open at the end of the year 351 327 314 311 304 Stores relocated 6 9 3 1 4 Percentage of store base remodeled 5% 8% 4% 1% 1% Expanding our store base both in number of stores, as well as geographic footprint Increasing market penetration by opening new stores is a key component of our growth strategy. We believe our strong unleveraged financial position provides a solid platform for additional growth. For fiscal 2013, we expect to open between 30 to 35 new stores and close five to seven stores. The majority of our new store locations will serve to fill-in certain under-penetrated markets with additional stores, thereby increasing the performance of the overall market. The balance of our new store openings will be in new smaller markets that we can fully penetrate with one or two stores. Critical to the success of opening new stores in larger markets or geographic areas is our ability to cluster stores. In larger markets (populations greater than 400,000), clustering involves opening two or more stores at approximately the same time, and in smaller markets that can only support a single store, clustering involves seeking locations in reasonably close proximity to other existing markets. This strategy creates cost efficiencies by enabling us to leverage store expenses with respect to advertising, distribution and management costs. We believe the advantages of clustering stores in existing markets will lead to cost efficiencies and overall incremental sales gains that should more than offset any adverse effect on sales of existing stores. We lease all store locations, as we believe the flexibility afforded by leasing allows us to avoid the inherent risks of owning real estate, particularly with respect to under-performing stores. Before entering a new market, we perform a market, demographic and competition analysis to evaluate the suitability of the potential market. Potential store site selection criteria include, among other factors, market demographics, traffic counts, the tenant mix of a potential open-air shopping center, visibility within the center and from major thoroughfares, overall retail activity of the area and proposed lease terms. The time required to open a store after signing a lease depends primarily upon the property owner’s ability to deliver the premises. After we accept the premises from the property owner in turnkey condition, we can generally open a store within 60 days. 4 E-commerce To enhance our e-commerce site, which launched in the fall of fiscal 2011, we added a mobile version in the third quarter of fiscal 2012. By the end of fiscal 2012, traffic from mobile devices accounted for over 30% of our overall e-commerce site traffic. We believe our e-commerce site represents an additional long-term growth vehicle for Shoe Carnival and, along with our social media efforts, provides us with an opportunity to acquire national brand exposure by introducing Shoe Carnival to new customers and markets. Merchandising and Pricing Our merchandising strategy is designed to provide a large selection of value priced footwear for the entire family. Our stores carry an average of approximately 28,200 pairs of shoes featuring a broad assortment of current-season name brand footwear, supplemented with private label merchandise. Our stores also carry complementary accessories such as handbags, shoe care items and socks. The mix of merchandise and the brands offered in a particular store reflect the demographics of each market, among other factors. Online, we offer a large selection of product in all categories with a depth of sizes and colors that may not be available in some of our smaller stores. Our pricing strategy emphasizes value. By combining current season name brand product with promotional pricing, we feel that we create a better value for customers. Initial pricing decisions are guided by gross profit margin targets, which vary by merchandise category and depend on whether the item is name brand or private label merchandise. Our buying staff centrally manages markdowns. The table below sets forth our percentage of sales by product category: Fiscal Years 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Women’s 26% 26% 26% 26% 26% Men’s 15 16 16 15 15 Children’s (1) 17 17 17 17 17 Athletics (2) 38 37 37 38 38 Accessories and miscellaneous items 4 4 4 4 4 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% (1) Children’s includes children’s athletic shoes. (2) Includes men’s and women’s sizes only. Women’s, men’s and children’s non-athletic footwear categories are further divided into dress, casual, sport, sandals and boots. We classify athletic shoes by functionality, such as running, basketball or fitness shoes. For the fiscal years presented, athletic styles, including children’s sizes, have represented approximately half of our footwear sales. Building Brand Awareness Our goal is to communicate a consistent brand image across all aspects of our operations. We utilize a blend of advertising mediums and marketing methods to communicate who we are and the values we offer. Special emphasis is made to highlight brands as well as specific styles of product, and visual graphics are used extensively in our stores to emphasize the lifestyle aspect of the styles we carry. The use of social media has become an increasingly important medium in our digital marketing efforts, allowing us to directly communicate, as well as advertise, to our core customers. For fiscal 2012, approximately 43% of our total advertising budget was directed to television, radio and digital media. Print media (including inserts, direct mail and newspaper advertising) and outdoor advertising accounted for the balance. Easter, back-to-school and the Christmas holiday season are the three key seasonal selling periods, during which we advertise the most heavily. We make a special effort to utilize the cooperative advertising dollars and collateral offered by vendors whenever possible. 5 Promotions are a key element in our marketing efforts. By utilizing both planned and impromptu contests and games, store managers create an environment that encourages customer interaction with store personnel. For example, a customer is enticed to purchase additional merchandise by winning an on-the-spot discount. Online, we create a similar shopping experience by offering special promotions and limited time sales. Our promotions will continue our emphasis on fun and excitement in order to enhance our customers’ total shopping experience. We are also continuing to focus on enrollment in our Shoe Perks® customer loyalty program. Members in our ShoePerks® program spend an average of 35% more per transaction, and this program allows us to communicate directly with those customers. We strive to make each store opening a major retail event. Major promotions during grand openings and peak selling periods feature contests and prize giveaways. We believe our grand openings help to establish the high-energy, promotional atmosphere that develops a loyal, repeat customer base and generates word-of-mouth advertising. Distribution We operate a single 410,000 square foot distribution center located in Evansville, Indiana. Our facility is leased from a third party and can support the processing and distribution needs of a minimum of 460 stores to facilitate future growth. We have the right to expand the facility by 200,000 square feet, which would provide us processing capacity to support approximately 650 stores. Our distribution center is equipped with state-of-the-art processing and product movement equipment. The facility utilizes cross docking/store replenishment and redistribution methods to fill store product requirements. These methods may include count verification, price and bar code labeling of each unit (when not performed by the manufacturer), redistribution of an order into size assortments (when not performed by the manufacturer) and allocation of shipments to individual stores. Throughout packing, allocating, storing and shipping, our distribution process is essentially paperless. Merchandise is typically shipped to each store location once per week. We utilize a third party fulfillment agent located in southwestern Ohio to provide comprehensive fulfillment services for our e-commerce site. They are supplied with merchandise from our distribution center on a weekly basis. For stores within the continental United States, a dedicated carrier, with occasional use of common carriers, handles the majority of shipments to our stores and our fulfillment agent. Our shipments to Puerto Rico are loaded for containerized overseas shipment, with final delivery by a third party provider. Our third party provider also maintains store replenishment inventory for us at their on-island facility. Buying Operations Maintaining fresh, fashionable merchandise is critical to our success. Our buyers stay in touch with evolving trends by shopping fashion-leading markets, attending national trade shows, gathering vendor input and monitoring the current styles shown in leading fashion and lifestyle magazines. Management of the purchasing function is the responsibility of our Executive Vice President - General Merchandise Manager. Management encourages store operations personnel to provide input to our merchandising staff regarding market specific fashion trends. We purchase merchandise from over 170 footwear vendors. In fiscal 2012, two suppliers, Nike USA, Inc. and Skechers USA, Inc., each accounted for 10% or more of our net sales and together accounted for over 37% of our net sales. A loss of any of our key suppliers in certain product categories could have a material adverse effect on our business. As is common in the industry, we do not have any long-term contracts with suppliers. Competition The retail footwear business is highly competitive. We believe the principal competitive factors in our industry are merchandise selection, price, fashion, quality, location, shopping environment and service. We compete with department stores, shoe stores, sporting goods stores, online retailers and mass merchandisers. Our specific competitors vary from market to market. We compete with most department stores and traditional shoe stores by offering lower prices. We compete with off-price retailers, mass merchandisers and discount stores by offering a wider and deeper selection of merchandise. 6 Many of our competitors are significantly larger and have substantially greater resources. However, we believe that our distinctive retail format, in combination with our wide merchandise selection, competitive prices and low operating costs, enables us to compete effectively. Store Operations Management of store operations is the responsibility of our Executive Vice President - Store Operations, who is assisted by divisional managers, regional managers and the individual store general managers. Generally, each store has a general manager and up to three assistant managers, depending on sales volume. Store operations personnel make certain merchandising decisions necessary to maximize sales and profits primarily through merchandise placement, signage and timely clearance of slower selling items. Administrative functions are centralized at the corporate headquarters. These functions include accounting, purchasing, store maintenance, information systems, advertising, human resources, distribution and pricing. Management oversight for e-commerce is also located at our corporate headquarters. Employees At February 2, 2013, we had approximately 5,000 employees, of which approximately 3,000 were employed on a part-time basis. The number of employees fluctuates during the year primarily due to seasonality. None of our employees are represented by a labor union. We attribute a large portion of our success in various areas of cost control to our inclusion of virtually all management level employees in incentive compensation plans. We contribute all or a portion of the cost of medical, disability and life insurance coverage for those employees who are eligible to participate in Company-sponsored plans. Additionally, we sponsor retirement plans that are open to all employees who have met the minimum age and work hour requirements. All employees are eligible to receive discounts on purchases from our stores. We consider our relationship with our employees to be satisfactory. Seasonality Our quarterly results of operations have fluctuated, and are expected to continue to fluctuate in the future, primarily as a result of seasonal variances and the timing of sales and costs associated with opening new stores. Non-capital expenditures, such as advertising and payroll, incurred prior to the opening of a new store are charged to expense as incurred. Therefore, our results of operations may be adversely affected in any quarter in which we incur pre-opening expenses related to the opening of new stores. We have three distinct peak selling periods: Easter, back-to-school and Christmas. Trademarks We own the following federally registered trademarks and service marks: Shoe Carnival® and associated trade dress and related logos, The Carnival®, Donna Lawrence®, Victoria Spenser®, Via Nova®, Innocence®, Y-NOT?®, UNR8ED®, Solanz®, 93 Octane®, Cabrizi®, Shoe Perks®, WHEN YOU WANT 2®, JUMP BACK IN®, STEP OUT OF BORING®, and Laces for Learning®. We believe these marks are valuable and, accordingly, we intend to maintain the marks and the related registrations. We are not aware of any pending claims of infringement or other challenges to our right to use these marks. Environmental Compliance with federal, state and local provisions regulating the discharge of material into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment has not had a material effect upon our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. We believe the nature of our operations have little, if any, environmental impact. We therefore anticipate no material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities for our current fiscal year or for the near future. 7 Available Information We make available free of charge through the investor relations portion of our website at www.shoecarnival.com our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. We have included our website address throughout this filing as textual references only. The information contained on our website is not incorporated into this Form 10-K. Our annual report on Form 10-K as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission is available without charge to shareholders, investment professionals and securities analysts upon written request. Requests should be directed to Investor Relations at our corporate address. Executive Officers Name Age Position J. Wayne Weaver 78 Chairman of the Board and Director Clifton E. Sifford 59 President, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Merchandising Officer and Director W. Kerry Jackson 51 Senior Executive Vice President - Chief Operating and Financial Officer and Treasurer Timothy T. Baker 56 Executive Vice President - Store Operations Carl N. Scibetta 54 Executive Vice President - General Merchandise Manager Kathy A. Yearwood 46 Senior Vice President - Controller and Chief Accounting Officer Mr. Weaver is Shoe Carnival’s largest shareholder and has served as Chairman of the Board since March 1988. From 1978 until February 2, 1993, Mr. Weaver had served as president and chief executive officer of Nine West Group, Inc., a designer, developer and marketer of women’s footwear. He has over 40 years of experience in the footwear industry. Mr. Weaver is a former director of Nine West Group, Inc. Mr. Weaver served as chairman and chief executive officer of Jacksonville Jaguars, LTD until January 2012. He is a member of LC Footwear, LLC. Mr. Sifford has been employed as President, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Merchandising Officer and has served as a Director since October 2012. From June 2001 to October 2012, Mr. Sifford served as Executive Vice President - General Merchandise Manager and from April 13, 1997 to June 2001, Mr. Sifford served as Senior Vice President - General Merchandise Manager. Prior to joining us, Mr. Sifford served as merchandise manager-shoes for Belk Store Services, Inc. Mr. Jackson has been employed as Senior Executive Vice President, Chief Operating and Financial Officer and Treasurer since October 2012. From August 2004 to October 2012, Mr. Jackson served as Executive Vice President - Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. From June 2001 to August 2004, Mr. Jackson served as Senior Vice President – Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. From September 1996 to June 2001, Mr. Jackson served as Vice President – Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. From January 1993 to September 1996, Mr. Jackson served as Vice President - Controller and Chief Accounting Officer. Prior to January 1993, Mr. Jackson held various accounting positions with us. Prior to joining us in 1988, Mr. Jackson was associated with a public accounting firm. He is a Certified Public Accountant. Mr. Baker has been employed as Executive Vice President - Store Operations since June 2001. From March 1994 to June 2001, Mr. Baker served as Senior Vice President - Store Operations. From May 1992 to March 1994, Mr. Baker served as Vice President - Store Operations. Prior to that time, he served as one of our regional managers. From 1983 to June 1989, Mr. Baker held various retail management positions with Payless ShoeSource. Mr. Scibetta has been employed as Executive Vice President - General Merchandise Manager since December 2012. Prior to joining us, Mr. Scibetta served as Vice President, Divisional Merchandise Manager-Footwear for Belk, Inc. since 2008. From 2004 to 2007, Mr. Scibetta served as Vice President, Divisional Merchandise Manager-Footwear for Parisian Department Stores. From 1998 to 2000, Mr. Scibetta served as Vice President, Divisional Merchandise Manager for Shoe Corporation of America. Mr. Scibetta began his retail career with Wohl Shoe Company in 1980. 8 Ms. Yearwood has served as Senior Vice President - Controller since March 2011, principal accounting officer since March 2010 and Chief Accounting Officer since June 2010. From March 2005 through February 2011, Ms. Yearwood served as Vice President - Controller and prior to that served as corporate Controller since joining us in December 2002. Before joining us, Ms. Yearwood served in various financial positions in the radio, newspaper and public accounting industries. She is a Certified Public Accountant. Our executive officers serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors. There is no family relationship between any of our Directors or executive officers. (Pursuant to General Instruction G (3) of Form 10-K, the foregoing information is included as an unnumbered Item in PART I of this annual report in lieu of being included in our Proxy Statement for our 2013 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this annual report before making an investment decision with respect to our common stock. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. If any of the following risks actually occur, we may not be able to conduct our business as currently planned and our financial condition and operating results could be seriously harmed. See PART I “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information” at the beginning of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Economic conditions and unemployment rates may adversely affect consumer spending and may significantly harm our business. The success of our business depends to a significant extent upon the level of consumer spending. A number of factors may affect the level of consumer spending on merchandise that we offer, including, among other things: ·general economic, industry and weather conditions; ·unemployment trends and salaries and wage rates; ·energy costs, which affect gasoline and home heating prices; ·the level of consumer debt; ·consumer credit availability; ·real estate values and foreclosure rates; ·consumer confidence in future economic conditions; ·interest rates; ·tax rates and policies; and ·war, terrorism, other hostilities and security concerns. The merchandise we sell generally consists of discretionary items. Adverse economic conditions and unemployment rates, and any related decrease in consumer confidence and spending may result in reduced consumer demand for discretionary items. Any decrease in consumer demand could reduce traffic in our stores, limit the prices we can charge for our products and force us to take inventory markdowns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Reduced demand may also require increased selling and promotional expenses. Reduced demand and increased competition could increase the need to close underperforming stores, which could result in higher than anticipated closing costs. 9 We face significant competition in our markets and we may be unable to compete favorably. The retail footwear industry is highly competitive with few barriers to entry. We compete primarily with department stores, shoe stores, sporting goods stores, online retailers and mass merchandisers. Many of our competitors are significantly larger and have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. Economic pressures on or bankruptcies of our competition could result in increased pricing pressures. This competition could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition in the future. Our failure to identify fashion trends could result in lower sales, higher markdowns and lower gross profits. Our success depends upon our ability to anticipate and react to the fashion tastes of our customers and provide merchandise that satisfies consumer demand. Our failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately to changes in consumer fashion preferences may result in lower sales, higher markdowns to reduce excess inventories and lower gross profits. Conversely, if we fail to anticipate or react to consumer demand for our products, we may experience inventory shortages, which would result in lost sales and could negatively impact our customer goodwill, our brand image and our profitability. Moreover, our business relies on continuous changes in fashion preferences. Stagnating consumer preferences could also result in lower sales and would require us to take higher markdowns to reduce excess inventories. A failure to increase sales at our existing stores may adversely affect our stock price and impact our results of operations. A number of factors have historically affected, and will continue to affect, our comparable store sales results, including: ·competition; ·timing of holidays including sales tax holidays; ·general regional and national economic conditions; ·inclement weather; ·consumer trends, such as less disposable income due to the impact of higher prices on consumer goods; ·fashion trends; ·changes in our merchandise mix; ·our ability to efficiently distribute merchandise; ·timing and type of, and customer response to, sales events, promotional activities or other advertising; ·the effectiveness of our inventory management; ·new merchandise introductions; and ·our ability to execute our business strategy effectively. Our comparable store sales results have fluctuated in the past, and we believe such fluctuations may continue. The unpredictability of our comparable store sales may cause our revenue and results of operations to vary from quarter to quarter, and an unanticipated decline in revenues or operating income may cause our stock price to fluctuate significantly. We depend on our key suppliers for merchandise and advertising support and the loss of key suppliers could adversely affect our business. Our business depends upon our ability to purchase fashionable, name brand and other merchandise at competitive prices from our suppliers. In fiscal 2012, two branded suppliers, Nike USA, Inc. and Skechers USA, Inc., collectively accounted for over 37% of our net sales. Nike USA, Inc. accounted for over 27% of our net sales and Skechers USA, Inc. accounted for approximately 10%. Name brand suppliers also provide us with cooperative advertising and visual merchandising funds. A loss of any of our key suppliers in certain product categories or our inability to obtain name brand or other merchandise from suppliers at competitive prices could have a material adverse effect on our business. As is common in the industry, we do not have any long-term contracts with our suppliers. 10 An increase in the cost or a disruption in the flow of imported goods may decrease our sales and profits. We rely on imported goods to sell in our stores. Substantially all of the footwear product we sell is manufactured overseas, including the merchandise we import directly from overseas manufacturers and agents and the merchandise we purchase from domestic vendors. The primary footwear manufacturers are located in China, Brazil, Europe and East Asia. A disruption in the flow of imported merchandise or an increase in the cost of those goods may decrease our sales and profits. In addition, we do not control our vendors or their labor and business practices. The violation of labor or other laws by one of our vendors could have an adverse effect on our business. If imported merchandise becomes more expensive or unavailable, the transition to alternative sources may not occur in time to meet our demands. Products from alternative sources may be of lesser quality and more expensive than those we currently import. Other risks associated with our use of imported goods include: ·disruptions in the flow of imported goods because of factors such as electricity or raw material shortages, work stoppages, strikes, political unrest and natural disasters; ·problems with oceanic shipping, including shipping container shortages and piracy; ·economic crises and international disputes; ·currency exchange rate fluctuations; ·increases in the cost of purchasing or shipping foreign merchandise resulting from the failure to maintain normal trade relations with source countries; ·import duties, import quotas and other trade sanctions; ·increases in shipping rates imposed by the trans-Pacific shipping cartel; and ·the impact of regulatory changes in the United States and the countries where our manufacturers are located, including but not limited to requirements relating to shipping security, product safety and testing and environmental requirements. We may not be able to successfully execute our growth strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We intend to open new stores as a part of our growth strategy. We may not be able to open all of the new stores contemplated by our growth strategy and the new stores that we open may not be as profitable as existing stores. The complexity of our operations and management responsibilities will increase as we grow. Our growth strategy requires that we continue to expand and improve our operating and financial systems and to expand, train and manage our employee base. In addition, as we open new stores, we may be unable to hire a sufficient number of qualified store personnel or successfully integrate the new stores into our business. The success of our growth strategy will depend on a number of other factors, many of which are out of our control, including, among other things: ·our ability to locate suitable store sites and negotiate store leases (for new stores and renewals) on favorable terms; ·the acceptance of the Shoe Carnival concept in new markets; ·our ability to provide adequate distribution to support growth; ·our ability to source sufficient levels of inventory to meet the needs of new stores; 11 ·particularly in new markets, our ability to open a sufficient number of new stores to provide the critical mass needed for efficient advertising and effective name recognition; ·the availability of financing for capital expenditures and working capital requirements; ·our ability to improve costs and timing associated with opening new stores; and ·the impact of new stores on sales or profitability of existing stores in the same market. Due to the risks involved, we may be unable to open new stores at the rates expected. If we fail to successfully implement our growth strategy, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Various risks associated with our e-commerce business may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We launched our e-commerce business during the third quarter of 2011, selling shoes and related accessories through our website at www.shoecarnival.com. Although our e-commerce operations are not at this time material in relation to our total sales, we anticipate that the percentage of our sales through our e-commerce site will grow and thus the risks associated with these operations could have an impact on our overall operations. Our e-commerce operations are subject to numerous risks, including unanticipated operating problems, reliance on third party computer hardware and software providers and our third party fulfillment agent, and the need to invest in additional computer systems. Any significant interruptions in the operations of these third party providers and fulfillment agent, over which we have no control, could have a material adverse effect on our e-commerce business. Our e-commerce operations also involve other risks that could have an impact on our results of operations including hiring, retaining and training personnel to conduct our e-commerce operations, diversion of sales from our stores, our ability to manage any upgrades or other technological changes, exposure to potential liability for online content, risks related to the failure of the computer systems that operate our e-commerce site and its related support systems, including computer viruses, telecommunication failures and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, and security risks related to our electronic processing and transmission of confidential customer information. There can be no assurance that our e-commerce operations will achieve growing sales and profitability. We would be adversely affected if our distribution or information technology operations were disrupted. We currently operate a single, 410,000 square foot distribution center in Evansville, Indiana. Virtually all merchandise received by our stores and our third party fulfillment agent for our e-commerce orders is and will be shipped through our distribution center. Our corporate computer network is essential to our distribution process. If our distribution center is shut down for any reason, such as a natural disaster, power outage or terrorist attack, or if our information technology systems do not operate effectively, or if we are the target of attacks or breaches, we could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing our products to our stores. Our insurance only covers costs relating to specified, limited matters such as a shutdown due to fire and windstorms, but does not cover other events such as acts of war, terrorist attacks or cyber security incidents. Even in the event of a shutdown due to covered matters, we cannot assure you that our insurance will be sufficient, or that the insurance proceeds will be paid to us in a timely fashion. Shutdowns or information technology disruptions could have an adverse effect on our operating and financial performance. In addition, our stores and our e-commerce site process debit and credit card transactions. We believe we have established appropriate controls to protect our customers’ personal confidential information gathered when a debit or credit card is utilized. However, in the event that such confidential information is misused or obtained by an unauthorized third party or we experience a similar cyber security incident, we could be subject to negative publicity and could be exposed to the risk of litigation that could adversely affect our business and reputation, could result in significant costs, fines, litigation or regulatory action against us and could otherwise have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We will require significant funds to implement our growth strategy and meet our other liquidity needs. We cannot assure you that we will continue to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or obtain sufficient borrowings under our existing credit agreement to finance our growth strategy and meet our other liquidity needs. In fiscal 2013, capital expenditures are expected to range from $29 million to $30 million. Our actual costs may be greater than anticipated. We also require working capital to support inventory for our existing stores. Failure to generate or raise sufficient funds may require us to modify, delay or abandon some of our future growth or expenditure plans. In addition, our results could be adversely affected if we borrow funds and interest rates materially increase from present levels. 12 If our long-lived assets become impaired, we may need to record significant non-cash impairment charges. Periodically, we review our long-lived assets for impairment whenever economic events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. Significant negative industry or general economic trends, disruptions to our business and unexpected significant changes or planned changes in our use of the assets (such as store relocations or closures) may result in impairment charges. Any such impairment charges, if significant, would adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. Our failure to manage key executive succession and retention and to continue to attract qualified personnel could adversely affect our business. Our success depends to a large extent on the continued service of our executive management team. Our business would be adversely affected if we fail to adequately plan for the succession and retention of our executive management team. While we have succession plans in place for members of our executive management team, and continue to review and update those plans, and we have employment agreements with certain key executive officers, these plans and agreements do not guarantee that the services of our executive officers will continue to be available to us or that we will be able to find suitable management personnel to replace departing executives on a timely basis. Furthermore, our strategy requires us to continue to train, motivate and manage our employees and to attract, motivate and retain additional qualified managerial and merchandising personnel. Competition for these types of personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining the personnel required to grow and operate our business profitably. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have a material adverse effect on our stock price. We must continue to document, test and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires annual reports by management regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm attesting to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We have expended, and expect that we will continue to expend, significant management time and resources documenting and testing our internal control over financial reporting. If we conclude in future periods that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, it could result in lost investor confidence in the accuracy, reliability and completeness of our financial reports. Any such events could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Our quarterly operating results will fluctuate due to seasonality and other factors. Our quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future. Our quarterly results of operations are affected by a variety of factors, including: ·fashion trends; ·calendar shifts of holiday or seasonal periods; ·the effectiveness of our inventory management; ·weather conditions; ·timing of opening of new stores; ·changes in general economic conditions and consumer spending patterns; and ·actions of competitors or co-tenants. We have three distinct peak selling periods: Easter, back-to-school and Christmas. To prepare for our peak shopping seasons, we must order and keep in stock significantly more merchandise than we would carry during other parts of the year. Any unanticipated decrease in demand for our products during these peak shopping seasons could require us to sell excess inventory at a substantial markdown, which could reduce our net sales and gross margins and negatively impact our profitability. Our operating results depend significantly upon the sales generated during these periods. 13 We also increase our inventory levels to offer styles particularly suited for the relevant season, such as sandals in the early summer season and boots during the winter season. If the weather conditions for a particular season vary significantly from those typical for such season, such as an unusually cold early summer or an unusually warm winter, consumer demand for the seasonally appropriate merchandise that we have available in our stores could be adversely affected and negatively impact net sales and margins. Lower demand for seasonally appropriate merchandise may leave us with an excess inventory of our seasonally appropriate products, forcing us to sell these products at significantly discounted prices and adversely affecting our net sales margins and operating cash flow. Conversely, if weather conditions permit us to sell our seasonal product early in the season, this may reduce inventory levels needed to meet our customers’ needs later in that same season. Consequently, our results of operations are highly dependent on somewhat predictable weather conditions and our ability to react to changes in weather conditions. If our future quarterly results fail to meet the expectations of research analysts, then the market price of our common stock could decline substantially. Our stock price may be volatile and could decline substantially. The stock market has, from time to time, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Many factors may cause the market price for our common stock to decline, including: ·operating results failing to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in any quarter; ·downward revisions in securities analysts’ estimates; ·material announcements by us or our competitors; and ·the other risk factors cited in this annual report. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the subject of securities class action litigation. If we become involved in a securities class action litigation in the future, it could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and resources, thus harming our business. We are controlled by our principal shareholder. J. Wayne Weaver, our Chairman of the Board of Directors and principal shareholder, and his spouse together own approximately 24.6% of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, Mr. Weaver is able to exert substantial influence over our management and operations. In addition, his interests may differ from or be opposed to the interests of our other shareholders, and his control may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control that may be favored by other shareholders. Provisions of our organizational documents and Indiana law might deter acquisition bids for us. Our Restated Articles of Incorporation and Indiana corporate laws contain provisions that may discourage other persons from attempting to acquire control of us, including, without limitation, a Board of Directors that has staggered terms for its members, supermajority voting provisions, restrictions on the ability of shareholders to call a special meeting of shareholders and procedural requirements in connection with shareholder proposals or director nominations. The Board of Directors has the authority to issue preferred stock in one or more series without the approval of the holders of our common stock. Further, Indiana corporate law contains business combination provisions that, in general, prohibit for five years any business combination with a beneficial owner of 10% or more of our common stock unless the holder’s acquisition of the stock was approved in advance by our Board of Directors. Indiana corporate law also contains control share acquisition provisions that limit the ability of certain shareholders to vote their shares unless their control share acquisition is approved. In certain circumstances, the fact that corporate devices are in place that inhibit or discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock. ITEM 1B. Unresolved staff comments None. 