Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s Performance and Common Stock Value Are Subject to Risks Associated With the Real Estate Industry. Adverse Economic Conditions and Other Factors Could Adversely Affect the Value of the Company’s Properties and the Company’s Cash Flow. Several factors may adversely affect the economic performance and value of the Company’s Properties. These factors include: • changes in the national, regional and local economic climate; 8 Table of Contents • local conditions such as an oversupply of lifestyle-oriented properties or a reduction in demand for lifestyle-oriented properties in the area, the attractiveness of the Company’s Properties to customers, competition from manufactured home communities and other lifestyle-oriented properties and alternative forms of housing (such as apartment buildings and site-built single family homes); • the ability of manufactured home and RV manufacturers to adapt to changes in the economic climate and the availability of units from these manufacturers; • the ability of the Company’s potential customers to sell or lease their existing site-built residences in order to purchase resort homes or cottages in the Company’s Properties, and heightened price sensitivity for seasonal and second homebuyers; • the possible reduced ability of the Company’s potential customers to obtain financing on the purchase of resort homes, resort cottages or RVs; • performance of chattel loans purchased in connection with the Acquisition (see Note 19 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Form 10-K for further discussion of the Acquisition); • government stimulus intended to primarily benefit purchasers of site-built housing; • fluctuations in the availability and price of gasoline, especially for the Company’s transient customers; • the Company’s ability to collect rent, annual payments and principal and interest from customers and pay or control maintenance, insurance and other operating costs (including real estate taxes), which could increase over time; • the failure of the Company’s assets to generate income sufficient to pay its expenses, service its debt and maintain its Properties, which may adversely affect the Company’s ability to make expected distributions to its stockholders; • the Company’s inability to meet mortgage payments on any Property that is mortgaged, in which case the lender could foreclose on the mortgage and take the Property; • interest rate levels and the availability of financing, which may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition; • changes in laws and governmental regulations (including rent control laws and regulations governing usage, zoning and taxes), which may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition; • poor weather, especially on holiday weekends in the summer, which could reduce the economic performance of the Company’s Northern resort Properties; and • the Company’s ability to sell new or upgraded right-to-use contracts and to retain customers who have previously purchased a right-to-use contract. New Acquisitions May Fail to Perform as Expected and Competition for Acquisitions May Result in Increased Prices for Properties. The Company intends to continue to acquire properties. Newly acquired Properties may fail to perform as expected. The Company may underestimate the costs necessary to bring an acquired property up to standards established for its intended market position. Difficulties in integrating acquisitions may prove costly or time-consuming and could divert management attention. Additionally, the Company expects that other real estate investors with significant capital will compete with it for attractive investment opportunities. These competitors include publicly traded REITs, private REITs and other types of investors. Such competition increases prices for properties. The Company expects to acquire properties with cash from secured or unsecured financings, proceeds from offerings of equity or debt, undistributed funds from operations and sales of investments. The Company may not be in a position or have the opportunity in the future to make suitable property acquisitions on favorable terms. The intended benefits of the Company’s acquisition of a portfolio of 74 manufactured home communities and one RV resort during the year ended December 31, 2011 may not be realized, which could have a negative impact on the market price of the Company’s common stock. 9 Table of Contents The acquisition poses risks for our ongoing operations, including that: • senior management’s attention may be diverted from the management of daily operations to the integration of the acquisition portfolio; • costs and expenses associated with any undisclosed or potential liabilities; • the acquisition portfolio may not perform as well as the Company anticipates; and • unforeseen difficulties may arise in integrating the acquisition portfolio into the Company’s portfolio. As a result of the foregoing, the Company cannot assure you that these acquisitions will be accretive to it in the near term or at all. Furthermore, if the Company fails to realize the intended benefits of the acquisition, the market price of its common stock could decline to the extent that the market price reflects those benefits. Because Real Estate Investments Are Illiquid, The Company May Not be Able to Sell Properties When Appropriate. Real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. The Company may not be able to vary its portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions, forcing the Company to accept lower than market value. This inability to respond promptly to changes in the performance of the Company’s investments could adversely affect its financial condition and ability to service debt and make distributions to its stockholders. Some Potential Losses Are Not Covered by Insurance. The Company carries comprehensive insurance coverage for losses resulting from property damage, environmental, liability claims and business interruption on all of its Properties. In addition the Company carries liability coverage for other activities not specifically related to property operations. These coverages include, but are not limited to, Directors & Officers liability, Employer Practices liability and Fiduciary liability. The Company believes that the policy specifications and coverage limits of these policies should be adequate and appropriate. There are, however, certain types of losses, such as lease and other contract claims that generally are not insured. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of coverage limits occur, the Company could lose all or a portion of the capital it has invested in a Property or the anticipated future revenue from a Property. In such an event, the Company might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the Property. The Company’s current property and casualty insurance policies, which it plans to renew, expire on April 1, 2012. The Company has a $100 million loss limit with respect to its all-risk property insurance program including named windstorms, which include, for example, hurricanes. This loss limit is subject to additional sub-limits as set forth in the policy form, including, among others, a $25 million loss limit for an earthquake in California. Policy deductibles primarily range from a $125,000 minimum to 5% per unit of insurance for most catastrophic events. A deductible indicates ELS’ maximum exposure, subject to policy sub-limits, in the event of a loss. There can be no assurance that the actions of the U.S. government, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies instituted for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets, or market response to those actions, will achieve the intended effect, and the Company’s business may not benefit from or may be adversely impacted by these actions, and further government or market developments could adversely impact the Company. In response to market disruptions, legislators and financial regulators implemented a number of mechanisms designed to add stability to the financial markets, including the provision of direct and indirect assistance to distressed financial institutions, assistance by the banking authorities in arranging acquisitions of weakened banks and broker-dealers, implementation of programs by the Federal Reserve to provide liquidity to the commercial paper markets and temporary prohibitions on short sales of certain financial institution securities. Numerous actions have been taken by the Federal Reserve, Congress, U.S. Treasury, SEC and others to address the liquidity and credit crisis that followed the sub-prime crisis that commenced in 2007. It is not clear at this time what long-term impact the liquidity and funding initiatives of the Federal Reserve and other agencies that have been previously announced, and any additional programs that may be initiated in the future, will have on the 10 Table of Contents financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced, or on the U.S. banking and financial industries and the broader U.S. and global economies. Specifically, the Company believes that programs intended to provide relief to current or potential site-built or stick-built single family homeowners, and not purchasers of Site-Set homes who lease the underlying land and RV’s, negatively impacts its business. Further, the overall effects of the legislative and regulatory efforts on the financial markets is uncertain, and they may not have the intended stabilization effects. Should these legislative or regulatory initiatives fail to stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets, the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Even if legislative or regulatory initiatives or other efforts successfully stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets, the Company may need to modify its strategies, businesses or operations, and the Company may incur increased capital requirements and constraints or additional costs in order to satisfy new regulatory requirements or to compete in a changed business environment. It is uncertain what effects recently enacted or future legislation or regulatory initiatives will have on us. Given the volatile nature of the current market disruption and the uncertainties underlying efforts to mitigate or reverse the disruption, the Company may not timely anticipate or manage existing, new or additional risks, contingencies or developments, including regulatory developments and trends in new products and services, in the current or future environment. The Company’s failure to do so could materially and adversely affect its business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The Company’s 8.034% Series A Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Stock Has Not Been Rated. The Company has not sought to obtain a rating for its 8.034% Series A Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Stock (“Series A Preferred Stock”). No assurance can be given, however, that one or more rating agencies might not independently determine to issue such a rating or that such a rating, if issued, would not adversely affect the market price of the Series A Preferred Stock. In addition, the Company may elect in the future to obtain a rating of its Series A Preferred Stock, which could adversely affect the market price of its Series A Preferred Stock. Ratings only reflect the views of the rating agency or agencies issuing the ratings and such ratings could be revised downward, placed on a watch list or withdrawn entirely at the discretion of the issuing rating agency if in its judgment circumstances so warrant. Any such downward revision, placing on a watch list or withdrawal of a rating could have an adverse effect on the market price of the Series A Preferred Stock. Adverse changes in general economic conditions may adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company’s success is dependent upon economic conditions in the U.S. generally and in the geographic areas in which a substantial number of the Company’s Properties are located. Adverse changes in national economic conditions and in the economic conditions of the regions in which the Company conducts substantial business may have an adverse effect on the real estate values of the Company’s Properties, its financial performance and the market price of its common stock. In a recession or under other adverse economic conditions, non-earning assets and write-downs are likely to increase as debtors fail to meet their payment obligations. Although the Company maintains reserves for credit losses and an allowance for doubtful accounts in amounts that it believes should be sufficient to provide adequate protection against potential write-downs in its portfolio, these amounts could prove to be insufficient. Campground Membership Properties Laws and Regulations Could Adversely Affect the Value of Certain Properties and the Company’s Cash Flow. Many of the states in which the Company does business have laws regulating right-to-use or campground membership sales. These laws generally require comprehensive disclosure to prospective purchasers, and usually give purchasers the right to rescind their purchase between three to five days after the date of sale. Some states 11 Table of Contents have laws requiring the Company to register with a state agency and obtain a permit to market. The Company is subject to changes, from time to time, in the application or interpretation of such laws that can affect its business or the rights of its members. In some states, including California, Oregon and Washington, laws place limitations on the ability of the owner of a campground property to close the property unless the customers at the property receive access to a comparable property. The impact of the rights of customers under these laws is uncertain and could adversely affect the availability or timing of sale opportunities or the ability of the Company to realize recoveries from Property sales. The government authorities regulating the Company’s activities have broad discretionary power to enforce and interpret the statutes and regulations that they administer, including the power to enjoin or suspend sales activities, require or restrict construction of additional facilities and revoke licenses and permits relating to business activities. The Company monitors its sales and marketing programs and debt collection activities to control practices that might violate consumer protection laws and regulations or give rise to consumer complaints. Certain consumer rights and defenses that vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction may affect the Company’s portfolio of contracts receivable. Examples of such laws include state and federal consumer credit and truth-in-lending laws requiring the disclosure of finance charges, and usury and retail installment sales laws regulating permissible finance charges. In certain states, as a result of government regulations and provisions in certain of the right-to-use or campground membership agreements, the Company is prohibited from selling more than ten memberships per site. At the present time, these restrictions do not preclude the Company from selling memberships in any state. However, these restrictions may limit the Company’s ability to utilize Properties for public usage and/or the Company’s ability to convert sites to more profitable or predictable uses, such as annual rentals. Debt Financing, Financial Covenants and Degree of Leverage Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Economic Performance. Scheduled Debt Payments Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Financial Condition. The Company’s business is subject to risks normally associated with debt financing. The total principal amount of the Company’s outstanding indebtedness was approximately $2.3 billion as of December 31, 2011. The Company’s substantial indebtedness and the cash flow associated with serving its indebtedness could have important consequences, including the risks that: • the Company’s cash flow could be insufficient to pay distributions at expected levels and meet required payments of principal and interest; • the Company might be required to use a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to pay its indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of its cash flow to fund the implementation of its business strategy, acquisitions, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • the Company’s debt service obligations could limit its flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the industry in which it operates; • the Company may not be able to refinance existing indebtedness (which in virtually all cases requires substantial principal payments at maturity) and, if it can, the terms of such refinancing might not be as favorable as the terms of existing indebtedness; • if principal payments due at maturity cannot be refinanced, extended or paid with proceeds of other capital transactions, such as new equity capital, the Company’s cash flow will not be sufficient in all years to repay all maturing debt; and 12 Table of Contents • if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing (such as the possible reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate loans) result in higher interest rates, increased interest expense would adversely affect cash flow and the Company’s ability to service debt and make distributions to stockholders. Ability to obtain mortgage financing or to refinance maturing mortgages may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition. Lenders demands on borrowers as to the quality of the collateral and related cash flows may make it challenging to secure financing at all or on attractive terms. If financing proceeds are no longer available for any reason or if terms are no longer attractive, these factors may adversely affect cash flow and the Company’s ability to service debt and make distributions to stockholders. Financial Covenants Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Financial Condition. If a Property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness, and the Company is unable to meet mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose on the Property, resulting in loss of income and asset value. The mortgages on the Company’s Properties contain customary negative covenants, which among other things limit the Company’s ability, without the prior consent of the lender, to further mortgage the Property and to discontinue insurance coverage. In addition, the Company’s unsecured credit facilities contain certain customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on the Company’s ability to incur indebtedness, including total debt-to-assets ratios, debt service coverage ratios and minimum ratios of unencumbered assets to unsecured debt. Foreclosure on mortgaged Properties or an inability to refinance existing indebtedness would likely have a negative impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s Degree of Leverage Could Limit Its Ability to Obtain Additional Financing. The Company’s debt-to-market-capitalization ratio (total debt as a percentage of total debt plus the market value of the outstanding common stock and Units held by parties other than the Company) was approximately 43% as of December 31, 2011. The degree of leverage could have important consequences to stockholders, including an adverse effect on the Company’s ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general corporate purposes, and makes the Company more vulnerable to a downturn in business or the economy generally. The Company may be able to incur substantially more debt, which would increase the risks associated with its substantial leverage. Despite the Company’s current indebtedness levels, it may still be able to incur substantially more debt in the future. If new debt is added to the Company’s current debt levels, an even greater portion of its cash flow will be needed to satisfy its debt service obligations. As a result, the related risks that we now face could intensify and increase the risk of a default on the Company’s indebtedness. The Company Depends on Its Subsidiaries’ Dividends and Distributions. Substantially all of the Company’s assets are indirectly held through the Operating Partnership. As a result, the Company has no source of operating cash flow other than from distributions from the Operating Partnership. The Company’s ability to pay dividends to holders of common stock and Series A Preferred Stock depends on the Operating Partnership’s ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and then to make distributions to MHC Trust and common Unit holders (in the case of common stock distributions). Similarly, MHC Trust must satisfy its obligations to its creditors (preferred stockholders in the case of common stock distributions) before making common stock or preferred stock distributions to the Company. Stockholders’ Ability to Effect Changes of Control of the Company is Limited. Provisions of the Company’s Charter and Bylaws Could Inhibit Changes of Control. Certain provisions of the Company’s charter and bylaws may delay or prevent a change of control of the Company or other transactions that could provide its stockholders with a premium over the then-prevailing market price of their common stock or Series A Preferred Stock or which might otherwise be in the best interest of its stockholders. These include the 13 Table of Contents Ownership Limit described below. Also, any future series of preferred stock may have certain voting provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be beneficial to the Company’s stockholders. Maryland Law Imposes Certain Limitations on Changes of Control. Certain provisions of Maryland law prohibit “business combinations” (including certain issuances of equity securities) with any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of outstanding common stock, or with an affiliate of the Company who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the outstanding voting stock (an “Interested Stockholder”), or with an affiliate of an Interested Stockholder. These prohibitions last for five years after the most recent date on which the Interested Stockholder became an Interested Stockholder. After the five-year period, a business combination with an Interested Stockholder must be approved by two super-majority stockholder votes unless, among other conditions, the Company’s common stockholders receive a minimum price for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the Interested Stockholder for its shares of common stock. The Board of Directors has exempted from these provisions under the Maryland law any business combination with Samuel Zell, who is the Chairman of the Board of the Company, certain holders of Units who received them at the time of the Company’s initial public offering, the General Motors Hourly Rate Employees Pension Trust and the General Motors Salaried Employees Pension Trust, and the Company’s officers who acquired common stock at the time the Company was formed and each and every affiliate of theirs. The Company Has a Stock Ownership Limit for REIT Tax Purposes. To remain qualified as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of the Company’s outstanding shares of capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the federal income tax laws applicable to REITs) at any time during the last half of any taxable year. To facilitate maintenance of the Company’s REIT qualification, the Company’s charter, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits Beneficial Ownership (as defined in the Company’s charter) by any single stockholder of more than 5% (in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the Company’s outstanding capital stock. The Company refers to this as the “Ownership Limit.” Within certain limits, the Company’s charter permits the Board of Directors to increase the Ownership Limit with respect to any class or series of stock. The Board of Directors, upon receipt of a ruling from the IRS, opinion of counsel, or other evidence satisfactory to the Board of Directors and upon 15 days prior written notice of a proposed transfer which, if consummated, would result in the transferee owning shares in excess of the Ownership Limit, and upon such other conditions as the Board of Directors may direct, may exempt a stockholder from the Ownership Limit. Absent any such exemption, capital stock acquired or held in violation of the Ownership Limit will be transferred by operation of law to the Company as trustee for the benefit of the person to whom such capital stock is ultimately transferred, and the stockholder’s rights to distributions and to vote would terminate. Such stockholder would be entitled to receive, from the proceeds of any subsequent sale of the capital stock transferred to the Company as trustee, the lesser of (i) the price paid for the capital stock or, if the owner did not pay for the capital stock (for example, in the case of a gift, devise on other such transaction), the market price of the capital stock on the date of the event causing the capital stock to be transferred to the Company as trustee or (ii) the amount realized from such sale. A transfer of capital stock may be void if it causes a person to violate the Ownership Limit. The Ownership Limit could delay or prevent a change in control of the Company and, therefore, could adversely affect its stockholders’ ability to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for their common stock or adversely affect the best interest of the Company’s stockholders. Conflicts of Interest Could Influence the Company’s Decisions. Certain Stockholders Could Exercise Influence in a Manner Inconsistent With the Stockholders’ Best Interests. As of December 31, 2011, Mr. Samuel Zell and certain affiliated holders beneficially owned approximately 8.8% of the Company’s outstanding common stock (in each case including common stock issuable upon the exercise of stock options and the exchange of Units). Mr. Zell is the chairman of the Company’s Board of Directors. Accordingly, Mr. Zell has significant influence on the Company’s management and operation. Such influence 14 Table of Contents could be exercised in a manner that is inconsistent with the interests of other stockholders. Mr. Zell and His Affiliates Continue to be Involved in Other Investment Activities. Mr. Zell and his affiliates have a broad and varied range of investment interests, including interests in other real estate investment companies involved in other forms of housing, including multifamily housing. Mr. Zell and his affiliates may acquire interests in other companies. Mr. Zell may not be able to control whether any such company competes with the Company. Consequently, Mr. Zell’s continued involvement in other investment activities could result in competition to the Company as well as management decisions which might not reflect the interests of the Company’s stockholders. Members of Management May Have a Conflict of Interest Over Whether To Enforce Terms of Mr. McAdams’s Employment and Noncompetition Agreement. Mr. McAdams was the Company’s President until January 31, 2011 and had an employment and noncompetition agreement with the Company that expired on December 31, 2010. For the most part these restrictions apply to him both during his employment and for two years thereafter. Mr. McAdams is also prohibited from otherwise disrupting or interfering with the Company’s business through the solicitation of the Company’s employees or customers or otherwise. To the extent that the Company chooses to enforce its rights under any of these agreements, it may determine to pursue available remedies, such as actions for damages or injunctive relief, less vigorously than the Company otherwise might because of its desire to maintain its ongoing relationship with Mr. McAdams. Additionally, the non-competition provisions of his agreement, despite being limited in scope and duration, could be difficult to enforce, or may be subject to limited enforcement, should litigation arise over it in the future. (See Note 13 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Form 10-K.) Risk of Eminent Domain and Tenant Litigation. The Company owns Properties in certain areas of the country where real estate values have increased faster than rental rates in its Properties either because of locally imposed rent control or long term leases. In such areas, the Company has learned that certain local government entities have investigated the possibility of seeking to take the Company’s Properties by eminent domain at values below the value of the underlying land. While no such eminent domain proceeding has been commenced, and the Company would exercise all of its rights in connection with any such proceeding, successful condemnation proceedings by municipalities could adversely affect its financial condition. Moreover, certain of its Properties located in California are subject to rent control ordinances, some of which not only severely restrict ongoing rent increases but also prohibit the Company from increasing rents upon turnover. Such regulations allow customers to sell their homes for a premium representing the value of the future discounted rent-controlled rents. As part of the Company’s effort to realize the value of its Properties subject to rent control, the Company has initiated lawsuits against several municipalities in California. In response to the Company’s efforts, tenant groups have filed lawsuits against the Company seeking not only to limit rent increases, but to be awarded large damage awards. If the Company is unsuccessful in its efforts to challenge rent control ordinances, it is likely that the Company will not be able to charge rents that reflect the intrinsic value of the affected Properties. Finally, tenant groups in non-rent controlled markets have also attempted to use litigation as a means of protecting themselves from rent increases reflecting the rental value of the affected Properties. An unfavorable outcome in the tenant group lawsuits could have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition. Environmental and Utility-Related Problems Are Possible and Can be Costly. Federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment may require a current or previous owner or operator of real estate to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at such property. The owner or operator may have to pay a governmental entity or third parties for property damage and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by such parties in connection with the contamination. Such laws typically impose clean-up responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. Even if more than one person 15 Table of Contents may have been responsible for the contamination, each person covered by the environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs incurred. In addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from that site. Environmental laws also govern the presence, maintenance and removal of asbestos. Such laws require that owners or operators of property containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, that they notify and train those who may come into contact with asbestos and that they undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, if asbestos would be disturbed during renovation or demolition of a building. Such laws may impose fines and penalties on real property owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos fibers. Utility-related laws and regulations also govern the provision of utility services and operations of water and wastewater treatment facilities. Such laws regulate, for example, how and to what extent owners or operators of property can charge renters for provision of, for example, electricity, and whether and to what extent such utility services can be charged separately from the base rent. Such laws also regulate the operations and performance of water treatment facilities and wastewater treatment facilities. Such laws may impose fines and penalties on real property owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements. The Company has a Significant Concentration of Properties in Florida and California, and Natural Disasters or Other Catastrophic Events in These or Other States Could Adversely Affect the Value of Its Properties and the Its Cash Flow. As of December 31, 2011, the Company owned or had an ownership interest in 382 Properties located in 32 states and British Columbia, including 119 Properties located in Florida and 49 Properties located in California. The occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event in any of these areas may cause a sudden decrease in the value of the Company’s Properties. While the Company has obtained insurance policies providing certain coverage against damage from fire, flood, property damage, earthquake, wind storm and business interruption, these insurance policies contain coverage limits, limits on covered property and various deductible amounts that the Company must pay before insurance proceeds are available. Such insurance may therefore be insufficient to restore the Company’s economic position with respect to damage or destruction to its Properties caused by such occurrences. Moreover, each of these coverages must be renewed every year and there is the possibility that all or some of the coverages may not be available at a reasonable cost. In addition, in the event of such a natural disaster or other catastrophic event, the process of obtaining reimbursement for covered losses, including the lag between expenditures incurred by the Company and reimbursements received from the insurance providers, could adversely affect the Company’s economic performance. Market Interest Rates May Have an Effect on the Value of the Company’s Common Stock. One of the factors that investors consider important in deciding whether to buy or sell shares of a REIT is the distribution rates with respect to such shares (as a percentage of the price of such shares) relative to market interest rates. If market interest rates go up, prospective purchasers of REIT shares may expect a higher distribution rate. Higher interest rates would not, however, result in more funds for the Company to distribute and, in fact, would likely increase its borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. Thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of the Company’s publicly traded securities to go down. The Company Is Dependent on External Sources of Capital. To qualify as a REIT, the Company must distribute to its stockholders each year at least 90% of its REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding any net capital gain). In addition, the Company intends to distribute all or substantially all of its net income so that it will generally not be 16 Table of Contents subject to U.S. federal income tax on its earnings. Because of these distribution requirements, it is not likely that the Company will be able to fund all future capital needs, including for acquisitions, from income from operations. The Company therefore will have to rely on third-party sources of debt and equity capital financing, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. The Company’s access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of things, including conditions in the capital markets generally and the market’s perception of its growth potential and its current and potential future earnings. It may be difficult for the Company to meet one or more of the requirements for qualification as a REIT, including but not limited to its distribution requirement. Moreover, additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of stockholders’ interests, and additional debt financing may substantially increase the Company’s leverage. The Company’s Qualification as a REIT is Dependent on Compliance With U.S. Federal Income Tax Requirements. The Company believes it has been organized and operated in a manner so as to qualify for taxation as a REIT, and it intends to continue to operate so as to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Qualification as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, however, is governed by highly technical and complex provisions of the Code for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations. In connection with certain transactions, the Company has received, and relied upon, advice of counsel as to the impact of such transactions on its qualification as a REIT. The Company’s qualification as a REIT requires analysis of various facts and circumstances that may not be entirely within its control, and it cannot provide any assurance that the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) will agree with its analysis or the analysis of its tax counsel. In particular, the proper federal income tax treatment of right-to-use membership contracts is uncertain and there is no assurance that the IRS will agree with the Company’s treatment of such contracts. If the IRS were to disagree with the Company’s analysis or its tax counsel’s analysis of various facts and circumstances, the Company’s ability to qualify as a REIT could be adversely affected. Such matters could affect the Company’s qualification as a REIT. In addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions might significantly change the tax laws with respect to the requirements for qualification as a REIT or the U.S. federal income tax consequences of qualification as a REIT. If, with respect to any taxable year, the Company failed to maintain the Company’s qualification as a REIT (and if specified relief provisions under the Code were not applicable to such disqualification), it could not deduct distributions to stockholders in computing its net taxable income and it would be subject to U.S. federal income tax on its net taxable income at regular corporate rates. Any U.S. federal income tax payable could include applicable alternative minimum tax. If the Company had to pay U.S. federal income tax, the amount of money available to distribute to stockholders and pay indebtedness would be reduced for the year or years involved, and the Company would no longer be required to distribute money to stockholders. In addition, the Company would also be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost, unless it was entitled to relief under the relevant statutory provisions. Although the Company currently intends to operate in a manner designed to allow the Company to qualify as a REIT, future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause it to revoke the REIT election. Interpretation of and Changes to Accounting Policies and Standards Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Reported Financial Results. The Company’s Accounting Policies and Methods Are the Basis on Which It Reports Its Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and They May Require Management to Make Estimates About Matters that Are Inherently Uncertain. The Company’s accounting policies and methods are fundamental to the manner in which it records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. Management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods in order to ensure that they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment as to the most appropriate manner in which to record and report the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be 17 Table of Contents reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in reporting materially different amounts than would have been reported under a different alternative. Changes in Accounting Standards Could Adversely Affect The Company’s Reported Financial Results. The bodies that set accounting standards for public companies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), the SEC and others, periodically change or revise existing interpretations of the accounting and reporting standards that govern the way that the Company reports its financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact the Company’s reported financial results. In some cases, the Company could be required to apply a new or revised accounting standard, or a revised interpretation of an accounting standard, retroactively, which could have a negative impact on reported results or result in the restatement of the Company’s financial statements for prior periods. The Company’s Accounting Policies for the Entering Right-To-Use Contracts Will Result in a Substantial Deferral of Revenue in its Financial Results. Beginning August 14, 2008, the Company began entering right-to-use contracts. Customers who enter upgraded right-to-use contracts are generally required to make an upfront nonrefundable payment to the Company. The Company incurs significant selling and marketing expenses to originate the right-to-use contracts, and the majority of expenses must be expensed in the period incurred, while the related revenues and commissions are generally deferred and recognized over the expected life of the contract, which is estimated based upon historical attrition rates. The expected life of a right-to-use contract is currently estimated to be between one and 31 years. As a result, the Company may incur a loss from entering right-to-use contracts, build up a substantial deferred revenue liability balance, and recognize substantial non-cash revenue in the years subsequent to originally entering the contracts. This accounting may make it difficult for investors to interpret the financial results from the entry of right-to-use contracts. In 2008, the Company submitted correspondence to the Office of the Chief Accountant at the SEC describing the right-to-use contracts and subsequently discussed the revenue recognition policy with respect to the contracts with the SEC. The SEC does not object to the Company’s application of the Codification Topic “Revenue Recognition” (“FASB ASC 605”) with respect to the deferral of the upfront nonrefundable payments received from the entry of right-to-use contracts. (See Note 2(n) in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Form 10-K for the Company’s revenue recognition policy.) Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 