Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this annual report before making an investment decision with respect to our common stock. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. If any of the following risks actually occurs, we may not be able to conduct our business as currently planned and our financial condition and operating results could be seriously harmed. See “BUSINESS - Forward-Looking Statements.” We may not be able to successfully execute our growth strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We intend to open new stores as a part of our growth strategy. We may not be able to open all of the new stores contemplated by our growth strategy and the new stores that we open may not be as profitable as existing stores. The complexity of our operations and management responsibilities will increase as we grow. Our growth strategy requires that we continue to expand and improve our operating and financial systems and to expand, train and manage our employee base. In addition, as we open new stores, we may be unable to hire a sufficient number of qualified store personnel or successfully integrate the new stores into our business. The success of our growth strategy will depend on a number of other factors, many of which are out of our control, including, among other things: • our ability to locate suitable store sites and negotiate store leases on favorable terms; • the acceptance of the Shoe Carnival concept in new markets; • the availability of financing for capital expenditures and working capital requirements; • our ability to provide adequate distribution to support growth; • particularly in new markets, our ability to open a sufficient number of new stores to provide the critical mass needed for efficient advertising and effective name recognition; • our ability to improve costs and timing associated with opening new stores; and • the impact of new stores on sales or profitability of existing stores in the same market. Due to the risks involved, we may be unable to open new stores at the rates expected. If we fail to successfully implement our growth strategy, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may not be able to achieve comparable store sales gains in the future, which could cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock. A variety of factors affect our comparable store sales results, including: • economic conditions; • the retail sales environment; • the results of our merchandising strategies; • the impact of relatively new stores and new markets; and • the success of our marketing and promotional programs. 7 Declines or fluctuations in our comparable store sales could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. We depend on our key suppliers for merchandise and advertising support and the loss of key suppliers could adversely affect our business. Our business depends upon our ability to purchase fashionable, name brand and other merchandise at competitive prices from our suppliers. In 2004, three branded suppliers, Nike USA, Inc., Reebok International Ltd. and Skechers USA, Inc., each accounted for more than 10% of our net sales and together accounted for approximately 36% of net sales. Name brand suppliers also provide us with cooperative advertising and visual merchandising funds. A loss of any of our key suppliers in certain product categories could have a material adverse effect on our business. Although our relations with key suppliers are currently satisfactory and we have adequate sources of name brand and other merchandise at competitive prices, we cannot assure you that we will be able to acquire such merchandise at comparable prices or on comparable terms in the future. As is common in the industry, we do not have any long-term contracts with our suppliers. An increase in the cost or a disruption in the flow of our imported goods may decrease our sales and profits. We rely on imported goods to sell in our stores. Substantially all of the footwear product we sell is manufactured overseas, including the merchandise we import directly from overseas manufacturers and agents and the merchandise we purchase from domestic vendors. The primary footwear manufacturers are located in China, Brazil and East Asia. A disruption in the flow of imported merchandise or an increase in the cost of those goods may decrease our sales and profits. If imported merchandise becomes more expensive or unavailable, the transition to alternative sources may not occur in time to meet our demands. Products from alternative sources may be of lesser quality and more expensive than those we currently import. Other risks associated with our use of imported goods include: disruptions in the flow of imported goods because of factors such as electricity or raw material shortages, work stoppages, strikes and political unrest; problems with oceanic shipping, including shipping container shortages; economic crises and international disputes; increases in the cost of purchasing or shipping foreign merchandise resulting from the failure to maintain normal trade relations with source countries; import duties, import quotas and other trade sanctions; and increases in shipping rates imposed by the trans-Pacific shipping cartel. Our failure to identify fashion trends could result in lower sales, higher markdowns and lower gross profits. Our success depends upon our ability to anticipate and react to the fashion tastes of our customers and provide merchandise that satisfies customer demand. Our failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately to changes in consumer fashion preferences may result in lower sales, higher markdowns to reduce excess inventories and lower gross profits. Conversely, if we fail to anticipate or react to consumer demand for our products, we may experience inventory shortages, which would result in lost sales and could negatively impact our customer goodwill, our brand image and our profitability. Moreover, our business relies on continuous changes in fashion preferences. Stagnating consumer preferences could also result in lower sales and would require us to take higher markdowns to reduce excess inventories. Our failure to retain our existing senior management team and to continue to attract qualified personnel could adversely affect our business. Our success depends to a large extent on the continued service of our executive management team. Departures by executive officers could have a negative impact on our business, as we may not be able to find suitable management personnel to replace departing executives on a timely basis. Furthermore, our strategy requires us to continue to train, motivate and manage our employees and to attract, motivate and retain additional qualified managerial and merchandising personnel. Competition for these types of personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining the personnel required to grow and operate our business profitably. We face significant competition in our markets and we may be unable to compete favorably. The retail footwear industry is highly competitive. We compete primarily with department stores, shoe stores, sporting goods stores and mass merchandisers. Many of our competitors have greater financial resources than we do. Economic pressures on or bankruptcies of vendors could result in increased pricing pressures. This competition could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition in the future. Our stores compete, among other things, on the basis of convenience of location and store layout, product mix and selection, customer convenience and price. We will require significant funds to implement our growth strategy and meet our other liquidity needs. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or obtain sufficient borrowings under our existing credit agreement to finance our growth strategy and meet our other liquidity needs. In 2005, capital expenditures, including assets acquired through leasing arrangements but net of lease incentives, are expected to range from $12 million to $14 million. Our actual costs may be greater than anticipated. We also require working capital to support inventory for our existing stores. Failure to generate or raise sufficient funds may require us to modify, delay or abandon some of our future growth or expenditure plans. Also, our results would be adversely affected if interest rates materially increase from present levels. 8 Declines in general economic conditions and fluctuations in consumer confidence and spending could lead to reduced consumer demand for our products. General economic conditions and consumer confidence and spending can decline as a result of numerous factors outside of our control such as rising oil prices, terrorist attacks, acts of war and natural disasters. While the precise effects of these events on our industry and business are difficult to determine, they could lead to reduced consumer demand for our products and it is possible that they may have an adverse effect on our operating and financial performance. We would be adversely affected if our distribution or IT operations were disrupted. We operate a single, 200,000 square foot distribution center in Evansville, Indiana. Virtually all merchandise received by our stores, with the exception of a small amount of goods shipped directly to the stores, is shipped through our distribution center. Our corporate computer network is essential to our distribution process. If our distribution center is shut down for any reason, such as a national disaster, power outage or terrorist attack, or if our information technology systems do not operate effectively, we could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing our products to our stores. We maintain insurance to protect us from the costs relating to matters such as a shutdown, but we cannot assure you that our insurance will be sufficient, or that the insurance proceeds will be timely paid to us, in the event of a shutdown. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have a material adverse effect on our stock price. We must continue to document, test and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires annual reports by management regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm attesting to management’s assessment and the effectiveness of the internal control. We have, and expect that we will continue to, expend significant management time and resources documenting and testing our internal control over financial reporting. While management’s evaluation as of January 29, 2005 resulted in the conclusion that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of that date, we cannot predict the outcome of testing in future periods. If we conclude in future periods that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, it could result in lost investor confidence in the accuracy, reliability and completeness of our financial reports. Any such events could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. We are controlled by our principal shareholder. J. Wayne Weaver, our Chairman of the Board of Directors and principal shareholder, his spouse and his adult children together own approximately 47% of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, Mr. Weaver is able to exert substantial influence over our management and operations. In addition, his interests may differ from or be opposed to the interests of our other shareholders, and his control may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control that may be favored by other shareholders. Our stock price may be volatile and could decline substantially. The stock market has, from time to time, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Many factors may cause the market price for our common stock to decline, including: • operating results failing to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in any quarter; • downward revisions in securities analysts’ estimates; • material announcements by us or our competitors; and • the other risk factors cited in this annual report. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the subject of securities class action litigation. If we become involved in a securities class action litigation in the future, it could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and resources, thus harming our business. 9 Our quarterly operating results will fluctuate due to seasonality and other factors. Our quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future. Our quarterly results of operations are affected by a variety of factors, including: • fashion trends; • calendar shifts of holiday or seasonal periods; • the effectiveness of our inventory management; • weather conditions; • timing of opening of new stores; • changes in general economic conditions and consumer spending patterns; and • actions of competitors or co-tenants. We have three distinct peak selling periods: Easter, back-to-school and Christmas. To prepare for our peak shopping seasons, we must order and keep in stock significantly more merchandise than we would carry during other parts of the year. Any unanticipated decrease in demand for our products during these peak shopping seasons could require us to sell excess inventory at a substantial markdown, which could reduce our net sales and gross margins and negatively impact our profitability. Our operating results depend significantly upon the sales generated during these periods. If our future quarterly results fail to meet the expectations of research analysts, then the market price of our common stock could decline substantially. Provisions of our organizational documents and Indiana law might deter acquisition bids for us. Our Restated Articles of Incorporation and Indiana corporate laws contain provisions that may discourage other persons from attempting to acquire control of us, including, without limitation, a Board of Directors that has staggered terms for its members, supermajority voting provisions, restrictions on the ability of shareholders to call a special meeting of shareholders and procedural requirements in connection with shareholder proposals or director nominations. The Board of Directors has the authority to issue preferred stock in one or more series without the approval of the holders of the common stock. In certain circumstances, the fact that corporate devices are in place which inhibit or discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of the common stock. 