Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe Company’s Performance and Common Stock Value Are Subject to Risks Associated With the Real Estate Industry.Adverse Economic Conditions and Other Factors Could Adversely Affect the Value of the Company’s Properties and the Company’s Cash Flow. Several factors may adversely affect the economic performance and value of the Company’s Properties. These factors include:•changes in the national, regional and local economic climate;•local conditions such as an oversupply of lifestyle-oriented properties or a reduction in demand for lifestyle-oriented properties in the area, the attractiveness of the Company’s Properties to customers, competition from manufactured home communities and other lifestyle-oriented properties and alternative forms of housing (such as apartment buildings and site-built single family homes);•the ability of manufactured home and RV manufacturers to adapt to changes in the economic climate and the availability of units from these manufacturers;•the ability of the Company’s potential customers to sell or lease their existing site-built residences in order to purchase resort homes or cottages at the Company’s Properties, and heightened price sensitivity for seasonal and second homebuyers;•the possible reduced ability of the Company’s potential customers to obtain financing on the purchase of resort homes, resort cottages or RVs;•performance of chattel loans purchased in connection with the 2011 Acquisition (see Note 19 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Form 10-K for further discussion of the 2011 Acquisition);•government stimulus intended to primarily benefit purchasers of site-built housing;•fluctuations in the availability and price of gasoline, especially for the Company’s transient customers;•the Company’s ability to collect rent, annual payments and principal and interest from customers and pay or control maintenance, insurance and other operating costs (including real estate taxes), which could increase over time;•the failure of the Company’s assets to generate income sufficient to pay its expenses, service its debt and maintain its Properties, which may adversely affect the Company’s ability to make expected distributions to its stockholders;•the Company’s inability to meet mortgage payments on any Property that is mortgaged, in which case the lender could foreclose on the mortgage and take the Property;•interest rate levels and the availability of financing, which may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition;•changes in laws and governmental regulations (including rent control laws and regulations governing usage, zoning and taxes), which may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition;•poor weather, especially on holiday weekends in the summer, which could reduce the economic performance of the Company’s Northern resort Properties; and•the Company’s ability to attract customers to enter new or upgraded right-to-use contracts and to retain customers who have previously entered right-to-use contracts.New Acquisitions May Fail to Perform as Expected and Competition for Acquisitions May Result in Increased Prices for Properties. The Company intends to continue to acquire properties. Newly acquired Properties may fail to perform as expected. The Company may underestimate the costs necessary to bring an acquired property up to standards established for its intended market position. Difficulties in integrating acquisitions may prove costly or time-consuming and could divert management attention. Additionally, the Company expects that other real estate investors with significant capital will compete with it for attractive investment opportunities. These competitors include publicly traded REITs, private REITs and other types of investors. Such competition 7increases prices for properties. The Company expects to acquire properties with cash from secured or unsecured financings, proceeds from offerings of equity or debt, undistributed funds from operations and sales of investments. The Company may not be in a position or have the opportunity in the future to make suitable property acquisitions on favorable terms.The intended benefits of the Company’s acquisitions may not be realized, which could have a negative impact on the market price of the Company’s common stock.Acquisitions pose risks for our ongoing operations, including that:•senior management’s attention may be diverted from the management of daily operations to the integration of an acquisition;•costs and expenses associated with any undisclosed or potential liabilities;•an acquisition may not perform as well as the Company anticipates; and•unforeseen difficulties may arise in integrating an acquisition into the Company’s portfolio.As a result of the foregoing, the Company cannot assure you that any acquisitions that it makes will be accretive to it in the near term or at all. Furthermore, if the Company fails to realize the intended benefits of an acquisition, the market price of its common stock could decline to the extent that the market price reflects those benefits.Further, with respect to one of the properties that the Company acquired in its 2011 Acquisition of a portfolio of 74 manufactured home communities and one RV resort, the Company owns both a fee interest and a leasehold interest. The ground lease contains a purchase option on behalf of the lessee and a put option on behalf of the lessor. The options may be exercised by either party upon the death of the fee holder. The Company is the beneficiary of an escrow funded by the seller with approximately 114,000 shares of the Company’s common stock. The escrow provides for distributions of the escrowed stock on a quarterly basis to protect the Company from future scheduled ground lease payments as well as scheduled increases in the option purchase price over time. In connection with the purchase price allocation associated with the acquisition of these 74 properties, the Company recorded contingent consideration of approximately $6.7 million related to this escrow. If the Company does not receive distributions of all of the escrowed stock prior to the death of the fee holder, the Company will have to charge the remaining amount of this contingent consideration to operations.Because Real Estate Investments Are Illiquid, The Company May Not be Able to Sell Properties When Appropriate. Real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. The Company may not be able to vary its portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions, forcing the Company to accept lower than market value. This inability to respond promptly to changes in the performance of the Company’s investments could adversely affect its financial condition and ability to service debt and make distributions to its stockholders.The Decline in Home Sales Has Resulted in the Company Increasing its Rental Program to Maintain Occupancy. Due to market conditions, the Company has experienced a decline in home sales at its Properties. To maintain occupancy, the Company has increased its manufactured home rental operations by purchasing new homes for rental and also renting used homes acquired from customers through purchase, lien sale or abandonment. While the Company’s long-term goal is to sell these rental units to homeowners, there is no assurance that the Company will be successful and it may not be able to liquidate its investment in these in homes. In addition, the Company’s home rental operations compete with other types of rentals (e.g., apartments), and there is no assurance that Company will be able to maintain tenants in its investment of rental units.Some Potential Losses Are Not Covered by Insurance. The Company carries comprehensive insurance coverage for losses resulting from property damage, environmental, liability claims and business interruption on all of its Properties. In addition the Company carries liability coverage for other activities not specifically related to property operations. These coverages include, but are not limited to, Directors & Officers liability, Employer Practices liability and Fiduciary liability. The Company believes that the policy specifications and coverage limits of these policies should be adequate and appropriate. There are, however, certain types of losses, such as lease and other contract claims that generally are not insured. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of coverage limits occur, the Company could lose all or a portion of the capital it has invested in a Property or the anticipated future revenue from a Property. In such an event, the Company might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the Property.The Company’s current property and casualty insurance policies, which it plans to renew, expire on April 1, 2013. The Company has a $100 million loss limit with respect to its all-risk property insurance program including named windstorms, which include, for example, hurricanes. This loss limit is subject to additional sub-limits as set forth in the policy form, including, among others, a $25 million loss limit for an earthquake in California. Policy deductibles primarily range from a $125,000 minimum to 5% per unit of insurance for most catastrophic events. A deductible indicates ELS’ maximum exposure, subject to policy limits and sub-limits, in the event of a loss.The Company’s Depositary Shares Which Represent Our 6.75% Series C Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Stock Have Not Been Rated. The Company has not sought to obtain a rating for its depositary shares (the “Depositary Shares”) which represent 8our 6.75% Series C Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Stock (the “Series C Preferred Stock”). No assurance can be given, however, that one or more rating agencies might not independently determine to issue such a rating or that such a rating, if issued, would not adversely affect the market price of the Depositary Shares. In addition, the Company may elect in the future to obtain a rating of its Depositary Shares, which could adversely affect the market price. A rating increase reflects only the views of the rating agency or agencies issuing the ratings and such ratings could be revised downward, placed on a watch list or withdrawn entirely at the discretion of the issuing rating agency if in its judgment circumstances so warrant. Any such downward revision, placing on a watch list or withdrawal of a rating could have an adverse effect on the market price of the Depositary Shares.Our Depositary Shares will be subordinate to our debt, and your interests could be diluted by the issuance of additional shares of preferred stock, and be materially and adversely affected by other transactions. Our Depositary Shares which represent our Series C Preferred Stock will be subordinate to all of our existing and future debt. As described below, our existing debt may restrict, and our future debt may include restrictions on, our ability to pay distributions to preferred stockholders or to make an optional redemption payment to preferred stockholders. The issuance of additional shares of preferred stock on parity with or senior to our Series C Preferred Stock represented by the Depositary Shares would dilute the interests of the holders of our Depositary Shares, and any issuance of preferred stock senior to our Series C Preferred Stock (and, therefore, the Depositary Shares) or of additional indebtedness could affect our ability to pay distributions on, redeem or pay the liquidation preference on our Depositary Shares. Other than the conversion rights afforded to holders of our preferred shares that may occur in connection with a change of control triggering event, none of the provisions relating to our preferred shares contains any provision affording the holders of our preferred shares protection in the event of a highly leveraged or other transaction, including a merger or the sale, lease or conveyance of all or substantially all our assets or business, that might materially and adversely affect the holders of our preferred shares, so long as the rights of the holders of our preferred shares are not materially and adversely affected.Our Depositary Shares which represent our Series C Preferred Stock will be structurally subordinated to the liabilities of our subsidiaries. Substantially all of our assets and debt are held indirectly through our Operating Partnership. As a result, we have no source of operating cash flow other than distributions from our Operating Partnership. Our ability to pay distributions to holders of our Depositary Shares depends on our Operating Partnership’s ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and then to make distributions to MHC Trust. Similarly, MHC Trust must satisfy its obligations to its creditors before making distributions to us. Thus, our Depositary Shares will be structurally subordinated to certain liabilities of our subsidiaries in the event of their liquidation, dissolution or winding up.Adverse changes in general economic conditions may adversely affect the Company’s business.The Company’s success is dependent upon economic conditions in the U.S. generally and in the geographic areas in which a substantial number of the Company’s Properties are located. Adverse changes in national economic conditions and in the economic conditions of the regions in which the Company conducts substantial business may have an adverse effect on the real estate values of the Company’s Properties, its financial performance and the market price of its common stock.In a recession or under other adverse economic conditions, non-earning assets and write-downs are likely to increase as debtors fail to meet their payment obligations. Although the Company maintains reserves for credit losses and an allowance for doubtful accounts in amounts that it believes should be sufficient to provide adequate protection against potential write-downs in its portfolio, these amounts could prove to be insufficient.Laws and Regulations Relating to Campground Membership Sales and Properties Could Adversely Affect the Value of Certain Properties and the Company’s Cash Flow. Many of the states in which the Company does business have laws regulating right-to-use or campground membership sales. These laws generally require comprehensive disclosure to prospective purchasers, and usually give purchasers the right to rescind their purchase between three to five days after the date of sale. Some states have laws requiring the Company to register with a state agency and obtain a permit to market. The Company is subject to changes, from time to time, in the application or interpretation of such laws that can affect its business or the rights of its members.In some states, including California, Oregon and Washington, laws place limitations on the ability of the owner of a campground property to close the property unless the customers at the property receive access to a comparable property. The impact of the rights of customers under these laws is uncertain and could adversely affect the availability or timing of sale opportunities or the ability of the Company to realize recoveries from Property sales.The government authorities regulating the Company's activities have broad discretionary power to enforce and interpret the statutes and regulations that they administer, including the power to enjoin or suspend sales activities, require or restrict construction of additional facilities and revoke licenses and permits relating to business activities. The Company monitors its sales and marketing programs and debt collection activities to control practices that might violate consumer protection laws and regulations or give rise to consumer complaints.9Certain consumer rights and defenses that vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction may affect the Company's portfolio of contracts receivable. Examples of such laws include state and federal consumer credit and truth-in-lending laws requiring the disclosure of finance charges, and usury and retail installment sales laws regulating permissible finance charges.In certain states, as a result of government regulations and provisions in certain of the right-to-use or campground membership agreements, the Company is prohibited from selling more than ten memberships per site. At the present time, these restrictions do not preclude the Company from selling memberships in any state. However, these restrictions may limit the Company's ability to utilize Properties for public usage and/or the Company's ability to convert sites to more profitable or predictable uses, such as annual rentals.Debt Financing, Financial Covenants and Degree of Leverage Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Economic Performance.Scheduled Debt Payments Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Financial Condition. The Company’s business is subject to risks normally associated with debt financing. The total principal amount of the Company’s outstanding indebtedness was approximately $2.3 billion as of December 31, 2012, of which approximately $753.1 million, or 33.2%, matures in 2014 and 2015. The Company’s substantial indebtedness and the cash flow associated with serving its indebtedness could have important consequences, including the risks that:•the Company’s cash flow could be insufficient to pay distributions at expected levels and meet required payments of principal and interest;•the Company might be required to use a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to pay its indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of its cash flow to fund the implementation of its business strategy, acquisitions, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes;•the Company’s debt service obligations could limit its flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the industry in which it operates;•the Company may not be able to refinance existing indebtedness (which in virtually all cases requires substantial principal payments at maturity) and, if it can, the terms of such refinancing might not be as favorable as the terms of existing indebtedness;•if principal payments due at maturity cannot be refinanced, extended or paid with proceeds of other capital transactions, such as new equity capital, the Company’s cash flow will not be sufficient in all years to repay all maturing debt; and•if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing (such as the possible reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate loans) result in higher interest rates, increased interest expense would adversely affect cash flow and the Company’s ability to service debt and make distributions to stockholders.Ability to obtain mortgage financing or to refinance maturing mortgages may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition. Lenders demands on borrowers as to the quality of the collateral and related cash flows may make it challenging to secure financing on attractive terms or at all. If terms are no longer attractive or if financing proceeds are no longer available for any reason, these factors may adversely affect cash flow and the Company’s ability to service debt and make distributions to stockholders.Financial Covenants Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Financial Condition. If a Property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness, and the Company is unable to meet mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose on the Property, resulting in loss of income and asset value. The mortgages on the Company’s Properties contain customary negative covenants, which among other things limit the Company’s ability, without the prior consent of the lender, to further mortgage the Property and to discontinue insurance coverage. In addition, the Company’s unsecured credit facilities contain certain customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on the Company’s ability to incur indebtedness, including total debt-to-assets ratios, debt service coverage ratios and minimum ratios of unencumbered assets to unsecured debt. Foreclosure on mortgaged Properties or an inability to refinance existing indebtedness would likely have a negative impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.The Company’s Degree of Leverage Could Limit Its Ability to Obtain Additional Financing. The Company’s debt-to-market-capitalization ratio (total debt as a percentage of total debt plus the market value of the outstanding common stock and Units held by parties other than the Company) was approximately 43% as of December 31, 2012. The degree of leverage could have important consequences to stockholders, including an adverse effect on the Company’s ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general corporate purposes, and makes the Company more vulnerable to a downturn in business or the economy generally.The Company may be able to incur substantially more debt, which would increase the risks associated with its substantial leverage. Despite the Company’s current indebtedness levels, it may still be able to incur substantially more debt in the future. If new debt is added to the Company’s current debt levels, an even greater portion of its cash flow will be needed to satisfy its debt service 10obligations. As a result, the related risks that we now face could intensify and increase the risk of a default on the Company’s indebtedness.The Company Depends on Its Subsidiaries’ Dividends and Distributions.Substantially all of the Company’s assets are owned indirectly by the Operating Partnership. As a result, the Company has no source of cash flow other than distributions from the Operating Partnership. For the Company to pay dividends to holders of its common stock and preferred stock, the Operating Partnership must first distribute the cash to MHC Trust, and then MHC Trust must distribute the cash to the Company. Before they can distribute the cash, the Operating Partnership and MHC Trust must first satisfy their obligations to their creditors (and their preferred stockholders in the case of common stock distributions).Stockholders’ Ability to Effect Changes of Control of the Company is Limited.Provisions of the Company’s Charter and Bylaws Could Inhibit Changes of Control. Certain provisions of the Company’s charter and bylaws may delay or prevent a change of control of the Company or other transactions that could provide its stockholders with a premium over the then-prevailing market price of their common stock or Series C Preferred Stock or which might otherwise be in the best interest of its stockholders. These include the Ownership Limit described below. Also, any future series of preferred stock may have certain voting provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be beneficial to the Company’s stockholders.Maryland Law Imposes Certain Limitations on Changes of Control. Certain provisions of Maryland law prohibit “business combinations” (including certain issuances of equity securities) with any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of outstanding common stock, or with an affiliate of the Company who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the outstanding voting stock (an “Interested Stockholder”), or with an affiliate of an Interested Stockholder. These prohibitions last for five years after the most recent date on which the Interested Stockholder became an Interested Stockholder. After the five-year period, a business combination with an Interested Stockholder must be approved by two super-majority stockholder votes unless, among other conditions, the Company’s common stockholders receive a minimum price for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the Interested Stockholder for its shares of common stock. The Board of Directors has exempted from these provisions under the Maryland law any business combination with Samuel Zell, who is the Chairman of the Board of the Company, certain holders of Units who received them at the time of the Company’s initial public offering, the General Motors Hourly Rate Employees Pension Trust and the General Motors Salaried Employees Pension Trust, and the Company’s officers who acquired common stock at the time the Company was formed and each and every affiliate of theirs.The Company Has a Stock Ownership Limit for REIT Tax Purposes. To remain qualified as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of the Company’s outstanding shares of capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the federal income tax laws applicable to REITs) at any time during the last half of any taxable year. To facilitate maintenance of the Company’s REIT qualification, the Company’s charter, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits Beneficial Ownership (as defined in the Company’s charter) by any single stockholder of more than 5% (in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the Company’s outstanding capital stock. The Company refers to this as the “Ownership Limit.” Within certain limits, the Company’s charter permits the Board of Directors to increase the Ownership Limit with respect to any class or series of stock. The Board of Directors, upon receipt of a ruling from the IRS, opinion of counsel, or other evidence satisfactory to the Board of Directors and upon 15 days prior written notice of a proposed transfer which, if consummated, would result in the transferee owning shares in excess of the Ownership Limit, and upon such other conditions as the Board of Directors may direct, may exempt a stockholder from the Ownership Limit. Absent any such exemption, capital stock acquired or held in violation of the Ownership Limit will be transferred by operation of law to the Company as trustee for the benefit of the person to whom such capital stock is ultimately transferred, and the stockholder’s rights to distributions and to vote would terminate. Such stockholder would be entitled to receive, from the proceeds of any subsequent sale of the capital stock transferred to the Company as trustee, the lesser of (i) the price paid for the capital stock or, if the owner did not pay for the capital stock (for example, in the case of a gift, devise on other such transaction), the market price of the capital stock on the date of the event causing the capital stock to be transferred to the Company as trustee or (ii) the amount realized from such sale. A transfer of capital stock may be void if it causes a person to violate the Ownership Limit. The Ownership Limit could delay or prevent a change in control of the Company and, therefore, could adversely affect its stockholders’ ability to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for their common stock or adversely affect the best interest of the Company’s stockholders.Conflicts of Interest Could Influence the Company’s Decisions.Certain Stockholders Could Exercise Influence in a Manner Inconsistent With the Stockholders’ Best Interests. As of December 31, 2012, Mr. Samuel Zell and certain affiliated holders beneficially owned approximately 8.7% of the Company’s outstanding common stock (in each case including common stock issuable upon the exercise of stock options and the exchange of Units). Mr. Zell is 11the chairman of the Company’s Board of Directors. Accordingly, Mr. Zell has significant influence on the Company’s management and operation. Such influence could be exercised in a manner that is inconsistent with the interests of other stockholders.Mr. Zell and His Affiliates Continue to be Involved in Other Investment Activities. Mr. Zell and his affiliates have a broad and varied range of investment interests, including interests in other real estate investment companies involved in other forms of housing, including multifamily housing. Mr. Zell and his affiliates may acquire interests in other companies. Mr. Zell may not be able to control whether any such company competes with the Company. Consequently, Mr. Zell’s continued involvement in other investment activities could result in competition to the Company as well as management decisions that might not reflect the interests of the Company’s stockholders.Risk of Eminent Domain and Tenant Litigation.The Company owns Properties in certain areas of the country where real estate values have increased faster than rental rates in its Properties either because of locally imposed rent control or long term leases. In such areas, the Company has learned that certain local government entities have investigated the possibility of seeking to take the Company’s Properties by eminent domain at values below the value of the underlying land. While no such eminent domain proceeding has been commenced, and the Company would exercise all of its rights in connection with any such proceeding, successful condemnation proceedings by municipalities could adversely affect its financial condition. Moreover, certain of its Properties located in California are subject to rent control ordinances, some of which not only severely restrict ongoing rent increases but also prohibit the Company from increasing rents upon turnover. Such regulations allow customers to sell their homes for a premium representing the value of the future discounted rent-controlled rents. As part of the Company’s effort to realize the value of its Properties subject to rent control, the Company has initiated lawsuits against several municipalities in California. In response to the Company’s efforts, tenant groups have filed lawsuits against the Company seeking not only to limit rent increases, but to be awarded large damage awards. If the Company is unsuccessful in its efforts to challenge rent control ordinances, it is likely that the Company will not be able to charge rents that reflect the intrinsic value of the affected Properties. Finally, tenant groups in non-rent controlled markets have also attempted to use litigation as a means of protecting themselves from rent increases reflecting the rental value of the affected Properties. An unfavorable outcome in the tenant group lawsuits could have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition.Environmental and Utility-Related Problems Are Possible and Can be Costly.Federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment may require a current or previous owner or operator of real property to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at such property. The owner or operator may have to pay a governmental entity or third parties for property damage and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by such parties in connection with the contamination. Such laws typically impose clean-up responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. Even if more than one person may have been responsible for the contamination, each person covered by the environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs incurred. In addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from that site.Environmental laws also govern the presence, maintenance and removal of asbestos. Such laws require that owners or operators of property containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, that they notify and train those who may come into contact with asbestos and that they undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, if asbestos would be disturbed during renovation or demolition of a building. Such laws may impose fines and penalties on real property owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos fibers.Utility-related laws and regulations also govern the provision of utility services and operations of water and wastewater treatment facilities. Such laws regulate, for example, how and to what extent owners or operators of property can charge renters for provision of, for example, electricity, and whether and to what extent such utility services can be charged separately from the base rent. Such laws also regulate the operations and performance of water treatment facilities and wastewater treatment facilities. Such laws may impose fines and penalties on real property owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements.The Company has a Significant Concentration of Properties in Florida and California, and Natural Disasters or Other Catastrophic Events in These or Other States Could Adversely Affect the Value of Its Properties and the Its Cash Flow.As of December 31, 2012, the Company owned or had an ownership interest in 383 Properties located in 32 states and British Columbia, including 119 Properties located in Florida and 49 Properties located in California. The occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event in any of these areas may cause a sudden decrease in the value of the Company’s Properties. While the Company has obtained insurance policies providing certain coverage against damage from fire, flood, property damage, earthquake, wind storm and business interruption, these insurance policies contain coverage limits, limits on covered property and various deductible amounts that the Company must pay before insurance proceeds are available. Such insurance may therefore be 12insufficient to restore the Company’s economic position with respect to damage or destruction to its Properties caused by such occurrences. Moreover, each of these coverages must be renewed every year and there is the possibility that all or some of the coverages may not be available at a reasonable cost. In addition, in the event of such a natural disaster or other catastrophic event, the process of obtaining reimbursement for covered losses, including the lag between expenditures incurred by the Company and reimbursements received from the insurance providers, could adversely affect the Company’s economic performance.Market Interest Rates May Have an Effect on the Value of the Company’s Common Stock.One of the factors that investors consider important in deciding whether to buy or sell shares of a REIT is the distribution rates with respect to such shares (as a percentage of the price of such shares) relative to market interest rates. If market interest rates go up, prospective purchasers of REIT shares may expect a higher distribution rate. Higher interest rates would not, however, result in more funds for the Company to distribute and, in fact, would likely increase its borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. Thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of the Company’s publicly traded securities to go down.The Company Is Dependent on External Sources of Capital.To qualify as a REIT, the Company must distribute to its stockholders each year at least 90% of its REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding any net capital gain). In addition, the Company intends to distribute all or substantially all of its net income so that it will generally not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on its earnings. Because of these distribution requirements, it is not likely that the Company will be able to fund all future capital needs, including for acquisitions, from income from operations. The Company therefore will have to rely on third-party sources of debt and equity capital financing, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. The Company’s access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of things, including conditions in the capital markets generally and the market’s perception of its growth potential and its current and potential future earnings. It may be difficult for the Company to meet one or more of the requirements for qualification as a REIT, including but not limited to its distribution requirement. Moreover, additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of stockholders’ interests, and additional debt financing may substantially increase the Company’s leverage.We Face Possible Risks Associated with the Physical Effects of Climate Change.We cannot predict with certainty whether climate change is occurring and, if so, at what rate. However, the physical effects of climate change could have a material adverse effect on our properties, operations and business. For example, many of our properties are located in the southeast and southwest regions of the United States, particularly in Florida, California and Arizona. To the extent climate change causes changes in weather patterns, our markets could experience increases in storm intensity and rising sea-levels. Over time, these conditions could result in declining demand for space in our Properties or our inability to operate them. Climate change may also have indirect effects on our business by increasing the cost of (or making unavailable) property insurance on terms we find acceptable, increasing the cost of energy and increasing the cost of snow removal or related costs at our properties. Proposed legislation to address climate change could increase utility and other costs of operating our properties which, if not offset by rising rental income, would reduce our net income. There can be no assurance that climate change will not have a material adverse effect on our properties, operations or business.Americans with Disabilities Act Compliance Could be Costly. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (“ADA”), all public accommodations and commercial facilities must meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Compliance with the ADA requirements could involve removal of structural barriers to access or use by disabled persons. Other federal, state and local laws may require modifications to or restrict further renovations of our properties with respect to such accesses. Although we believe that our properties are substantially in compliance with present requirements, noncompliance with the ADA or related laws or regulations could result in the United States government imposing fines or private litigants being awarded damages against us. Such costs may adversely affect our ability to make distributions or payments to our investors.Affordable Care Act Compliance Could be Costly. President Obama signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act into law in 2010, which was amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the “Affordable Care Act”). The Affordable Care Act is designed to expand access to affordable health insurance, among other objectives. Many aspects of the Affordable Care Act are being implemented through new regulations and regulatory guidance, which are continuing to be issued. While we cannot accurately predict at this time the full effect of the Affordable Care Act on our business, compliance may adversely impact our labor costs, our ability to negotiate favorable terms under our benefits plans for our employees, our ability to attract or retain employees or 13our operations to the extent that compliance may affect the composition of our workforce, any or all of which could be costly. Such costs may adversely affect our ability to make distributions or payments to our investors.The Company’s Qualification as a REIT is Dependent on Compliance With U.S. Federal Income Tax Requirements.The Company believes it has been organized and operated in a manner so as to qualify for taxation as a REIT, and it intends to continue to operate so as to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Qualification as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, however, is governed by highly technical and complex provisions of the Code for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations. In connection with certain transactions, the Company has received, and relied upon, advice of counsel as to the impact of such transactions on its qualification as a REIT. The Company’s qualification as a REIT requires analysis of various facts and circumstances that may not be entirely within its control, and it cannot provide any assurance that the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) will agree with its analysis or the analysis of its tax counsel. In particular, the proper federal income tax treatment of right-to-use membership contracts is uncertain and there is no assurance that the IRS will agree with the Company’s treatment of such contracts. If the IRS were to disagree with the Company’s analysis or its tax counsel’s analysis of various facts and circumstances, the Company’s ability to qualify as a REIT could be adversely affected. Such matters could affect the Company’s qualification as a REIT. In addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions might significantly change the tax laws with respect to the requirements for qualification as a REIT or the U.S. federal income tax consequences of qualification as a REIT.If, with respect to any taxable year, the Company failed to maintain the Company’s qualification as a REIT (and if specified relief provisions under the Code were not applicable to such disqualification), it could not deduct distributions to stockholders in computing its net taxable income and it would be subject to U.S. federal income tax on its net taxable income at regular corporate rates. Any U.S. federal income tax payable could include applicable alternative minimum tax. If the Company had to pay U.S. federal income tax, the amount of money available to distribute to stockholders and pay indebtedness would be reduced for the year or years involved, and the Company would no longer be required to distribute money to stockholders. In addition, the Company would also be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost, unless it was entitled to relief under the relevant statutory provisions. Although the Company currently intends to operate in a manner designed to allow the Company to qualify as a REIT, future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause it to revoke the REIT election.Interpretation of and Changes to Accounting Policies and Standards Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Reported Financial Results.The Company’s Accounting Policies and Methods Are the Basis on Which It Reports Its Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and They May Require Management to Make Estimates About Matters that Are Inherently Uncertain. The Company’s accounting policies and methods are fundamental to the manner in which it records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. Management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods in order to ensure that they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment as to the most appropriate manner in which to record and report the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in reporting materially different amounts than would have been reported under a different alternative.Changes in Accounting Standards Could Adversely Affect The Company’s Reported Financial Results. The bodies that set accounting standards for public companies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), the SEC and others, periodically change or revise existing interpretations of the accounting and reporting standards that govern the way that the Company reports its financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact the Company’s reported financial results. In some cases, the Company could be required to apply a new or revised accounting standard, or a revised interpretation of an accounting standard, retroactively, which could have a negative impact on reported results or result in the restatement of the Company’s financial statements for prior periods.The Company’s Accounting Policies for Entering Right-To-Use Contracts Will Result in a Substantial Deferral of Revenue in its Financial Results. Beginning August 14, 2008, the Company began entering right-to-use contracts. Customers who enter upgraded right-to-use contracts are generally required to make an upfront nonrefundable payment to the Company. The Company incurs significant selling and marketing expenses to originate the right-to-use contracts, and the majority of expenses must be expensed in the period incurred, while the related revenues and commissions are generally deferred and recognized over the expected life of the contract, which is estimated based upon historical attrition rates. The expected life of a right-to-use contract is currently estimated to be between one and 31 years. As a result, the Company may incur a loss from entering right-to-use contracts, build up a substantial deferred revenue liability balance, and recognize substantial non-cash revenue in the years subsequent to originally entering the contracts. This accounting may make it difficult for investors to interpret the financial results from the entry of right-14to-use contracts. In 2008, the Company submitted to the Office of the Chief Accountant at the SEC correspondence describing the right-to-use contracts, and subsequently discussed with the SEC the revenue recognition policy with respect to the contracts. The SEC does not object to the Company’s application of the Codification Topic “Revenue Recognition” (“FASB ASC 605”) with respect to the deferral of the upfront nonrefundable payments received from the entry of right-to-use contracts. (See Note 2(n) in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Form 10-K for the Company’s revenue recognition policy.)Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone. 15