Item 1A. Risk Factors Described below are various risks and uncertainties that may affect our business. If any of the risks described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our business may be adversely affected by the global economic downturn, the continuing uncertainties in the financial markets and our, or our customers’ or suppliers’ ability to access the capital markets. The global economy is currently in a pronounced economic downturn. Global financial markets are continuing to experience disruptions, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates, and uncertainty about economic stability. Given these uncertainties, there is no assurance that there will not be further deterioration in the global economy, the global financial markets and consumer confidence. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current global economic downturn or disruptions in the financial markets. If economic conditions deteriorate further, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our business and results of operations could also be impacted by a number of follow-on effects of the disruptions in the financial markets, including the inability of our customers, or their customers, to obtain sufficient financing to purchase historical or projected quantities of our products. Our revenues and gross margins are dependent upon customer demand, and if our projections of their expenditures fail to materialize, due to reductions in customer purchases or otherwise, our revenues and gross margins could be adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents Additionally, the inability of our customers and suppliers to access capital efficiently, or at all, may have other adverse effects on our financial condition. For example, financial difficulties experienced by our customers or suppliers could result in product delays; increase accounts receivable defaults; and increase our inventory exposure. These risks may increase if our customers and suppliers do not adequately manage their business or do not properly disclose their financial condition to us. Although we believe we have adequate liquidity and capital resources to fund our operations internally, in light of current market conditions, our inability to access the capital markets on favorable terms, or at all, may adversely affect our financial performance. The inability to obtain adequate financing from debt or capital sources could force us to self-fund strategic initiatives or even forgo certain opportunities, which in turn could potentially harm our performance. Our results of operations, financial condition and business could be harmed if we were unable to balance customer demand and capacity. As customer demand for our products changes, we must be able to ramp up or adjust our production capacity to meet demand. We are continually taking steps to address our manufacturing capacity needs for our products. If we are not able to increase our capacity or if we increase our capacity too quickly, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted. If we experience delays or unforeseen costs associated with adjusting our capacity levels, we may not be able to achieve our financial targets. Conversely, due to the proportionately high fixed cost nature of our business, when demand decreases, we may not be able to reduce manufacturing expenses or overhead costs at the same rate as demand, which could result in lower margins and adversely impact our business results. If we fail to evaluate, implement and integrate strategic opportunities successfully, our business may suffer. From time to time we evaluate strategic opportunities available to us for product, technology or business acquisitions. For example, in July 2006 we acquired INTRINSIC, in March 2007 we acquired COTCO, and in February 2008 we acquired LLF. If we choose to make acquisitions, we face certain risks, such as failure of the acquired business to meet our performance expectations, diversion of management attention, retention of existing customers of our current and acquired businesses, and difficulty in integrating the acquired business’s operations, personnel and financial and operating systems into our current business. For example, through our acquisitions of COTCO and LLF we acquired certain customer relationships, some of which were considered related persons (see Note 16, “Related Party Transactions,” in our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report), that we may not be able to successfully retain. We may not be able to adequately address these risks or any other problems that arise from our recent or future acquisitions. Any failure to successfully evaluate strategic opportunities and address risks or other problems that arise related to any acquisition could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. We face significant challenges managing our growth. We have experienced a period of significant growth over the past few years that may challenge our management and other resources. We continue to transform our business to support a global components and LED lighting product customer base. In order to manage our growth and change in our strategy effectively, we must continue to: • maintain adequate manufacturing facilities and equipment to meet customer demand; • maintain a sufficient supply of raw materials to support our growth; • expand research and development, sales and marketing, technical support, distribution capabilities and administrative functions; 11 Table of Contents • expand the skills and capabilities of our current management team; • add experienced senior level managers; and • attract and retain qualified employees. While we intend to focus on managing our costs and expenses during the extremely challenging economic environment, over the long term we expect to invest substantially to support our growth and may have additional unexpected costs. We may not be able to expand quickly enough to exploit potential market opportunities. We are also increasingly dependent on information technology to enable us to improve the effectiveness of our operations and to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency. In fiscal 2009, we substantially completed the implementation of our primary financial reporting system at the operations assumed through the LLF and COTCO acquisitions. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build, implement and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, loss of customers, business disruptions or loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. In connection with our efforts to cost-effectively manage our growth, we have increasingly relied on subcontractors for production capacity, logistics support and certain administrative functions, such as payroll processing. If these service providers do not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and may incur additional costs to correct errors or fulfill customer demand. Depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, or impact employee morale. Our operations may also be negatively impacted if any of these service providers do not have the financial capability to withstand the continuing financial downturn. If we are unable to effectively develop, manage and expand our distribution channels for our products, our operating results may suffer. We have expanded into new business channels that are different from those that we have historically operated in as we grow our business and sell LED lighting products and more LED components versus LED chips. If we are unable to effectively penetrate these new distribution channels to ensure our products are reaching the appropriate customer base, our financial results may be adversely impacted. In addition, if we successfully penetrate these new distribution channels, we cannot guarantee that customers will accept our products or that we will be able to manufacture and deliver them in the timeline established by our customers. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and have evolving technical requirements. The markets for our products are highly competitive. In the LED market, we compete with companies that manufacture or sell nitride-based LED chips as well as those that sell LED components. Competitors are offering new blue, green and white LEDs with aggressive prices and improved performance. These competitors may reduce average sales prices faster than we are able to reduce costs, and competitive pricing pressures may accelerate the rate of decline of our average sales prices. The market for SiC wafers is also becoming more competitive as other firms in recent years have begun offering SiC and GaN products or announced plans to do so. As competition increases, in order to achieve our revenue growth objectives in fiscal 2010 and beyond, we need to continue to develop new products that enable our customers to win new designs and increase market share. Additionally, we anticipate that increased competition for these designs will result in pressure to lower the selling prices of our products. Therefore, our ability to continually produce more efficient, higher brightness LEDs that meet the evolving needs of our customers at lower costs will be critical to our success. Competitors may also try to align with some of our strategic customers. This could mean lower prices for our products, 12 Table of Contents reduced demand for our products and a corresponding reduction in our ability to recover development, engineering and manufacturing costs. Competitors could also invent new technologies that may make our products obsolete. Any of these developments could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our LED revenues are highly dependent on our customers’ ability to produce and sell more integrated products using our LED products. Because our customers generally integrate our LED products into the products that they market and sell, our LED revenues depend on getting our LED products designed into a larger number of our customers’ products and our customers’ ability to sell those products. For example, some of our current customers, as well as prospective customers, create white LED components using our blue LEDs, in combination with phosphors. Sales of blue LED chips are highly dependent upon our customers’ ability to procure efficient phosphors, develop high quality and highly efficient white LED components and gain access to the necessary intellectual property rights. Even if our customers are able to develop competitive white LED components using our blue LED chips, there can be no assurance that our customers will be successful in the marketplace. We also have current and prospective customers that create lighting systems using our LED components. Sales of LED components for these applications are highly dependent upon our customers’ ability to develop high quality and highly efficient lighting products, including thermal design, optical design and power conversion. The lighting industry has traditionally not had this level of technical expertise for LED related designs, which may limit the success of our customers’ products. Even if our customers are able to develop efficient systems, there can be no assurance that our customers will be successful in the marketplace. As a result of our continued expansion in new markets, such as LED components and LED lighting products, our traditional customers may reduce orders. Through acquisitions and organic growth, we continue to expand in new markets, such as LED components and LED lighting products. In these new markets, some of our current customers may now perceive us as a competitor. In response, our customers may reduce their orders for our products. This reduction in orders could occur faster than our sales growth in these new markets, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our operating results are substantially dependent on the development and acceptance of new products. Our future success may depend on our ability to develop new and lower cost solutions for existing and new markets and for customers to accept those solutions. We must introduce new products in a timely and cost-effective manner, and we must secure production orders for those products from our customers. The development of new products is a highly complex process, and we historically have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products. The successful development and introduction of these products depends on a number of factors, including the following: • achievement of technology breakthroughs required to make commercially viable devices; • the accuracy of our predictions for market requirements and evolving standards; • acceptance of our new product designs; • acceptance of new technology in certain markets; • the availability of qualified research and development personnel; • our timely completion of product designs and development; • our ability to expand sales and influence key customers to adopt our products; • our ability to develop repeatable processes to manufacture new products in sufficient quantities and at low enough costs for commercial sales; 13 Table of Contents • our ability to effectively transfer products and technology developed in one country to our manufacturing facilities in other countries; • our customers’ ability to develop competitive products incorporating our products; and • acceptance of our customers’ products by the market. If any of these or other factors becomes problematic, we may not be able to develop and introduce these new products in a timely or cost-effective manner. Litigation could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We are often involved in patent infringement litigation as described in Note 13, “Commitments and Contingencies,” in our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report. Defending against existing and potential litigation will likely require significant attention and resources and, regardless of the outcome, result in significant legal expenses, which could adversely affect our results unless covered by insurance or recovered from third parties. If our defenses are ultimately unsuccessful, or if we are unable to achieve a favorable resolution, we could be liable for damage awards that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Where necessary, we may initiate litigation to enforce our patent or other intellectual property rights. Any such litigation may require us to spend a substantial amount of time and money and could distract management from our day-to-day operations. Moreover, there is no assurance that we will be successful in any such litigation. Our business may be impaired by claims that we, or our customers, infringe intellectual property rights of others. Vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights characterize our industry. These traits have resulted in significant and often protracted and expensive litigation. Litigation to determine the validity of patents or claims by third parties of infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights could result in significant legal expense and divert the efforts of our technical personnel and management, even if the litigation results in a determination favorable to us. In the event of an adverse result in such litigation, we could be required to: • pay substantial damages; • indemnify our customers; • stop the manufacture, use and sale of products found to be infringing; • incur asset impairment charges; • discontinue the use of processes found to be infringing; • expend significant resources to develop non-infringing products and processes; and/or • obtain a license to use third party technology. There can be no assurance that third parties will not attempt to assert infringement claims against us, or our customers, with respect to our products. In addition, our customers may face infringement claims directed to the customer’s products that incorporate our products, and an adverse result could impair the customer’s demand for our products. We have also promised certain of our customers that we will indemnify them in the event they are sued by our competitors for infringement claims directed to the products we supply. Under these indemnification obligations we may be responsible for future payments to resolve infringement claims against them. From time to time we receive correspondence asserting that our products or processes are or may be infringing patents or other intellectual property rights of others. If we believe the assertions may have merit or in other appropriate circumstances, we take appropriate steps to seek to obtain a license or to avoid the infringement. However, we cannot predict whether a license will be available; that we would find the terms of any license offered acceptable; 14 Table of Contents or that we would be able to develop an alternative solution. Failure to obtain a necessary license or develop an alternative solution could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and costs and to suspend the manufacture of affected products. There are limitations on our ability to protect our intellectual property. Our intellectual property position is based in part on patents owned by us and patents exclusively licensed to us. We intend to continue to file patent applications in the future, where appropriate, and to pursue such applications with U.S. and foreign patent authorities. However, our existing patents are subject to expiration and we cannot be sure that additional patents will be issued on any new applications around the covered technology or that our existing or future patents will not be successfully contested by third parties. Also, since issuance of a valid patent does not prevent other companies from using alternative, non-infringing technology, we cannot be sure that any of our patents, or patents issued to others and licensed to us, will provide significant commercial protection, especially as new competitors enter the market. In addition to patent protection, we also rely on trade secrets and other non-patented proprietary information relating to our product development and manufacturing activities. We try to protect this information through appropriate efforts to maintain its secrecy, including requiring employees and third parties to sign confidentiality agreements. We cannot be sure that these efforts will be successful or that the confidentiality agreements will not be breached. We also cannot be sure that we would have adequate remedies for any breach of such agreements or other misappropriation of our trade secrets, or that our trade secrets and proprietary know-how will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by others. If our products fail to perform or fail to meet customer requirements or expectations, we could incur significant additional costs, including costs associated with the recall of those items. The manufacture of our products involves highly complex processes. Our customers specify quality, performance and reliability standards that we must meet. If our products do not meet these standards, we may be required to replace or rework the products. In some cases, our products may contain undetected defects or flaws that only become evident after shipment. Even if our products meet standard specifications, our customers may attempt to use our products in applications they were not designed for or in products that were not designed or manufactured properly, resulting in product failures and creating customer satisfaction issues. We have experienced product quality, performance or reliability problems from time to time and defects or failures may occur in the future. If failures or defects occur, we may need to recall our products. These recalls could result in significant losses due to: • costs associated with the removal, collection and destruction of the product recalled; • payments made to replace recalled product; • a rise in warranty expense and costs associated with customer support; • the write down or destruction of existing inventory subject to the recall; • lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time; • delays, cancellations or rescheduling of orders for our products; or • increased product returns. We also may be the target of product liability lawsuits, and could suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against us if the use of our products at issue is determined to have caused injury. A significant product recall or product liability case could also result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation, and a loss of customer confidence in our products. 15 Table of Contents Our operations in foreign countries, including China and other Asian countries, expose us to certain risks inherent in doing business internationally, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. As a result of acquisitions and organic growth, we have operations, manufacturing facilities and subcontract arrangements in foreign countries that expose us to certain risks. For example, fluctuations in exchange rates may affect our revenues, expenses and results of operations as well as the value of our assets and liabilities as reflected in our financial statements. We are also subject to other types of risks, including the following: • protection of intellectual property and trade secrets; • tariffs and other barriers; • timing and availability of export licenses; • rising labor costs; • disruptions in the infrastructure of the foreign countries where we operate; • difficulties in accounts receivable collections; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • the burden of complying with foreign and international laws and treaties; and • the burden of complying with and changes in international taxation policies. In some instances, we have been provided and may continue to receive competing incentives from foreign governments to encourage our investment in certain countries, regions, or areas outside of the United States. In particular, we have received and may continue to receive such incentives in connection with our operations in China, as the Chinese national and local governments seek to encourage the development of the technology industry in China. Government incentives may include tax rebates, reduced tax rates, favorable lending policies and other measures, some or all of which may be available to us due to our foreign operations. Any of these incentives could be reduced or eliminated by governmental authorities at any time. Any reduction or elimination of incentives currently provided to our operations could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, abrupt political change, terrorist activity and armed conflict pose a risk of general economic disruption in affected countries, which could result in an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are subject to risks related to international purchases and sales. We expect that revenue from international sales will continue to represent the majority of our total revenue. We also purchase a portion of the materials included in our products from overseas sources. As a result, our international sales and purchases are subject to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including, without limitation, tariffs, trade barriers, regulations relating to import-export control, technology transfer restrictions, the International Traffic in Arms Regulation promulgated under the Arms Export Control Act, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the anti-boycott provisions of the U.S. Export Administration Act. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be liable for administrative, civil or criminal liabilities, and in the extreme case, we could be suspended or debarred from government contracts or our export privileges could be suspended, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. International sales and purchases are also subject to a variety of other risks, including risks arising from currency fluctuations, collection issues and taxes. Our international sales are subject to variability as our selling prices become less competitive in countries with currencies that are declining in value against the U.S. Dollar and more competitive in countries with currencies that are increasing in value against the U.S. Dollar. In addition, our international purchases can become more expensive if the U.S. Dollar weakens against the foreign currencies in which we are billed. 16 Table of Contents We have not entered into any foreign currency derivative financial instruments; however, we may choose to do so in the future in an effort to manage or hedge our foreign exchange rate risk. Variations in our production yields and limitations in the amount of process improvements we can implement could impact our ability to reduce costs and could cause our margins to decline and our operating results could suffer. All of our products are manufactured using technologies that are highly complex. The number of usable items, or yield, from our production processes may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including but not limited to the following: • variability in our process repeatability and control; • contamination of the manufacturing environment; • equipment failure, power outages or variations in the manufacturing process; • lack of consistency and adequate quality and quantity of piece parts and other raw materials; • losses from broken wafers, inventory shrinkage or human errors; • defects in packaging either within our facilities or at our subcontractors; and • any transitions or changes in our production process, planned or unplanned. In the past, we have experienced difficulties in achieving acceptable yields on new products, which has adversely affected our operating results. We may experience similar problems in the future, and we cannot predict when they may occur or their severity. In addition, our ability to convert volume manufacturing to larger diameter substrates can be an important factor in allowing for a more cost effective manufacturing process. If we are unable to make this transition in a timely or cost effective manner, our results could be negatively impacted. In some instances, we may offer products for future delivery at prices based on planned yield improvements or increased cost efficiencies from other production advances. Failure to achieve these planned improvements or advances could significantly affect our margins and operating results. We depend on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues, and the loss of, or a significant reduction in purchases by, one or more of these customers could adversely affect our operating results. We receive a significant amount of our revenues from a limited number of customers. For example, in fiscal 2009, two customers, Seoul Semiconductor Co., Ltd and Arrow Electronics, Inc. individually accounted for more than 10% of our net revenue, for a combined total of 24% of our total net revenue. Sales to these and most of our other large customers are made on a purchase order basis, which does not generally require any long-term customer commitments. Therefore, these customers may alter their past purchasing behavior with little or no notice to us for various reasons, including: developing their own product solutions; choosing to purchase product from our competitors; or experiencing a reduction in their market share in the markets for which they purchase our products. If our customers alter their past (or expected) purchasing behavior, or if we encounter any problems collecting amounts due from them, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted. We rely on a few key sole source and limited source suppliers, and are subject to high price volatility on certain commodity inputs. We depend on a small number of sole source and limited source suppliers for certain raw materials, components, services and equipment used in manufacturing our products, including key materials and equipment 17 Table of Contents used in critical stages of our manufacturing processes. Although alternative sources generally exist for these items, qualification of many of these alternative sources could take up to six months or longer. Where possible, we attempt to identify and qualify alternative sources for our sole and limited source suppliers. We generally purchase these sole or limited source items with purchase orders, and we have limited guaranteed supply arrangements with such suppliers. We do not control the time and resources that these suppliers devote to our business, and we cannot be sure that these suppliers will perform their obligations to us. In the past, we have experienced decreases in our production yields when suppliers have varied from previously agreed upon specifications that have impacted our cost of sales. Additionally, the inability of our suppliers to access capital efficiently could cause disruptions in their businesses, thereby negatively impacting ours. This risk may increase if the general economic downturn negatively affects key suppliers or a significant number of our other suppliers. Any delay in product delivery or other interruption or variation in supply from these suppliers could prevent us from meeting commercial demand for our products. If we were to lose key suppliers, our key suppliers were unable to support our demand or we were unable to identify and qualify alternative suppliers, our manufacturing operations could be interrupted or hampered significantly. In our fabrication process we consume a number of precious metals and other commodities, which are subject to high price volatility. Our operating margins could be significantly affected if we are not able to anticipate price changes correctly, or if we are not able to pass along price increases to our customers. If government agencies discontinue or curtail their funding for our research and development programs, our business may suffer. Changes in federal budget priorities could adversely affect our contract revenue. Historically, government agencies have funded a significant portion of our research and development activities. When the government changes budget priorities, such as in times of war or financial crisis, our funding has the risk of being redirected to other programs. Government contracts are also subject to the risk that the government agency may not appropriate and allocate all funding contemplated by the contract. In addition, our government contracts generally permit the contracting authority to terminate the contracts for the convenience of the government. The full value of the contracts would not be realized if they were prematurely terminated. Furthermore, we may be unable to incur sufficient allowable costs to generate the full estimated contract values and there is some risk that any technologies developed under these contracts may not have commercial value. If government funding is discontinued or reduced, our ability to develop or enhance products could be limited, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations worldwide could harm our business and results of operations. The manufacturing, assembling and testing of our products require the use of hazardous materials that are subject to a broad array of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. Our failure to comply with any of these applicable laws or regulations could result in: • regulatory penalties, fines and legal liabilities; • suspension of production; • alteration of our fabrication, assembly and test processes; and • curtailment of our operations or sales. In addition, our failure to manage the use, transportation, emission, discharge, storage, recycling or disposal of hazardous materials could subject us to increased costs or future liabilities. Existing and future environmental laws and regulations could also require us to acquire pollution abatement or remediation equipment, modify our 18 Table of Contents product designs or incur other expenses associated with such laws and regulations. Many new materials that we are evaluating for use in our operations may be subject to regulation under existing or future environmental laws and regulations that may restrict our use of one or more of such materials in our manufacturing, assembly and test processes or products. Any of these restrictions could harm our business and results of operations by increasing our expenses or requiring us to alter our manufacturing processes. Changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our future effective tax rates may be adversely affected by a number of factors including: • changes in government administrations, such as the Presidency and Congress of the U.S. as well as in the states and countries in which we operate; • changes in tax laws or interpretation of such tax laws and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; • the jurisdiction in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; • the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various authorities; • changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; • adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; • increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; • changes in available tax credits; • the recognition and measurement of uncertain tax positions; • the lack of sufficient excess tax benefits (credits) in our additional paid in capital (“APIC”) pool in situations where our realized tax deductions for certain stock-based compensation awards (such as non-qualified stock options and restricted stock) are less than those originally anticipated; and • the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes, or any changes in legislation that may result in these earnings being taxed within the U.S., regardless of our decision regarding repatriation of funds. For example, current proposals have been made by various U.S. governmental bodies to change the U.S. tax laws that include, among other things, limiting U.S. tax deductions for expenses related to un-repatriated foreign-source income and modifying the U.S. foreign tax credit rules. Although the scope of the proposed changes is unclear, it is possible that these or other changes in U.S. tax laws could increase our U.S. income tax liability and adversely affect our profitability. At this time, we cannot determine the timing that the proposed changes, if enacted, are to become effective. Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact net income for future periods. In addition, the determination of our income tax provision requires complex estimations, significant judgments and significant knowledge and experience concerning the applicable tax laws. To the extent our income tax liability materially differs from our income tax provisions and accruals due to factors, including the above, which were not anticipated at the time we estimated our tax provision, our net income or cash flows could be adversely affected. In order to compete, we must attract, motivate and retain key employees, and our failure to do so could harm our results of operations. In order to compete, we must attract, motivate and retain executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, sales, marketing and support positions. Hiring and retaining qualified executives, 19 Table of Contents scientists, engineers, technical staff and sales personnel are critical to our business, and competition for experienced employees in our industry can be intense. To help attract, motivate and retain key employees, we use stock-based compensation awards such as non-qualified stock options and restricted stock. If the value of such stock awards does not appreciate, as measured by the performance of the price of our common stock, or if our share-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, our ability to attract, retain and motivate employees could be weakened, which could harm our business and results of operations. We are exposed to fluctuations in the market value of our investment portfolio and in interest rates, and therefore, impairment of our investments or lower investment income could harm our earnings. We are exposed to market value and the inherent interest rate risk related to our investment portfolio. We have historically invested portions of our available cash in fixed interest rate securities such as high-grade corporate debt, commercial paper, government securities and other fixed interest rate investments. The primary objective of our investments is to preserve principal and we only acquire investments rated “AAA”. However, our investments are not all FDIC insured and may lose value and/or become illiquid regardless of their rating; in addition, declines in underlying interest rates will have a negative impact on the income generated from our investments, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired. We are required under generally accepted accounting principles to review our amortizable intangible assets and investments in equity interests for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our amortizable intangible assets or goodwill may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization and slower growth rates in our industry. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our consolidated financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our amortizable intangible assets or goodwill is determined to exist. This could adversely impact our results of operations. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business. A disruption or failure of our systems or operations in the event of a natural disaster or man-made catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, continuing production or performing other critical functions of our business, especially in the case of our single site for SiC wafer and LED fabrication. A catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption to our supply chain or any of our critical business or information technology systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies, including changes in the accounting regulations to be applied. The methods, estimates and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in our Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Item 7 of this Annual Report). Such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. Likewise, our results of operations may be impacted due to changes in the accounting rules to be applied, such as the increased use of fair value measurement rules and the potential requirement that U.S. registrants prepare financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards. 20 Table of Contents Our stock price may be volatile. Historically, our common stock has experienced substantial price volatility, particularly as a result of significant fluctuations in our revenue, earnings and margins over the past few years and variations between our actual financial results and the published expectations of analysts. If our future operating results or margins are below the expectations of stock market analysts or our investors, our stock price will likely decline. Speculation in the press or investment community about our strategic position, financial condition, results of operations, or significant transactions can also cause changes in our stock price. In particular, speculation around our market opportunities for energy efficient lighting may have dramatic effects on our stock price, especially as various government agencies announce their planned investments in energy efficient technology, including lighting. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 