ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSWe face risks and uncertainties in connection with the bankruptcy proceedings of Afinsa, formerly our majority shareholder.In May 2011, Commercial Court No. 6 (Mercantile Court) in Madrid, Spain issued an order approving the liquidation of a portion of the assets owned by Afinsa. Until September 25, 2012, Afinsa, directly and through its wholly-owned subsidiary Auctentia, S.L. ("Auctentia"), owned approximately 57% of our outstanding common stock and 20% of the equity in Spectrum PMI, through which we own A-Mark. Afinsa has been in insolvency proceedings in Spain since July 2006. Since September 2012, Afinsa and Auctentia have owned 9.9% of our outstanding common stock, and none of the equity in Spectrum PMI. 9Table of Contents We and Auctentia are parties to a registration rights agreement pursuant to which Auctentia may request that substantially all of the shares of our common stock beneficially owned by it be registered by us at our expense. Unless and until such a registration statement is declared effective, Auctentia would likely not be able to sell the shares publicly, and would have to dispose of those shares in one or more private transactions. If and when the shares are registered, then they would be freely tradable immediately after any registration. Sales of such shares in the public markets in one or more “block” transactions could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. The Company has agreed to use its reasonable commercial efforts to assist Afinsa and Auctentia following the closing to sell the shares of common stock retained by them in an orderly manner that will be non-disruptive to the public market for the common stock and that is intended to facilitate the sale of the retained shares at prices acceptable to Afinsa and Auctentia.We face potential liabilities as a result of ongoing proceedings against certain of the Company's former officers and directors. As more fully described below under “Legal Proceedings - Spanish Criminal Investigation,” Mr. Manning, along with other former officers and directors of the Company and Central de Compras Coleccionables (“CdC”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, are the subject of a criminal proceedings in Spain arising out of the Company's transactions with Afinsa. The Company understands that under Spanish law, if any of the former officers or directors of SGI or its subsidiary are ultimately found guilty, then, under the principle of secondary civil liability, SGI could be held liable for certain associated penalties. In July 2013, the Spanish judicial authorities determined to bring formal charges of indictment against certain persons formerly associated with Afinsa and SGI, including Mr. Manning. These charges include a civil demand for substantial monetary damages. On October 7, 2013, the Spanish court issued an order naming SGI as a party, on a secondary civil liability basis, to the proceedings. SGI has not appeared in the proceedings and is therefore not yet subject to the jurisdiction of the Spanish courts. SGI will not appear unless and until it is adequately served and the Spanish court complies with all other requirements of applicable international treaties. If SGI is brought into the proceedings, it intends to defend its interests vigorously.Mr. Manning, and such other officers and directors, are entitled to receive, and have been receiving, advances from the Company for their legal fees and expenses in connection with the Spanish criminal proceedings. We are unable at this time to predict whether these developments will result in any kind of additional formal proceeding against SGI or CdC, and are unable to assess the likelihood of a favorable or unfavorable outcome of any such action, or to estimate the amount of liability in the event of an unfavorable outcome. If we are ultimately required to pay significant defense costs, damages or settlement amounts as a result of our indemnification obligations or potential secondary liability, such payments could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. In addition, the Spanish criminal proceedings and any charges against, or settlements by, any of our former officers, may generate negative publicity and adversely affect the investing public's (and others') perceptions of the Company. This, in turn, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, the market price of our common stock, our access to the capital markets and our borrowing costs.We are subject to ongoing obligations in connection with the SEC Settlement, and our failure to comply with those obligations, including the obligation to file our Exchange Act reports for prior periods, could adversely affect our business and the liquidity of our common stock.As previously disclosed, on March 23, 2009, the Company announced that it had reached a settlement (the “SEC Settlement”) with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which resolved charges filed against the Company in connection with the SEC's investigation into the Company's historical transactions with Afinsa. Under the terms of the SEC Settlement, which was approved by the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York on March 30, 2009, the Company consented, without admitting or denying the allegations made in the SEC's complaint, to a permanent injunction against any future violations of certain provisions of the federal securities laws, including those requiring us to make all filings under the Exchange Act. While we have endeavored to comply fully with the terms of the SEC Settlement, it is possible that the SEC's enforcement staff may take issue with our compliance, despite our efforts. In particular, we are not in compliance with the requirement that we make all necessary filings under the Exchange Act. We have not filed amended Reports on Form 10-K for the years ended June 30, 2004 and 2005 (either separately or as part of a comprehensive Report on Form 10-K); we have not filed Reports on Form 10-K for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2006, 2007 and 2008; and we have not filed Reports on Form 10-Q (or amended Reports on Form 10-Q, as the case may be) for any quarter during these fiscal years. The Company has completed its assessment of its ability to prepare financial statements for prior fiscal periods. The Company has concluded that it does not have sufficient evidentiary support to substantiate material components of the accounts receivable, inventory, consignor receivables and payables, accrued liabilities, sales transactions and the related cost of sales for its U.S. philatelic operations for any period or point in time prior to those consolidated financial statements related to its consolidated balance sheet balances as of June 30, 2007. In addition, the Company is unable to support certain of its corporate expenses, corporate accruals and intercompany balances and eliminations for such periods and points in time. Consequently, the Company has concluded that it cannot provide restated audited consolidated financial statements for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2004 and 2005, and is unable to provide audited consolidated financial statements for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2006 and 2007, except for its consolidated balance sheet balances at June 30, 2007. The Company filed its quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 on June 25, 2012. The failure by us to comply with the SEC Settlement could result in further enforcement actions by the SEC, including the imposition of sanctions or fines. In addition, the SEC could commence proceedings to suspend or revoke the registration of our common stock under Section 12(j) of the Exchange Act. The SEC could also seek to impose a trading halt in our common stock for up to ten trading days if it believes the public interest and the protection of investors requires it to do so. Should our common stock be de-registered, brokers, dealers and other market participants 10Table of Contents would be prohibited from buying or selling, making a market in, or publishing quotations or otherwise effecting transactions with respect to our common stock. As a result, public trading of our common stock would cease. This could have an adverse impact by reducing the liquidity of our common stock and preventing investors from buying or selling our common stock in the public market. In addition, the Company's ability to raise capital through the public issuance of equity or debt securities may be restricted because of its failure to file its delinquent reports under the Exchange Act. Our Board and Management Have Beneficial Ownership of a Sizeable Percentage of Our Common Stock.As of September 20, 2013, members of our board and management beneficially own over 43% of our outstanding common stock. Acting together in their capacity as stockholders, such board members and management could exert substantial influence over matters on which a stockholder vote is required, such as the approval of business combination transactions. Also because of the size of their beneficial ownership, such board members and management may be in a position effectively to determine the outcome of the election of directors and the vote on stockholder proposals. The concentration of beneficial ownership in the hands of our board and management may therefore limit the ability of our public shareholders to influence the affairs of the Company.We are the subject of examinations by U.S., and Spanish tax authorities.In November 2005, Spanish tax authorities commenced an investigation of CdC, covering all periods from fiscal 2003 through fiscal 2006. Our tax returns for fiscal 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, and 2010 are currently under exam by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”). These audits are ongoing and the outcome cannot be determined at this time. An adverse outcome could have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition and results of operations of the Company.The transactions contemplated by the Securities Purchase Agreement will likely limit our ability to use some or all of our net operating loss carryforwards and other tax benefits.The consummation of the transactions under the Securities Purchase Agreement resulted in a “change of control” for federal tax purposes. Accordingly, the Company's ability to utilize foreign tax credits and federal and state net operating losses are limited under the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended.Our trading business is exposed to commodity price risks, and our hedging activity to protect our inventory is subject to risks of default by our counterparties.A-Mark’s precious metals inventories are subject to market value changes created by change in the underlying commodity price, as well as supply and demand of the individual products A-Mark trades. In addition, open purchase and sale commitments are subject to changes in value between the date the purchase or sale is fixed (the trade date) and the date metal is delivered or received (the settlement date). A-Mark seeks to minimize the effect of price changes of the underlying commodity through the use of financial derivative instruments, such as forward and futures contracts. A-Mark’s policy is to remain substantially hedged as to its inventory position and to its individual purchase and sale commitments. A-Mark’s management monitors its hedged exposure daily. However, there can be no assurance that these hedging activities will be adequate to protect A-Mark against commodity price risks associated with its business activities.Furthermore, even if we are fully hedged as to any given position, there is the risk of default by our counterparties to the hedge. Any such default could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.Our trading business is dependent on a concentrated customer base.One of A-Mark's key assets is its customer base. This customer base provides deep distribution of product and makes A-Mark a desirable trading partner for precious metals product manufacturers, including sovereign mints seeking to distribute precious metals coinage or large refiners seeking to sell large volumes of physical precious metals. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2013, A-Mark's top two customers represented 11.4%, and 11.3%, respectively of our revenues. If our relationships with these customers deteriorated, or if we were to lose one or both of these customers, our business would be materially adversely affected.Our business is heavily dependent on A-Mark’s credit facility.Our business depends substantially on our ability to obtain financing for our operations. A-Mark’s borrowing facility, which we refer to as the Trading Credit Facility, provides A-Mark and CFC with the liquidity to buy and sell billions of dollars of precious metals annually. The Trading Credit Facility is a demand facility with a variable rate interest in which five lending institutions participate. A-Mark routinely uses the Trading Credit Facility to purchase metals from its suppliers and for operating cash flow purposes. Our CFC subsidiary also uses the facility to finance its lending activities.An institutional participant in the Trading Credit facility can withdraw at any time on written notice to A-Mark. The loss of one or more of the lines under the Trading Credit Facility, and the failure of A-Mark to replace those lines, would reduce the financing available to the Company and could limit our ability to conduct our business, including the lending activity of our CFC subsidiary. There can be no assurance that we 11Table of Contents could procure replacement financing if all or part of the Trading Credit Facility were terminated, on commercially acceptable terms and on a timely basis, or at all. Because the Trading Credit Facility is a demand facility, the lenders may require us to repay the indebtedness outstanding under the facility at any time. They may require repayment of the indebtedness even if we are in compliance with the financial and other covenants under the Trading Credit Facility. If the lenders were to demand repayment, we may not at the time have the financial resources to comply. Also, because interest under the Trading Credit Facility is variable, we are subject to fluctuations in interest rates, and we may not be able to pass along to our customers and borrowers some or any part of an increase in the interest that we are required to pay under the facility.The loss of a government purchaser/distributorship arrangement could materially adversely affect our trading business.A-Mark’s business is heavily dependent on its purchaser/distributorship arrangements with various governmental mints. Our ability to offer coins and bars to our customers on a competitive basis is based on the ability to purchase products directly from a government source. The arrangements with the governmental mints may be discontinued by them at any time. The loss of an authorized purchaser/distributor relationship, including with the U.S. Mint, could have a materially adverse effect on our business.A-Mark's business is heavily influenced by volatility in commodities prices.A primary driver of A-Mark's profitability is volatility in commodities prices, which lead to wider bid and ask spreads. Among the factors that can impact the price of precious metals are supply and demand of precious metals; political, economic, and global financial events; movement of the U.S. dollar versus other currencies; and the activity of large speculators such as hedge funds. If commodity prices were to stagnate, there would likely be a reduction in trading activity, resulting in less demand for the services A-Mark provides, which could materially adversely affect our business, liquidity and results of operations. This volatility may drive fluctuation of our revenues, as a consequence of which our results for any one period may not be indicative of the results to be expected for any other period. See “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”Increased commodity pricing could limit the inventory that we are able to carry.We maintain a large and varied inventory of precious metal products, including bullion and coins, in order to support our trading activities and provide our customers with superior service. The amount of inventory that we are able to carry is constrained by the borrowing limitations and working capital covenants under the our credit facility. If commodity prices were to rise substantially, and we were unable to modify the terms of our credit facility to compensate for the increase, the quantity of product that we could finance, and hence maintain, in our inventory would fall. This would likely have a material adverse effect on our operations.The Dodd-Frank Act could adversely impact our use of derivative instruments to hedge precious metal prices and may have other adverse effects on our business.On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which requires the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation, including with respect to derivative contracts on commodities. This legislation and any implementing regulations could significantly increase the cost of some commodity derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral, which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of some commodity derivative contracts, reduce the availability of some derivatives to protect against risks, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing commodity derivative contracts and potentially increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd-Frank legislation and regulations, we would be exposed to inventory and other risks associated with fluctuations in commodity prices. Also, if the Dodd-Frank legislation and regulations result in less volatility in commodity prices, our revenues could be adversely affected.We rely on the efficient functioning of commodity exchanges around the world, and disruptions on these exchanges could adversely affect our business.A-Mark buys and sells precious metals contracts on commodity exchanges around the world, both in support of its customer operations and to hedge its inventory and transactional exposure against fluctuations in commodity prices. The Company's ability to engage in these activities would be compromised if the exchanges on which the Company trades or any of their clearinghouses were to discontinue operations or to experience disruptions in trading, due to computer problems, unsettled markets or other factors. The Company may also experience risk of loss if futures commission merchants or commodity brokers with whom the Company deals were to become insolvent or bankrupt.The materials held by us are subject to loss, damage, theft or restriction on access.A-Mark has significant quantities of high-value precious metals on site, at third-party depositories and in transit. There is a risk that part or all of the gold and other precious metals held by A-Mark, whether on its own behalf or on behalf of its customers, could be lost, damaged or stolen. In addition, access to A-Mark’s gold could be restricted by natural events (such as an earthquake) or human actions (such as a terrorist attack). Although we maintain insurance on terms and conditions that we consider appropriate, we may not have adequate sources of recovery if our 12Table of Contents precious metals inventory is lost, damaged, stolen or destroyed, and recovery may be limited. Among other things, our insurance policies exclude coverage in the event of loss as a result of terrorist attacks or civil unrest.Our business is subject to the risk of fraud and counterfeiting.The collectibles and precious metals (particularly bullion) businesses are exposed to the risk of loss as a result of “materials fraud” in its various forms. We seek to minimize our exposure to this type of fraud through a number of means, including third-party authentication and verification, reliance on our internal experts and the establishment of procedures designed to detect fraud. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in preventing or identifying this type of fraud, or in obtaining redress in the event such fraud is detected.Our stock is currently traded on the OTCQB marketplace and an investor's ability to trade our common stock may be limited by trading volume.Since 2007, our stock has traded on the OTCQB marketplace. As a result, out stock is thinly traded, which in turn affects the ability of holders of our stock to resell the shares they purchase, and they may not be able to resell at prices at or above the prices they paid. The trading volume in our common stock has been relatively limited. A consistently active trading market for our common stock may not continue on the OTCQB marketplace. The average daily trading volume of our common stock for our fiscal year ended June 30, 2013 was approximately 6,800 shares.Our business is influenced by political conditions and world events.The collectibles and precious metals businesses are especially subject to global political conditions and world events. Precious metals are viewed by some as a secure financial investment in times of political upheaval or unrest, particularly in developing economies, which may drive up pricing. The volatility of the commodity prices for precious metals is also likely to increase in politically uncertain times. Conversely, during periods of relative international calm precious metal volatility is likely to decrease, along with demand, and the prices of precious metals may retreat. Because our business is dependent on the volatility and pricing of precious metals, we are likely to be influenced by world events more than businesses in other economic sectors.We could suffer losses with our financing operations.We engage in a variety of financing activities with our customers.•Receivables from our customers with whom we trade in precious metal products are effectively short-term, non-interest bearing extensions of credit that are generally secured by the related products maintained in the Company's possession or by a letter of credit issued on behalf of the customer. On average, these receivables are outstanding for periods of between 8 and 9 days.•The Company operates a financing business through CFC that makes secured loans at loan to value ratios-principal loan amount divided by the “liquidation value,” as conservatively estimated by management, of the collateral of 50% to 80%. These loans are both variable and fixed interest rate loans, with maturities from six to twelve months.•We make advances to our customers on unrefined metals and collectibles secured by materials received from the customer. These advances are limited to a portion of the materials received. •The Company makes wholesale are unsecured, short-term, non-interest bearing advances to wholesale metals dealers and government mints.•The Company periodically extends short-term credit through the issuance of notes receivable to approved customers at interest rates determined on a customer-by-customer basis. Our ability to minimize losses on the credit that we extend to our customers depends on a variety of factors, including: •our loan underwriting and other credit policies and controls designed to assure repayment, which may prove inadequate to prevent losses; •our ability to sell collateral upon customer defaults for amounts sufficient to offset credit losses, which can be affected by a number of factors outside of our control, including (i) changes in economic conditions, (ii) increases in market rates of interest and (iii) changes in the condition or value of the collateral; and •the reserves we establish for loan losses, which may prove inadequate.We are dependent on our key management personnel and our collectibles and trading experts.Our performance is dependent on our senior management and certain other key employees. We have employment agreements with Greg Roberts, our President and CEO, and with three other employees, the president of trading, a senior vice president of trading and the chief operating officer of A-Mark. These employment agreements all expire at the end of fiscal 2016. These and other employees have expertise in the trading markets, have industry-wide reputations, and perform critical functions for our business. We cannot offer assurance that we will be able to negotiate acceptable terms for the renewal of the employment agreements or otherwise retain our key employees. Also, there is significant competition for skilled precious metals traders and other industry professionals. The loss of our current key officers and employees, without the ability to replace them, would materially and adversely affect our business. 13Table of Contents We are focused on growing our business, but there is no assurance that we will be successful.We expect to grow both organically and through opportunistic acquisitions. We have devoted considerable time, resources and efforts over the past few years to our growth strategy. These have efforts placed, and are expected to continue to place, demands on our management and other personnel and resources, and have required, and will continue to require, timely and continued investment in facilities, personnel and financial and management systems and controls. We may not be successful in implementing our growth initiatives, which could adversely affect our business.Liquidity constraints may limit our ability to grow our business.To accomplish our growth strategy, we will require adequate sources of liquidity to fund both our existing business and our expansion activity. Currently, our sources of liquidity are the cash that we generate from operations and our borrowing availability under the Trading Credit Facility. There can be no assurance that these sources will be adequate to support the growth that we are hoping to achieve or that additional sources of financing for this purpose, in the form of additional debt or equity financing, will be available to us, on satisfactory terms or at all. Also, the Trading Credit Facility contains, and any future debt financing is likely to contain, various financial and other restrictive covenants. The need to comply with these covenants may limit our ability to implement our growth initiatives.We expect to grow in part through acquisitions, but an acquisition strategy entails risks.We hope to grow in part through acquisitions. We will consider potential acquisitions of varying sizes and may, on a selective basis, pursue acquisitions or consolidation opportunities involving other public companies or privately held companies. However, it is possible that we will not realize the expected benefits from our acquisitions or that our existing operations will be adversely affected as a result of acquisitions. Acquisitions entails certain risks, including: unrecorded liabilities of acquired companies that we fail to discover during our due diligence investigations; difficulty in assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired company within our existing operations or in maintaining uniform standards; loss of key employees of the acquired company; and strains on management and other personnel time and resources both to research and integrate acquisitions.We expect to pay for future acquisitions using cash, capital stock, notes and/or assumption of indebtedness. To the extent that our existing sources of cash are not sufficient to fund future acquisitions, we will require additional debt or equity financing and, consequently, our indebtedness may increase or shareholders may be diluted as we implement our growth strategy. We are subject to government regulations, and the cost of compliance could increase. There are various federal, state, local and foreign laws, ordinances and regulations that affect our trading business. For example, we are required to comply with a variety of anti-money laundering and know-your customer rules in response to the USA Patriot Act. The SEC has promulgated final rules mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act regarding disclosure of the use of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, known as conflict minerals, in products manufactured by public companies. These new rules require due diligence to determine whether such minerals originated from the Democratic Republic of Congo (the DRC) or an adjoining country and whether such minerals helped finance the armed conflict in the DRC. The first conflict minerals report required by the new rules is due by May 31, 2014 and annually thereafter. There will be costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including costs to determine the origin of gold used in our products. In addition, the implementation of these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of gold used in our products. Also, we may face disqualification as a supplier for customers and reputational challenges if the due diligence procedures we implement do not enable us to verify the origins for the gold used in our products or to determine that the gold is conflict free. CFC operates under a California Finance Lenders License issued by the California Department of Corporations. CFC is required to submit an annual report to the state which summarizes certain loan portfolio and financial information regarding CFC. The Department of Corporations may audit the books are records of CFC to determine whether CFC is in compliance with the terms of its lending license. There can be no assurance that the regulation of our trading and lending businesses will not increase or that compliance with the applicable regulations will not become more costly or require us to modify our business practices.While the collectibles market is not currently subject to direct federal, state or local regulation, from time to time government authorities discuss additional regulations which could impose restrictions on the collectibles industry, such as regulating collectibles as securities or requiring collectibles dealers to meet registration or reporting requirements, or regulating the conduct of auction businesses. Adoption of laws or regulations of this nature could lead to a decline in sales and purchases of collectibles. 14Table of Contents The weak economy has had a negative impact on our Collectibles operations.Our Collectibles business, which is significantly affected by the amount of discretionary consumer spending, has been adversely impacted by the general global economic climate, and any further deterioration in global economic conditions would have a negative effect on our Collectibles operations and the market value of the Collectibles inventory that we hold at any given time.We rely extensively on computer systems to execute trades and process transactions, and we could suffer substantial damages if the operation of these systems were interrupted.We rely on our computer and communications hardware and software systems to execute a large volume of trading transactions each year. It is therefore critical that we maintain uninterrupted operation of these systems, and we have invested considerable resources to protect our systems from physical compromise and security breaches and to maintain backup and redundancy. Nevertheless, our systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, including breaches of our transaction processing or other systems, catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our employees. If our systems are breached, damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them, we may suffer interruptions in our ability to provide quotations or trading services in the interim, and we may face costly litigation.We are in the process of developing an electronic trading platform that will allow our customers to place orders with us using a computerized interface. While we believe that this platform will offer many advantages to us and our customers in terms of efficiency and ease of operation, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in implementing this platform, in a manner that will be attractive to our customers or at all. Also, as in any new systems, we may experience operational difficulties with the platform in the early stages of its use, which could adversely affect relationships with our customers.If our customer data were breached, we could suffer damages and loss of reputation.By the nature of our business, we maintain significant amounts of customer data on our systems. Moreover, certain third party providers have access to confidential data concerning the Company in the ordinary course of their business relationships with the Company. In recent years, various companies, including companies that are significantly larger than us, have reported breaches of their computer systems that have resulted in the compromise of customer data. Any significant compromise or breach of customer or company data held or maintained by either the Company or our third party providers could significantly damage our reputation and result in costs, lost trades, fines and lawsuits. The regulatory environment related to information security and privacy is increasingly rigorous, with new and constantly changing requirements applicable to our business, and compliance with those requirements could result in additional costs. There is no guarantee that the procedures that we have implemented to protect against unauthorized access to secured data are adequate to safeguard against all data security breaches.We operate in highly competitive industries.The business of buying and selling precious metals and collectibles is global and highly competitive. The Company competes with precious metals trading firms and banks throughout North America, Europe and elsewhere in the world, some of whom have greater financial and other resources, and greater name recognition, than the Company. We believe that A-Mark, as a full service firm devoted exclusively to precious metals trading, offers pricing, product availability, execution, financing alternatives and storage options that are attractive to our customers and allow us to compete effectively. We also believe that A-Mark's purchaser/distributorship arrangements with various governmental mints gives us a competitive advantage in our coin distribution business. However, given the global reach of the precious metals trading business, the absence of intellectual property protections and the availability of numerous, evolving platforms for trading in precious metals, we cannot assure you that A-Mark will be able to continue to compete successfully or that future developments in the industry will not create additional competitive challenges. Our stock price may fluctuate.The market price of the Company's common stock dropped dramatically following May 9, 2006, when Spanish judicial authorities began an investigation related to alleged criminal wrongdoing by Afinsa and certain of its executives. In the past, the market price of the Company's common stock has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, some of which may be beyond the Company's control, including: •sales of the Company's common stock by stockholders, including Afinsa and Auctentia and members of management and our board; •actual or anticipated fluctuations in the Company's operating results; •the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; •developments and publicity regarding the Spanish criminal investigation •general economic conditions; and •lack of liquidity for our common stock based, in part, on our shares not being traded on a national exchange.In addition, the stock market in general has experienced that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of the Company's common stock, regardless of the Company's actual performance, and could enhance the effect of any fluctuations that do relate to its operating results. 15Table of Contents We have not paid dividends on our common stock in the past and do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future.We have not paid common stock dividends since our inception and do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. Our current business plan provides for the reinvestment of earnings, with the goal of increasing sales and long-term profitability and value. Therefore, an investor in our common stock will obtain an economic benefit from the common stock only after an increase in its trading price and only by selling the common stock.We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, and our business and stock price may be adversely affected if we do not adequately address this weakness or if we have other material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting.The Company operated with inadequate and insufficient accounting and finance resources to ensure timely and reliable financial reporting. This material weakness resulted in material adjustments to the valuation of inventory, estimated earn-out payments related to our Stack's LLC minority interest repurchase, and valuation of impairment over goodwill to the preliminary financial statements that were corrected prior to their issuance.As a result of this material weakness, the Company's management has concluded that, as of June 30, 2013, its internal control over financial reporting was not effective. To remediate this material weakness, during fiscal 2014, we intend to:•Determine the appropriate complement of corporate accounting and finance personnel required to ensure timely and reliable financial reporting, and;•Hire the requisite additional personnel and/or contractors with public company accounting and reporting experience, and;•Organize and design our internal review and evaluation process to include more formal management oversight of the methods and review procedures utilized and the conclusions reached, including for purposes of evaluating and ensuring the sufficiency of accounting resources.We can give no assurance that the measures we take will remediate the material weakness that we identified or that any additional material weaknesses will not arise in the future. We will continue to monitor the effectiveness of these and other processes, procedures and controls and will make any further changes management determines appropriate.The existence of one or more other material weaknesses or significant deficiencies could result in errors in our financial statements, and substantial costs and resources may be required to rectify any internal control deficiencies. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, the market price of our stock could decline significantly, we may be unable to obtain additional financing to operate and expand our business, and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable for a smaller reporting company. 16