ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSWe face risks and uncertainties in connection with the bankruptcy proceedings of Afinsa, our majority shareholder.In May 2011, Commercial Court No. 6 (Bankruptcy Court) in Madrid, Spain issued an order approving the liquidation of the assets owned by Afinsa. Afinsa, directly and through its wholly-owned subsidiary Auctentia, owns approximately 57% of the Company's outstanding common stock and 20% of the equity SPMI , which owns 100% of the Company A-Mark subsidiary. Afinsa has been in bankruptcy proceedings in Spain since July 2006.Under the terms of the order, the trustees of Afinsa have been directed to sell the common stock of the Company and the 20% interest in A-Mark held by it within 12 months. If the common stock of the Company has not been sold in one or more private transactions by the end of first eight months of that period, then the stock may thereafter be sold in the open market. These time frame may be extended under certain circumstances.On June 17, 2011, the Company entered into an exclusive negotiating agreement with Afinsa, pursuant to which the Afinsa trustees have agreed to negotiate exclusively with the Company for the sale (or “buy-back”) of all or a portion of the common stock of the Company and the 20% A-Mark interest through mid-October 2011.The Company, through a special committee of the Company's Board of Directors, comprised of independent members of the Company's Board of Directors, is negotiating with the liquidators of Afinsa for the repurchase of the Company's common stock 9and the A-Mark interest owned by Afinsa. If the Company is successful in negotiating the purchase of the Company's common stock and the A-Mark interest from Afinsa, the Company expects to finance the purchase through a combination of cash on hand, borrowed funds and a rights offering to its stockholders. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in negotiating the purchase of the Company's common stock and A-Mark interest from Afinsa, on a timely basis or at all, or if the Company will be able to obtain the financing necessary to consummate a purchase transaction. Among other things, the Company may be unable or may be unsuccessful in its attempt to raise cash through a rights offering or the Company may be unsuccessful in its attempt to borrow money to cover any portion of the purchase price that is not funded through the rights offering or through cash on hand of the Company and its A-Mark subsidiary. The Company's ability to raise capital through the public issuance of equity or debt securities may be restricted because of its failure to file its delinquent reports under the Exchange Act. If the Company enters into an agreement to purchase the Company common stock and A-Mark interest from Afinsa and is unable to close the transaction because of a lack of sufficient financing, the Company could be adversely affected. Finally, even if the Company is successful in negotiating and financing the purchase of the Company common stock and A-Mark interest from Afinsa, there can be no assurance as to the timing of the purchase.If the Company is unsuccessful in purchasing the Company common stock and A-Mark interest from Afinsa, Afinsa may sell the stock and A-Mark interest to a third party. A sale of all or a substantial portion of the shares of Company stock held by Afinsa to a holder (or group of holders) other than the Company will cause a change of control of the Company. A holder (or group of holders) of more than 50% of the Company's issued and outstanding stock has sufficient voting power to control the outcome of virtually all corporate matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders. These matters could include the election of directors, amendments to our by-laws, changes in the size and composition of our Board of Directors, and mergers and other business combinations involving us. Such a holder may promote policies or transactions that may not be favored by other stockholders or impede policies or transactions that may be desirable for other stockholders. A change of control could also have adverse tax consequences to the Company by limiting our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and other related tax attributes.The Company and Auctentia are parties to a registration rights agreement pursuant to which Auctentia may request that substantially all of the shares of the Company's common stock beneficially owned by it be registered by the Company at the Company's expense. Unless and until such a registration statement is declared effective, Afinsa would likely not be able to sell the shares of our Company publicly, and would have to dispose of those shares in one or more private transactions. If and when the shares are registered, then they will be freely tradable immediately after any registration. Sales of such shares in the public markets in one or more “block” transactions could have a negative effect on the trading price of the Company's common stock.We face potential liabilities as a result of ongoing proceedings against certain of the Company's former officers and directors. As more fully described below under “Legal Proceedings - Spanish Criminal Investigation,” Messrs. Manning and Crawford, along with other former officers and directors of the Company and Central de Compras Coleccionables (“CdC”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, are the subject of a criminal investigation in Spain arising out of the Company's transactions with Afinsa. The Company understands that, under Spanish law, after the end of the investigative stage, the Spanish Investigative Court will determine whether there are grounds to bring formal charges and to continue to a trial or whether the proceedings should be dismissed. As the Company understands Spanish law, corporations cannot be charged directly with criminal acts, but face the possibility of secondary civil liability through the actions of their officers. Therefore, if any of these former officers or directors of SGI or CdC is ultimately found guilty, then, under this principle of secondary civil liability, the Company could be held liable for certain associated penalties. However, neither SGI nor CdC is currently a party to these criminal proceedings, and the effect, if any, on the Company cannot be determined at this time.Messrs. Manning and Crawford (and such other officers and directors) are entitled to receive, and have been receiving, advances from the Company for their legal fees and expenses in connection with the Spanish criminal proceedings. We are unable at this time to predict whether these developments will result in any kind of additional formal proceeding against SGI or CdC, and are unable to assess the likelihood of a favorable or unfavorable outcome of any such action, or to estimate the amount of liability in the event of an unfavorable outcome. If we are ultimately required to pay significant defense costs, damages or settlement amounts as a result of our indemnification obligations or potential secondary liability, such payments could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. In addition, the Spanish criminal proceedings and any charges against, or settlements by, any of our former officers, may generate negative publicity and adversely affect the investing public's (and others') perceptions of the Company. This, in turn, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, the market price of our common stock, our access to the capital markets and our borrowing 10costs.We are subject to ongoing obligations in connection with the SEC Settlement, and our failure to comply with those obligations, including the obligation to file our Exchange Act reports for prior periods, could adversely affect our business and the liquidity of our common stock.As described in further detail below under the heading captioned “Legal Proceedings - SEC Action,” on March 23, 2009, the Company announced that it had reached a settlement with the SEC (the “SEC Settlement”), which resolved charges filed against the Company in connection with the SEC's investigation into the Company's historical transactions with Afinsa. Under the terms of the SEC Settlement, which was approved by the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York on March 30, 2009, the Company consented, without admitting or denying the allegations made in the SEC's complaint, to a permanent injunction against any future violations of certain provisions of the federal securities laws, including those requiring us to make all filings under the Exchange Act.While we have endeavored to comply fully with the terms of the SEC Settlement, it is possible that the SEC's enforcement staff may take issue with our compliance, despite our efforts. In particular, we are not in compliance with the requirement that we make all necessary filings under the Exchange Act. We have not filed amended Reports on Form 10-K for the years ended June 30, 2004 and 2005 (either separately or as part of a comprehensive Report on Form 10-K); we have not filed Reports on Form 10-K for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2006, 2007 and 2008; and we have not filed Reports on Form 10-Q (or amended Reports on Form 10-Q, as the case may be) for any quarter during these fiscal years. The Company has completed its assessment of its ability to prepare financial statements for prior fiscal periods. The Company has concluded that it does not have sufficient evidentiary support to substantiate material components of the accounts receivable, inventory, consignor receivables and payables, accrued liabilities, sales transactions and the related cost of sales for its U.S. philatelic operations for any period or point in time prior to those consolidated financial statements related to its consolidated balance sheet balances as of June 30, 2007. In addition, the Company is unable to support certain of its corporate expenses, corporate accruals and intercompany balances and eliminations for such periods and points in time. Consequently, the Company has concluded that it cannot provide restated audited consolidated financial statements for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2004 and 2005, and is unable to provide audited consolidated financial statements for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2006 and 2007, except for its consolidated balance sheet balances at June 30, 2007. The Company intends to file quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, by June 30, 2012. The failure by us to comply with the SEC Settlement could result in further enforcement actions by the SEC, including the imposition of sanctions or fines. In addition, the SEC could commence proceedings to suspend or revoke the registration of our common stock under Section 12(j) of the Exchange Act. The SEC could also seek to impose a trading halt in our common stock for up to ten trading days if it believes the public interest and the protection of investors requires it to do so. Should our common stock be de-registered, brokers, dealers and other market participants would be prohibited from buying or selling, making a market in, or publishing quotations or otherwise effecting transactions with respect to our common stock. As a result, public trading of our common stock would cease. This could have an adverse impact by reducing the liquidity of our common stock and preventing investors from buying or selling our common stock in the public market. In addition, the Company's ability to raise capital through the public issuance of equity or debt securities may be restricted because of its failure to file its delinquent reports under the Exchange Act.We are the subject of examinations by U.S., New York State and Spanish tax authorities.In November 2005, Spanish tax authorities commenced an investigation of CdC, covering all periods from fiscal 2001 through fiscal 2006. In February 2008, the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) commenced an audit of our tax returns for fiscal 2004, 2005 and 2006. In March 2008, the New York State Department of Taxation and Finance began an audit of our tax returns for fiscal 2005, 2006 and 2007.These audits are ongoing and the outcome cannot be determined at this time. An adverse outcome could have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition and results of operations of the Company.11We have incurred and expect to continue to incur substantial legal, accounting and other costs and expenses arising from our relationship with Afinsa.In addition to our advancement and indemnification obligations described above, we have also incurred significant expenses relating to the re-audit and restatement of our historical financial statements, investigation by the Audit Committee, the SEC investigation, the SEC Settlement and litigation commenced by our shareholders. We may incur significant additional expenses in connection with the Spanish criminal proceedings. In addition, these matters are likely to divert the time and attention of our management from regular business operations.Our trading business is exposed to commodity price risks and to risks of default of our counterparties.A-Mark's precious metals inventories are subject to market value changes created by change in the underlying commodity price, as well as supply and demand of the individual products the Company trades. In addition, open purchase and sale commitments are subject to changes in value between the date the purchase or sale is fixed (the trade date) and the date metal is delivered or received (the settlement date). A-Mark seeks to minimize the effect of price changes of the underlying commodity through the use of financial derivative instruments, such as forward and futures contracts. A-Mark's policy is to remain substantially hedged as to its inventory position and to its individual purchase and sale commitments. A-Mark's management monitors its hedged exposure daily. However, there can be no assurance that these hedging activities will be adequate to protect the Company against commodity price risks associated with A-Mark's business activities.Furthermore, even if we are fully hedged as to any given position, there is the risk of default by our counterparties to the hedge. Any such default could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.A-Mark's business is heavily dependent on its heavily concentrated customer base.One of A-Mark's key assets is its customer base. This customer base provides deep distribution of product and makes A-Mark a desirable trading partner for any precious metals product manufacturer, including a sovereign mint seeking to distribute precious metals coinage or a large refiner seeking to sell large volumes of physical precious metals. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011, A-Mark's top two customers represented 23.9%, and 10.5%, respectively of our Trading revenues. Any event that would adversely affect the relationship between A-Mark and its customers, or the loss of any significant customer, would negatively impact A-Mark's results of operations.A-Mark's business is heavily dependent on its credit facility and its banking relationships.The Trading Credit Facility provides A-Mark and CFC with the liquidity to buy and sell billions of dollars of precious metals annually. The Trading Credit Facility is a demand facility, and any of the five lending institutions can cancel its portion of the Trading Credit Facility upon written notice.The loss of a credit-line of any one of the five bank participants and the failure of A-Mark to replace that line could have a material adverse effect on the business and financial condition of A-Mark.In addition, CFC is permitted to utilize a portion of the Trading Credit Facility to fund its loans. There can be no assurance that the cash flows from our CFC business will be sufficient to enable us to repay any borrowings under the Trading Credit Facility.In addition, fluctuations in interest rates influence the cost of funds for borrowings under the Trading Credit Facility, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition.The loss of a government purchaser/distributorship arrangement could materially adversely affect A-Mark's business and results of operations.A-Mark's business is heavily dependent on its purchaser/distributorship arrangements with various governmental mints. A-Mark's ability to offer coins and bars to its customers on a competitive basis is based on its ability to purchase products directly from a government source. The loss of any authorized purchaser/distributor relationship, including with the U.S. Mint, could have a materially adverse effect on A-Mark's our business.12A-Mark's business is heavily influenced by volatility in commodities prices.A primary driver of A-Mark's profitability is volatility in commodities prices. Among the factors that can impact the price of precious metals are supply and demand of gold; political, economic, and global financial events; movement of the U.S. dollar versus other currencies; and the activity of large speculators such as hedge funds. If commodity prices were to stagnate, there would likely be a reduction in trading activity, resulting in less demand for the services A-Mark provides, which could materially adversely affect our business, liquidity and results of operations. Alternatively, an increase in commodity price volatility could result in increased business activity for A-Mark.The materials held by A-Mark and our collectibles companies are subject to loss, damage, theft or restriction on access.There is a risk that part or all of the gold and other precious metals held by A-Mark, and the collectibles held by our collectibles companies, could be lost, damaged or stolen. In addition, access to A-Mark's gold could be restricted by natural events (such as an earthquake) or human actions (such as a terrorist attack). Any of these events may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Although we maintain insurance on terms and conditions that we consider appropriate, we may not have adequate sources of recovery if our gold or other material is lost, damaged, stolen or destroyed, and recovery may be limited. Among other things, our insurance policies exclude coverage in the event of loss as a result of terrorist attacks or civil unrest.Our stock is not currently traded on a recognized exchange.In early 2007, our stock was de-listed from the NASDAQ National Market because of our failure to comply with our financial reporting obligations under the Exchange Act. Since then, our stock has traded on the “pink sheets.” As a result, out stock is thinly traded, which in turn affects the ability of holders of our stock to resell the shares they purchase, and they may not be able to resell at prices at or above the prices they paid. While we intend to re-list on a recognized exchange as soon as we meet all applicable listing requirements, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in doing so.Our business is influenced by political conditions and world events.Global political conditions and world events may affect us through their effect on the economies of various countries, as well as on the decision of buyers and sellers to purchase and sell precious metals and collectibles and the value of such precious metals and collectibles. As a result, adverse global political conditions and world events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to the risk of fraud, forgeries, fakes, lack of provenance and counterfeiting.Both our collectibles and precious metals (particularly bullion) business are exposed to the risk of loss as a result of “materials fraud” in its various forms. We seek to minimize our exposure to this type of fraud through a number of means, including third-party authentication and verification, reliance on our internal experts and the establishment of procedures designed to detect fraud. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in preventing or identifying this type of fraud, or in obtaining redress in the event such fraud is detected.We have significant operations outside the United States.Business operations outside the U.S. are subject to political, economic and other risks inherent in operating in foreign countries, such as: the difficulty of enforcing agreements, collecting receivables and protecting inventory and other assets through foreign legal systems; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; changes in the general political and economic conditions in the countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets; threat of nationalization and expropriation; higher costs and risks of doing business in a number of foreign jurisdictions; limitations on the repatriation of earnings; fluctuations in equity, revenues and profits due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, including measures taken by governments to devalue official currency exchange rates; and inflation levels exceeding that of the U.S.We try to manage these risks by monitoring current and anticipated political and economic developments and adjusting operations as appropriate. Changes in the political or economic environments of the countries in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.13We could suffer losses with our financing operations, which could affect our liquidity and results of operations.We offer various types of financing in our business. Our receivables from the customers with whom we trade in precious metals represent short-term, non-interest bearing amounts due from metal sales and are generally secured by the related metals maintained in the Company's possession, by a security interest, or by a letter of credit issued on behalf of the customer. Advances on refined materials represent metals advanced to customers, secured by unrefined materials received from the customer. These advances are limited to a portion of the unrefined materials received. Wholesale trade advances are unsecured, short-term, non-interest bearing advances made to wholesale metals dealers and government mints. The Company periodically extends short-term credit through the issuance of notes receivable to approved customers at interest rates determined on a customer-by-customer basis. The amounts due from brokers principally relates to commodity hedging transactions.The Company also frequently extends trade credit in connection with its auction sales. The Company evaluates each customer's creditworthiness on a case-by-case basis. The sale and auction of Company-owned inventory are, from time to time, made with extended payment terms of up to twelve months. Certain assets held by the Company collateralize these receivables.The Company operates a financing business through CFC that makes secured loans at loan to value ratios (principal loan amount divided by the “liquidation value”, as conservatively estimated by management, of the collateral) of 50% to 90%. These loans are both variable and fixed interest rate loans, with maturities from six to twelve months. The failure or inability of borrowers to repay their loans is an inherent risk in all lending. Our ability to minimize loan losses will depend on several factors, including (a) the loan underwriting and other policies and controls we continue to adopt and implement, which prove to be inadequate to prevent loan losses from occurring; (b) our ability to sell collateral, when a borrower defaults in the payment of a loan, for amounts sufficient to offset loan losses, which can be affected by a number of factors outside of our control, including (i) changes in economic conditions, (ii) increases in market rates of interest and (iii) changes in the condition or value of the collateral that will secure the loans we make; and (c) the reserves we will need to establish for potential loan losses, which may prove to be inadequate, in which case we would have to incur additional charges, which would have the effect of reducing our net income and could negatively impact our financial condition. Additionally, our CFC operations are subject to certain state and federal laws and regulations, which may impose significant costs or limitations on the way we conduct or expand such a business.Changes in our liquidity and capital requirements could limit our ability to achieve our plans.The Company currently has no working capital facility in place, other than its Trading and Collectibles Credit Facilities, which are repayable on demand. If the cash that we generate from our business, together with cash that we may borrow under the Trading and Collectibles Credit Facilities, is not sufficient to fund our capital requirements, we will require additional debt and/or equity financing. However, we may not succeed in obtaining the requisite additional financing on terms that are satisfactory to us or at all. In addition, the Company's ability to raise capital through the public issuance of equity or debt securities may be restricted because of its failure to file its delinquent reports under the Exchange Act.Failure to obtain such financing could have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to offer cash advances to potential consignors of property (which is an important aspect of the marketing of an auction business), to acquire collectibles for sale in the Company's business, to expand into sales of other collectibles, to expand our CFC operations, to initiate any other new business activities and to execute on any strategic growth plan we might develop. Also, the Trading and Collectibles Credit Facilities impose certain restrictive covenants, including restrictions on the payment of dividends to the parent company, which could have an adverse impact on our liquidity position and our ability to expand our business.We are dependent on our key management personnel and our Trading and Collectibles experts.Our performance is greatly dependent on the performance of our senior management and certain other key employees. Some of our executive officers and key employees, including Greg Roberts, our CEO and President, are experts in the collectibles and trading markets and have industry-wide reputations. The loss of these individuals could have a negative effect on our reputation for expertise in the collectibles and precious metals trading markets in which we operate and could lead to a reduction in our business. Competition for available trading and collectibles experts is intense. Accordingly, our business and our growth initiatives are heavily dependent on our ability (i) to retain our existing collectibles experts, who have developed relatively unique skills and enjoy a reputation for being experts within their fields, and (ii) to implement personnel recruiting, succession and training programs that will enable us to add trading and collectibles experts, as necessary, to grow our business and offset employee turnover that 14can occur from time to time. If we are not successful in retaining our existing experts or in hiring and training new experts, this could limit our ability to grow our business and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Moreover, some of our experts could leave our company to join a competitor or start a competing business.We have made numerous acquisitions, which entail certain risks, as do our other growth initiatives.We have grown in part through acquisitions and expect to continue to do so. We will consider potential acquisitions of varying sizes and may, on a selective basis, pursue acquisitions or consolidation opportunities involving other public companies or large privately-held companies. It is possible that we will not realize the expected benefits from our acquisitions or that our existing operations will be adversely affected as a result of acquisitions. The making of acquisitions entails certain risks, including: (a) unrecorded liabilities of acquired companies that we fail to discover during our due diligence investigations; (b) difficulty in assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired company within our existing operations or in maintaining uniform standards; (c) loss of key employees of the acquired company; and (d) strains on management and other personnel time and resources both to research and integrate acquisitions.We expect to pay for future acquisitions using cash, capital stock, notes and/or assumption of indebtedness. To the extent that our existing sources of cash are not sufficient to fund future acquisitions, we will require additional debt or equity financing and, consequently, our indebtedness may increase or shareholders may be diluted as we implement our growth strategy. We have also spent considerable time, resources and efforts, apart from acquisitions, in attempting to grow our business operations over the past few years. These efforts place, and are expected to continue to place, strains on our management and other personnel and resources and require timely and continued investment in facilities, personnel and financial and management systems and controls. We may not be successful in implementing all of the processes that are necessary to support our growth initiatives, which could result in our expenses increasing disproportionately to our incremental revenues, causing our operating margins and profitability to be adversely affected.We may not have successfully remediated previously identified material weaknesses in our internal controls and we may identify additional material weaknesses in the future.As described below under heading captioned “Controls and Procedures,” we have in the past had material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. There can be no assurance that the measures we have taken to address our disclosure control issues will be sufficient or that we will not identify additional weaknesses in the future. Additionally, even if we believe we have effective control over financial reporting, the process for assessing the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting requires subjective judgments and the application of standards that are relatively new and subject to questions of interpretation. If we conclude in the future that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, the perception of our Company may be adversely affected, which could in turn adversely affect the price of our securities, our access to the capital markets and/or our borrowing costs.The imposition of government regulations could increase our costs of doing business.Our trading operations are subject to regulation, supervision and licensing requirements under various federal, state, local and foreign laws, ordinances and regulations. New laws and regulations could be enacted that could have a negative impact on our trading activities.While the collectibles market is not currently subject to direct federal, state or local regulation, from time to time government authorities discuss additional regulations which could impose restrictions on the collectibles industry, such as regulating collectibles as securities or requiring collectibles dealers to meet registration or reporting requirements, or regulating the conduct of auction businesses. Adoption of laws or regulations of this nature could lead to a decline in sales and purchases of collectibles.The weak economy has had a negative impact on our Collectibles operations.Our Collectibles business, which is significantly affected by the amount of discretionary consumer spending, has been adversely impacted by the general global economic climate, and any further deterioration in global economic conditions would have a negative effect on our Collectibles operations and the market value of the Collectibles inventory that we hold at any given time.15We operate in highly competitive industries.The business of buying and selling precious metals and collectibles is highly competitive. The Company competes with a number of precious metals trading firms, auction houses, and collectibles companies throughout North America, Europe and the rest of the world, some of whom have greater financial, and other types of resources, and name recognition. Our competitors may offer services, pricing or commissions that could be deemed superior to ours.Our stock price may fluctuate.The market price of the Company's common stock dropped dramatically following May 9, 2006, when Spanish judicial authorities closed down Afinsa's business operations and began an investigation related to alleged criminal wrongdoing by Afinsa and certain of its executives. In the past, the market price of the Company's common stock has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, some of which may be beyond the Company's control, including: sales of the Company's common stock by stockholders, including Afinsa; actual or anticipated fluctuations in the Company's operating results; the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; developments and publicity regarding the Spanish criminal investigation and the SEC action; general economic conditions; and lack of liquidity for our common stock based, in part, on our shares not being traded on a national exchange.In addition, the stock market in general has experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of the Company's common stock, regardless of the Company's actual performance, and could enhance the effect of any fluctuations that do relate to its operating results.We have not paid dividends on our common stock in the past and do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future.We have not paid common stock dividends since our inception and do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. Our current business plan provides for the reinvestment of earnings, with the goal of increasing sales and long-term profitability and value. Our current business plan provides for the reinvestment of earnings, with the goal of increasing sales and long-term profitability and value. Therefore, an investor in our common stock will obtain an economic benefit from the common stock only after an increase in its trading price and only by selling the common stock.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable for a smaller reporting company. 16