ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We face risks and uncertainties in connection with the bankruptcy proceedings of Afinsa, our majority shareholder. On July 14, 2006, the Commercial Court in Spain (i) declared Afinsa insolvent, as a result of which Afinsa became subject to bankruptcy proceedings within that court, (ii) determined that the bankruptcy proceedings were involuntary, and (iii) appointed three trustees in bankruptcy to oversee the operations of Afinsa. Auctentia, which owns 66% of the Company’s stock directly, voluntarily filed for bankruptcy in 2006. An agreement with its creditors was reached in 2008 and Auctentia emerged from bankruptcy proceedings shortly thereafter. However, the stock of Auctentia is among the assets of Afinsa’s bankrupt estate. The Company understands the following with respect to Afinsa’s bankruptcy proceedings. Under Spanish insolvency law, there are two possible outcomes of Afinsa’s bankruptcy: (a) a settlement with the creditors is reached, which assumes Afinsa can resume operations under a reorganization plan, or (b) all of Afinsa’s assets are liquidated in order to pay down some or all of its debts, depending on the proceeds from the asset liquidation. Afinsa’s creditors include approximately 200,000 former clients of Afinsa who executed investment contracts with Afinsa. 11 Table of Contents A reorganization plan has been proposed by the former owners of Afinsa, and has been submitted for approval by the creditors. The deadline for voting on this plan was September 5, 2009 and, as of October 6, 2009, the votes are still being counted. The trustees have informed the Commercial Court that, in their view, this proposed reorganization plan is not viable. If the reorganization plan is approved by the creditors, the trustees could seek to challenge the arrangement. If the reorganization plan is not approved (or, if approved, is set aside), the Commercial Court will order the trustees to begin the liquidation process. The first step in that process is for the trustees to submit a liquidation plan to the Commercial Court. Thereafter, the creditors will have the right to comment on the plan and to propose modifications. The Commercial Court will then issue an order approving the final plan. All of this is expected to take place within 45 days after the Commercial Court issues the liquidation order, although there could be procedural delays. Thereafter, the liquidation process will begin, and that process is expected to be completed within one to two years, although it could take up to three years. The liquidation of Afinsa’s assets will include the sale, transfer or other disposition of the stock of the Company owned by it and Auctentia. A sale, transfer or other disposition of all or a substantial portion of the shares of Company stock held by Afinsa and its subsidiary will cause a change of control of the Company. A holder (or group of holders) of more than 50% of the Company’s issued and outstanding stock has sufficient voting power to control the outcome of virtually all corporate matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders. These matters could include the election of directors, amendments to our by-laws, changes in the size and composition of our Board of Directors, and mergers and other business combinations involving us. Such a holder may promote policies or transactions that may not be favored by other stockholders or impede policies or transactions that may be desirable for other stockholders. A change of control could also have adverse tax consequences to the Company by limiting our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and other related tax attributes. Although SGI and Auctentia are parties to a registration rights agreement pursuant to which Auctentia may request that substantially all of the shares of the Company’s common stock beneficially owned by it be registered by the Company at the Company’s expense, the Company would not be able to comply with any such request until it is able to meet the SEC requirements governing registration statements, including those relating to audited financial statements. Until such time, Afinsa (and Auctentia) would not be able to sell the shares of our Company publicly, and would have to dispose of those shares in one or more private transactions. If and when the shares are registered, then they will be freely tradeable immediately after any registration. Sales of such shares in the public markets in one or more “block” transactions could have a negative effect on the trading price of the Company’s common stock. We face potential liability as a result of ongoing proceedings against certain of the Company’s former officers and directors As described in further detail below, under the heading captioned “Legal Proceedings — SEC Action,” on March 23, 2009, following a three-year investigation, the SEC filed an action in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York against Greg Manning, formerly Chief Executive Officer and President of the Company and First Vice Chairman of its Board of Directors, and Larry Crawford, formerly the Chief Financial Officer of the Company. In the action, the SEC seeks a permanent injunction against future violations of certain provisions of the federal securities laws, and it also seeks disgorgement and civil monetary penalties in an unspecified amount. This action is ongoing. In addition, as more fully described below under “Legal Proceedings — Spanish Criminal Investigation,” Messrs. Manning and Crawford, along with other former officers and directors of the Company and CdC, are the subject of a criminal investigation in Spain arising out of the Company’s transactions with Afinsa. The Company understands that, under Spanish law, after the end of the investigative stage, which is expected to last for years, the Spanish Investigative Court will determine whether there are grounds to bring formal charges and to continue to a trial or whether the proceedings should be dismissed. As the Company understands Spanish law, corporations cannot be charged directly with criminal acts, but face the possibility of secondary civil liability through the actions of their officers. Therefore, if any of these former officers or directors of SGI or CdC is ultimately found guilty, then, under this principle of secondary civil liability, the corporation could be held liable for certain associated penalties. However, neither SGI nor CdC is currently a party to these criminal proceedings, and the effect, if any, on the Company cannot be determined at this time. Messrs. Manning and Crawford (and such other officers and directors) are entitled to receive advances from the Company for their legal fees and expenses in connection with the SEC action and the Spanish criminal proceedings. However, in the arbitration between the Company and Mr. Manning, as described below under “Legal Proceedings — Greg Manning v. SGI,” the Company intends to assert a counterclaim against Mr. Manning seeking, among other things, a declaration that Mr. Manning, in light of his wrongful conduct in connection with the Company’s transactions with Afinsa (which led to the termination of his consulting agreement for cause), is not entitled to indemnification or reimbursement for amounts paid or expenses incurred by him in connection with the SEC action or the Spanish proceedings. (The Company has already asserted a counterclaim seeking such a declaration with respect to the 12 Table of Contents shareholder litigation referred to above.) SGI expects to continue to advance Mr. Manning his legal fees and expenses unless and until the Company obtains a court declaration that he is not entitled to such benefit. In addition, if the Company fails to obtain such a declaration, it may be obligated to indemnify and reimburse Mr. Manning for amounts paid by him in connection with money judgments, penalties or settlements in the SEC action and the Spanish criminal proceedings. We are unable at this time to predict whether these developments will result in any kind of additional formal proceeding against SGI or CdC, and are unable to assess the likelihood of a favorable or unfavorable outcome of any such action, or to estimate the amount of liability in the event of an unfavorable outcome. If we are ultimately required to pay significant defense costs, damages or settlement amounts as a result of our indemnification obligations, such payments could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. In addition, the SEC action, the Spanish criminal proceedings and any additional charges against, or settlements by, any of our former officers, may generate negative publicity and adversely affect the investing public’s (and others’) perceptions of the Company. This, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock, our access to the capital markets and our borrowing costs, which could adversely affect our business and our results of operations. We are subject to ongoing obligations in connection with the SEC Settlement, and our failure to comply with those obligations, including the obligation to file our Exchange Act reports for prior periods, could adversely affect our business and the liquidity of our common stock. As described in further detail below under the heading captioned “Legal Proceedings — SEC Action,” on March 23, 2009, the Company announced that it had reached a settlement with the SEC (the “SEC Settlement”), which resolved charges filed against the Company in connection with the SEC’s investigation into the Company’s historical transactions with Afinsa. Under the terms of the SEC Settlement, which was approved by the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York on March 30, 2009, the Company consented, without admitting or denying the allegations made in the SEC’s complaint, to a permanent injunction against any future violations of certain provisions of the federal securities laws, including those requiring us to make all filings under the Exchange Act. While we will endeavor to comply fully with the terms of the SEC Settlement, it is possible that the SEC’s enforcement staff may take issue with our compliance, despite our efforts. In particular, we are not currently in compliance with the requirement that we make all necessary filings under the Exchange Act; we have not filed amended Reports on Form 10-K for the years ended June 30, 2004 and 2005 (either separately or as part of a comprehensive Report on Form 10-K); we have not filed Reports on Form 10-K for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2006, 2007 and 2008; and we have not filed Reports on Form 10-Q (or amended Reports on Form 10-Q, as the case may be) for any quarter during these fiscal years. The reason we have not been able to file these Reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q to date is that we face two major issues with completing our audit of the financial statements for our North American Philatelic Division — and therefore the audit of the Company’s consolidated financial statements — for any year prior to June 30, 2008. First, many of the accounting records for that Division for the prior periods — specifically, the supporting analyses for balance sheet and income statement accounts — are incomplete and need to be reconstructed. Second, the Company has experienced significant turnover in its accounting and corporate personnel since 2006, which has adversely impacted the Company’s ability to reconstruct these financial data. We are still assessing whether we will be able to file our prior years’ reports without unreasonable effort and expense. The failure by us to comply with the SEC Settlement, or any perception that we have failed to comply with the SEC Settlement, could result in further enforcement actions by the SEC, including the imposition of sanctions or fines. In addition, the SEC could commence proceedings to suspend or revoke the registration of our common stock under Section 12(j) of the Exchange Act. The SEC could also seek to impose a trading halt in our common stock for up to ten trading days if it believes the public interest and the protection of investors requires it to do so. Should our common stock be de-registered, brokers, dealers and other market participants would be prohibited from buying or selling, making a market in, or publishing quotations or otherwise effecting transactions with respect to our common stock. As a result, public trading of our common stock would cease. This could have an adverse impact by reducing the liquidity of our common stock and preventing investors from buying or selling our common stock in the public market. Greg Manning has commenced an arbitration against the Company. As described in further detail below under “Legal Proceedings — Greg Manning v. SGI,” on or about August 7, 2007, Mr. Manning commenced an arbitration against the Company before the American Arbitration Association. Mr. Manning purports to assert claims for breach of contract and defamation based on his allegation that the Company wrongfully terminated his consultancy for cause in 13 Table of Contents April 2007. Mr. Manning is seeking damages of approximately $34,000,000, and the Company has filed counterclaims against Mr. Manning. The arbitration hearings are currently scheduled to take place in December 2009. If the Company is unsuccessful in the arbitration, its results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, even if the Company is successful in the arbitration, the Company may be required to incur significant costs and expenses, and its executive officers and other employees may be required to invest a significant amount of time and attention, which could be a distraction from the Company’s business, and could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. We are the subject of examinations by U.S., New York and Spanish tax authorities. In November 2005, Spanish tax authorities commenced an investigation of CdC, covering all periods from fiscal 2001 through fiscal 2006. In February 2008, the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) commenced an audit of SGI’s tax returns for fiscal 2004, 2005 and 2006. In March 2008, the New York State Department of Taxation and Finance began an audit of our tax returns for fiscal 2005, 2006 and 2007. These audits are ongoing and the outcome cannot be determined at this time. An adverse outcome could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur substantial legal, accounting and other costs and expenses arising from our relationship with Afinsa. In addition to our advancement and indemnification obligations described above, we have also incurred significant expenses relating to the re-audit and restatement of our historical financial statements, the Audit Committee investigation, the SEC investigation and settlement and the shareholder litigation. We may incur significant additional expenses in connection with the re-audit and restatement of our historical financial statements, the preparation of our delinquent Exchange Act reports, the Spanish criminal proceedings and the arbitration proceeding against Mr. Manning. In addition, these matters are likely to divert the time and attention of our management from regular business operations. Our trading business is exposed to commodity price risks and to risks of default of our counterparties. A-Mark’s precious metals inventories are subject to market value changes created by change in the underlying commodity price, as well as supply and demand of the individual products the Company trades. In addition, open purchase and sale commitments are subject to changes in value between the date the purchase or sale is fixed (the trade date) and the date metal is delivered or received (the settlement date). A-Mark seeks to minimize the effect of price changes of the underlying commodity through the use of financial derivative instruments, such as forward and futures contracts. A-Mark’s policy is to remain substantially hedged as to its inventory position and to its individual purchase and sale commitments. A-Mark’s management monitors its hedged exposure daily. However, there can be no assurance that these hedging activities will be adequate to protect the Company against commodity price risks associated with A-Mark’s business activities. Furthermore, even if we are fully hedged as to any given position, there is the risk of default by our counterparties to the hedge. Any such default could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. There can be no assurance that A-Mark’s future performance will equal or exceed its performance in fiscal 2009. Our Trading operations performed exceptionally well in fiscal 2009. This performance was primarily attributable to global economic conditions, which resulted in higher precious metal prices, volatility in the precious metals market and increased demand for precious metal products worldwide. It is unlikely that these economic conditions will continue and, as a result, there can be no assurance the performance levels attained by the Trading segment in fiscal 2009 will be achieved in future periods. A-Mark’s business is heavily dependent on its heavily concentrated customer base. One of A-Mark’s key assets is its customer base. This base provides deep distribution of product and makes A-Mark a desirable trading partner for any precious metals product manufacturer, including a sovereign Mint seeking to distribute precious metals coinage or a large refiner seeking to sell large volumes of physical precious metals. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, A-Mark’s top two customers represented 23.1% and 6.2% of our Trading revenues, respectively. Any event that would negatively impact the relationship between A-Mark and its customers, or the loss of any significant customer, would negatively impact A-Mark’s results of operations. A-Mark’s business is heavily dependent on its credit facility and its banking relationships. The Credit Facility provides A-Mark and CFC with the liquidity to buy and sell billions of dollars of precious metals annually. The Credit Facility is a demand facility, and any of the four lending institutions can cancel its portion of the Credit Facility upon written notice. 14 Table of Contents The loss of a credit line of any one of the four bank participants and the failure of A-Mark to replace that line could have a materially adverse effect on the business and financial condition of A-Mark. In addition, CFC is permitted to utilize a portion of the Credit Facility to fund its loans. There can be no assurance that the cash flow from our CFC business will be sufficient to enable us to repay any borrowings under the Credit Facility. In addition, fluctuations in interest rates influence the cost of funds for borrowings under the Credit Facility. The loss of a government purchaser/distributorship arrangement could materially adversely affect A-Mark’s business and results of operations. A-Mark’s business is heavily dependent on its purchaser/distributorship arrangements with various governmental Mints. A-Mark’s ability to offer coins and bars to its customers on a competitive basis is based on its ability to purchase products directly from a government source. The loss of any authorized purchaser/distributor relationship, including with the U.S. Mint, could have a materially adverse effect on A-Mark’s business. A-Mark’s business is heavily influenced by volatility in commodities prices. A primary driver of A-Mark’s profitability is volatility in commodities prices. If prices were to stagnate, there would likely be a reduction in trading activity, resulting in less demand for the services A-Mark provides. Alternatively, an increase in price volatility would be likely to result in increased business activity for A-Mark. Among the factors that can impact the price of precious metals are supply and demand of gold; political, economic, and global financial events; movement of the U.S. dollar versus other currencies; and the activity of large speculators such as hedge funds. The materials held by A-Mark and our collectibles companies is subject to loss, damage, theft or restriction on access. There is a risk that part or all of the gold and other precious metals held by A-Mark, and the collectibles held by our collectibles companies, could be lost, damaged or stolen. In addition, access to A-Mark’s gold could be restricted by natural events (such as an earthquake) or human actions (such as a terrorist attack). Any of these events may adversely affect our operations. Although we maintain insurance on terms and conditions that we consider appropriate, we may not have adequate sources of recovery if our gold or other material is lost, damaged, stolen or destroyed, and recovery may be limited. Among other things, our insurance policies exclude coverage in the event of loss as a result of terrorist attacks or civil unrest. Our stock is not currently traded on a recognized exchange. In early 2007, our stock was de-listed from the Nasdaq National Market because of our failure to comply with our financial reporting obligations under the Exchange Act. Since then, our stock has traded on the “pink sheets,” and is thinly traded. While we intend to re-list on a recognized exchange as soon as we meet all applicable listing requirements, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in doing so. Our business is influenced by political conditions and world events. Global political conditions and world events may affect SGI through their effect on the economies of various countries, as well as on the decision of buyers and sellers to purchase and sell precious metals and collectibles and the value of such precious metals and collectibles. Our business is subject to the risk of fraud, forgery, fakes, lack of provenance and counterfeiting. Both our collectibles and precious metals (particularly bullion) business are exposed to the risk of loss as a result of “materials fraud” in its various forms. We seek to minimize our exposure to this type of fraud through a number of means, including third-party authentication and verification, reliance on our internal experts and the establishment of procedures designed to detect fraud. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in preventing or identifying this type of fraud, or in obtaining redress in the event such fraud is detected. We have significant operations outside the United States. Business operations outside the U.S. are subject to political, economic and other risks inherent in operating in foreign countries, such as: the difficulty of enforcing agreements, collecting receivables and protecting inventory and other assets through foreign legal systems; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread 15 Table of Contents operations; required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; changes in the general political and economic conditions in the countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets; threat of nationalization and expropriation; higher costs and risks of doing business in a number of foreign jurisdictions; limitations on the repatriation of earnings; fluctuations in equity, revenues and profits due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, including measures taken by governments to devalue official currency exchange rates; and inflation levels exceeding that of the U.S. We try to manage these risks by monitoring current and anticipated political and economic developments and adjusting operations as appropriate. Changes in the political or economic environments of the countries in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could suffer losses with our financing operations, which could affect our liquidity and results of operations. We offer various types of financing in our business. Our receivables from the customers with whom we trade in precious metals represent short-term, non-interest bearing amounts due from metal sales and are generally secured by the related metals maintained in the Company’s possesion, by a security interest, or by a letter of credit issued on behalf of the customer. Advances on refined materials represent metals advanced to customers, secured by unrefined materials received from the customer. These advances are limited to a portion of the unrefined materials received. Wholesale trade advances are unsecured, short-term, non-interest bearing advances made to wholesale metals dealers and government Mints. The Company periodically extends short-term credit through the issuance of notes receivable to approved customers at interest rates determined on a customer-by-customer basis. The amounts due from brokers principally relates to commodity hedging transactions. SGI also frequently extends trade credit in connection with its auction sales. The Company evaluates each customer’s creditworthiness on a case-by-case basis. The sale and auction of Company-owned inventory are, from time to time, made with extended payment terms of up to twelve months. Certain assets held by the Company collateralize these receivables. The Company operates a financing business through CFC that makes secured loans at loan to value ratios (principal loan amount divided by the “liquidation value”, as conservatively estimated by management, of the collateral) of 50% to 90%. These loans are both variable and fixed interest rate loans, with maturities from three to twelve months. The failure or inability of borrowers to repay their loans is an inherent risk in all lending. Our ability to minimize loan losses will depend on several factors, including (a) the loan underwriting and other policies and controls we continue to adopt and implement, which could prove to be inadequate to prevent loan losses from occurring; (b) our ability to sell collateral, when a borrower defaults in the payment of a loan, for amounts sufficient to offset loan losses, which can be affected by a number of factors outside of our control, including (i) changes in economic conditions, (ii) increases in market rates of interest and (iii) changes in the condition or value of the collateral that will secure the loans we make; and (c) the reserves we will need to establish for potential loan losses, which may prove to be inadequate, in which case we would have to incur additional charges, which would have the effect of reducing our net income and could negatively impact our financial condition. Additionally, our CFC operations are subject to certain state and federal laws and regulations, which may impose significant costs or limitations on the way we conduct or expand such a business. Changes in our liquidity and capital requirements could limit our ability to achieve our plans. The Company currently has no working capital facility in place, other than the Credit Facility for its trading operations, which is repayable on demand. If the cash that we generate from our business, together with cash that we may borrow under the Credit Facility, is not sufficient to fund our capital requirements, we will require additional debt and/or equity financing. However, we may not succeed in obtaining the requisite additional financing on terms that are satisfactory to us or at all. In addition, the Company’s ability to raise capital through the public issuance of equity or debt securities may be restricted because of its failure to file its delinquent reports under the Exchange Act. Failure to obtain such financing could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to offer cash advances to potential consignors of property (which is an important aspect of the marketing of an auction business), to acquire collectibles for sale in the Company’s business, to expand into sales of other collectibles, to expand our CFC operations, to initiate any other new business activities and to execute on any strategic growth plan we might develop. Also, the Credit Facility imposes certain restrictive covenants, including restrictions on the payment of dividends to the parent company, which could have an adverse impact on our liquidity position and our ability to expand our business. We are dependent on our key management personnel and our Trading and Collectibles experts. 16 Table of Contents Our performance is greatly dependent on the performance of our senior management and certain other key employees. Some of our executive officers and key employees, including Greg Roberts, our CEO and President, are experts in the collectibles and trading markets and have industry-wide reputations. The loss of these individuals could have a negative effect on our reputation for expertise in the collectibles and precious metals trading markets in which we operate and could lead to a reduction in our business. Competition for available trading and collectibles experts is intense. Accordingly, our business and our growth initiatives are heavily dependent on our ability (i) to retain our existing collectibles experts, who have developed relatively unique skills and enjoy a reputation for being experts within their fields, and (ii) to implement personnel recruiting, succession and training programs that will enable us to add trading and collectibles experts, as necessary, to grow our business and offset employee turnover that can occur from time to time. If we are not successful in retaining our existing experts or in hiring and training new experts, this could limit our ability to grow our business and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Moreover, some of our experts could leave our company to join a competitor or start a competing business. We have made numerous acquisitions, which entail certain risks, as do our other growth initiatives. We have grown in part through acquisitions and expect to continue to do so. We will consider potential acquisitions of varying sizes and may, on a selective basis, pursue acquisitions or consolidation opportunities involving other public companies or large privately-held companies. It is possible that we will not realize the expected benefits from our acquisitions or that our existing operations will be adversely affected as a result of acquisitions. The making of acquisitions entails certain risks, including: (a) unrecorded liabilities of acquired companies that we fail to discover during our due diligence investigations; (b) difficulty in assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired company within our existing operations or in maintaining uniform standards; (c) loss of key employees of the acquired company; and (d) strains on management and other personnel time and resources both to research and integrate acquisitions. We expect to pay for future acquisitions using cash, capital stock, notes and/or assumption of indebtedness. To the extent that our existing sources of cash are not sufficient to fund future acquisitions, we will require additional debt or equity financing and, consequently, our indebtedness may increase as we implement our growth strategy. We have also spent considerable time, resources and efforts, apart from acquisitions, in attempting to grow our business operations over the past few years. These efforts place, and are expected to continue to place, strains on our management and other personnel and resources and require timely and continued investment in facilities, personnel and financial and management systems and controls. We may not be successful in implementing all of the processes that are necessary to support our growth initiatives, which could result in our expenses increasing disproportionately to our incremental revenues, causing our operating margins and profitability to be adversely affected. We may not have successfully remediated previously identified material weaknesses in our internal controls and we may identify additional material weaknesses in the future. As described below under heading captioned “Controls and Procedures”, we have in the past had material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and, as of June 30, 2009, had numerous material weaknesses. We have also concluded that, as of June 30, 2009, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective. We have adopted a plan to remediate these material weaknesses and have taken steps to address certain of the issues associated with our disclosure controls and procedures. However, there can be no assurance that the measures we have taken and will take to remediate identified weaknesses and to address our disclosure control issues will be sufficient or that we will not identify additional weaknesses in the future. Additionally, even if we believe we have effective control over financial reporting, the process for assessing the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting requires subjective judgments and the application of standards that are relatively new and subject to questions of interpretation. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that our independent auditors will agree with our assessment. If either we or our auditors continue to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, the perception of our Company may be adversely affected, which could in turn adversely affect the price of our securities, our access to the capital markets and/or our borrowing costs. The imposition of government regulations could increase our costs of doing business. Our trading operations are subject to regulation, supervision and licensing requirements under various federal, state, local and foreign laws, ordinances and regulations. New laws and regulations could be enacted that could have a negative impact on our trading activities. While the collectibles market is not currently subject to direct federal, state or local regulation, from time to time government authorities discuss additional regulations which could impose restrictions on the collectibles industry, such as regulating collectibles as 17 Table of Contents securities or requiring collectibles dealers to meet registration or reporting requirements, or regulating the conduct of auction businesses. Adoption of laws or regulations of this nature could lead to a decline in sales and purchases of collectibles. 18 Table of Contents The weak economy has had a negative impact on our Collectibles operations. Our Collectibles business, which is significantly affected by the amount of discretionary consumer spending, has been adversely impacted by the general economic climate, and further deterioration in global economic conditions is expected to have a negative effect on our Collectibles operations and the market value of the Collectibles inventory that we hold at any given time. We operate in highly competitive industries. The business of buying and selling collectibles and precious metals is highly competitive. The Company competes with a number of auction houses, collectibles companies and precious metals trading firms throughout North America, Europe and the rest of the world, some of whom have greater financial and other resources and name recognition. Our competitors may offer services, pricing or commissions that could be deemed superior to ours. Our stock price may fluctuate. The market price of the Company’s common stock dropped dramatically following the events of May 9, 2006. In the past, the market price of the Company’s common stock has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, some of which may be beyond the Company’s control, including: sales of the Company’s common stock by stockholders, including Afinsa; actual or anticipated fluctuations in the Company’s operating results; the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; developments and publicity regarding the Spanish criminal investigation and the SEC action; and general economic conditions. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of the Company’s common stock, regardless of the Company’s actual performance, and could enhance the effect of any fluctuations that do relate to its operating results. We have not paid dividends on our common stock in the past and do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We have not paid common stock dividends since our inception and do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. Our current business plan provides for the reinvestment of earnings, with the goal of increasing sales and long-term profitability and value. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable to smaller reporting companies. 