Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors could affect our business, financial conditions or results of operations. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report because they could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. The risks that are highlighted are not the only ones we face. If the adverse matters referred to in any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or operations could be adversely affected. Adverse economic conditions in the automobile manufacturing and related service industries may impact our banking business. The automobile manufacturing industry has experienced significant economic difficulties over the past five years, which, in turn, has adversely impacted a number of related industries that serve the automobile manufacturing industry, including automobile parts suppliers. A number of other companies serving the automobile industry and located in our banking market are facing ongoing economic pressures. We cannot assure you that the economic conditions in the automobile manufacturing and related service industries will improve at any time in the foreseeable future or that adverse economic conditions in these industries will not impact our Bank. Adverse changes in economic conditions or interest rates may negatively affect our earnings, capital and liquidity. The results of operations for financial institutions, including our bank, may be materially and adversely affected by changes in prevailing local and national economic conditions, including declines in real estate market values and the related declines in value of our real estate collateral, rapid increases or decreases in interest rates and changes in the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government. Our profitability is heavily influenced by the spread between the interest rates we earn on investments and loans and the interest rates we pay on deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities. Substantially all our loans are to businesses and individuals in southeastern Michigan, and any decline in the economy of this area could adversely affect our customers’ ability to repay such loans and our ability to make new loans to credit worthy borrowers. Like most banking institutions, our net interest spread and margin will be affected by general economic conditions and other factors that influence market interest rates and our ability to respond to changes in these rates. At any given time, our assets and liabilities will be such that they will be affected differently by a given change in interest rates. Our credit losses could increase and our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses resulting in a decrease in our net income and earnings per share and a possible decline in our stock price. The risk of non-payment of loans is inherent in all lending activities, and non-payment, if it occurs, may have a materially adverse effect on our earnings and overall financial condition as well as the value of our common stock. Our focus on commercial lending may result in an increased concentration of loans to small businesses. As a result, we may assume greater lending risks than other banks. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for losses based on several factors. If our assumptions are wrong, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover our losses, which would have an adverse effect on our operating results. Due to the significant increase in loans originated since we began operations we cannot assure you that we will not experience an increase in delinquencies and losses as these loans continue to mature. The actual amount of future provisions for loan losses cannot be determined at this time and may exceed the amount of past provisions. Additions to our allowance for loan losses decrease our net income and earnings per share and may have an adverse effect on our stock price. 15 Table of Contents Our commercial real estate loans involve higher principal amounts than other loans, and repayment of these loans may be dependent on factors outside our control or the control of our borrowers. Commercial real estate lending typically involves higher loan principal amounts, and the repayment of these loans generally is dependent, in large part, on sufficient income from the properties securing the loans to cover operating expenses and debt service. Because payments on loans secured by commercial real estate often depend upon the successful operating and management of the properties, repayment of these loans may be affected by factors outside the borrower’s control, including adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy. If the cash flow from the property is reduced, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan and the value of the security for the loan may be impaired. At December 31, 2007, commercial real estate loans totaled $687 million, or 72% of our total loan portfolio. Because our loan portfolio contains a number of commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in our percentage of non-performing loans. An increase in non-performing loans could result in a loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses and an increase in charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our growth and expansion may be limited by many factors. We have pursued and intend to continue to pursue an internal growth strategy, the success of which will depend primarily on generating an increasing level of loans and deposits at acceptable risk and interest rate levels without commensurate increases in non-interest expenses. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in continuing our growth strategy due to delays and other impediments resulting from regulatory oversight, limited availability of qualified personnel, or unavailability of branch sites. The time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local management and opening new offices and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion may negatively affect our business. In addition, the success of our growth strategy will depend on maintaining sufficient regulatory capital levels and on adequate economic conditions in our market area. We continually seek to acquire other financial institutions or parts of those institutions. No assurance can be given that we will be able to integrate our operations after an acquisition without encountering difficulties including, without limitation, the loss of key employees and customers, the disruption of our respective ongoing businesses or possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. Successful integration of our operations with another entity’s will depend primarily on our ability to consolidate operations, systems and procedures, to establish appropriate internal controls, and to eliminate redundancies and costs. If we have difficulties with the integration, we might not achieve the economic benefits we expect to result from any particular acquisition or merger. In addition, we may experience greater than expected costs or difficulties relating to such integration. We rely heavily on our management and other key personnel, and the loss of any of them may adversely affect our operations. We are and will continue to be dependent upon the services of our management team, including our President and Chief Executive Officer and our other senior managers. Losing one or more key members of the management team could adversely affect our operations. In addition, we will continue to depend on our key commercial loan officers. We have several commercial loan officers who are responsible, or share responsibility, for generating and managing a significant portion of our commercial loan portfolio. Our success can be attributed in large part to the relationships these officers as well as members of our management team have developed and are able to maintain with our customers as we continue to implement our community banking philosophy. The loss of any of these commercial loan officers could adversely affect our loan portfolio and performance, and our ability to generate new loans. Some of the other financial institutions in our market require their key employees to sign agreements that preclude or limit their ability to leave their employment and compete with them or solicit their customers. These agreements make it more difficult for us to hire loan officers with experience in our market who can immediately solicit their former or new customers on our behalf. 16 Table of Contents Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive environment. We compete for deposits, loans and other financial services with numerous Michigan-based and out-of-state banks, thrifts, credit unions and other financial institutions as well as other entities that provide financial services. Some of the financial institutions and financial service organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as we are. Most of our competitors have been in business for many years, have established customer bases, are larger, have substantially higher lending limits than we do and offer other services which we do not, including trust services, brokerage, mutual funds and international banking services. The primary competitors in our market area are JPMorganChase, Charter One Bank, N.A., Comerica Incorporated, Fifth Third Bancorp, National City Corporation and Bank of America. Under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, effective March 11, 2000, securities firms and insurance companies that elect to become financial holding companies may acquire banks and other financial institutions. The financial services industry is also likely to become more competitive as further technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. These technological advances may diminish the importance of depository institutions and other financial intermediaries in the transfer of funds between parties. Growth and stockholder returns may be adversely affected if sources of capital are not available to help us meet them. Since inception, we have sought to maximize stockholder returns by leveraging our capital. While we believe that earnings from our operations will enable us to continue to grow, if earnings do not meet our current estimates, if we incur unanticipated losses or expenses, or if we grow faster than expected, we may need to obtain additional capital through borrowing, additional issuances of debt or equity securities, or otherwise. If we do not have continued access to sufficient capital, we may be required to reduce our level of assets or reduce our rate of growth in order to maintain regulatory compliance. Under those circumstances our net income and the rate of growth of our net income may be adversely affected. We are subject to significant government regulation, and any regulatory changes may adversely affect us. The banking industry is heavily regulated under both federal and state law. These regulations are primarily intended to protect customers, not our creditors or stockholders. As a bank holding company, we are also subject to extensive regulation by the Federal Reserve Board, in addition to other regulatory and self- regulatory organizations. Our ability to establish new facilities or make acquisitions is conditioned upon the receipt of the required regulatory approvals from these organizations. Regulations affecting banks and financial services companies undergo continuous change, and we cannot predict the ultimate effect of these changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability or financial condition. We continually encounter technological change, and we may have fewer resources than our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements. The banking industry is undergoing technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as creating additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively acquire and implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. 17 Table of Contents Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and the laws of Michigan contain provisions that may discourage or prevent a takeover of the Corporation and reduce any takeover premium. Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, and the corporate laws of the State of Michigan, include provisions which are designed to provide our board of directors with time to consider whether a hostile takeover offer is in our and our stockholders’ best interest. These provisions, however, could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control. The provisions also could diminish the opportunities for a holder of our common stock to participate in tender offers, including tender offers at a price above the then-current market price for our common stock. These provisions could also prevent transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then-current market prices, and may limit the ability of our stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. The Michigan Business Corporation Act contains provisions intended to protect stockholders and prohibit or discourage various types of hostile takeover activities. In addition to these provisions and the provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, federal law requires the Federal Reserve Board’s approval prior to acquiring “control” of a bank holding company. All of these provisions may delay or prevent a change in control without action by our stockholders, and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. There is a limited trading market for our common stock. The price of our common stock has been, and will continue to be, subject to fluctuations based on, among other things, economic and market conditions for bank holding companies and the stock market in general, as well as changes in investor perceptions of the Corporation. This issuance of new shares of our common stock also may adversely affect the market for our common stock. Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global Market under the symbol “DEAR”. The development and maintenance of an active public trading market depends upon the existence of willing buyers and sellers, the presence of which is beyond our control. While we are a publicly-traded company, the volume of trading activity in our stock is still relatively limited. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more before the end of our 2007 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 18 Table of Contents 