ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves certain risks. If any of these risks were to occur, our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Among the key risk factors that may have a direct impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition are the following. Our business is substantially dependent on the level of capital expenditures in the oil and gas industry, and lower capital expenditures will adversely affect our results of operations. The demand for our services depends on the condition of the oil and gas industry and, in particular, on the capital expenditures of companies engaged in the offshore exploration, development, and production of oil and natural gas. Capital expenditures by these companies are primarily influenced by four factors: • the oil and gas industry’s ability to economically justify placing discoveries of oil and gas reserves in production; • the oil and gas industry’s need to maintain, repair and replace existing pipelines and structures to extend the life of production; • the oil and gas industry’s need to clear structures from the lease once the oil and gas reserves have been depleted; and • weather events, such as major tropical storms. Historically, prices of oil and natural gas and offshore exploration, development and production have fluctuated substantially. A sustained period of substantially reduced capital expenditures by oil and gas companies will result in decreased demand for our services, low margins, and possibly net losses. Our international operations expose us to additional risks inherent in doing business abroad. A majority of our revenue is derived from operations outside the United States. The scope and extent of our operations outside of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico means we are exposed to the risks inherent in doing business abroad. These risks include the following: • currency exchange rate fluctuations, devaluations, and restrictions on currency repatriation; • unfavorable taxes, tax increases, and retroactive tax claims; • the disruption of operations from labor and political disturbances; • insurrection, war, or acts of terrorism that may disrupt or limit markets; • expropriation or seizure of our property; • nullification, modification, or renegotiation of existing contracts; • regional economic downturns; • import/export quotas and other forms of public and governmental regulation; and • inability to obtain or retain licenses required for operations. We cannot predict the nature of foreign governmental regulations applicable to our operations that may be enacted in the future. In many cases, our direct or indirect customer will be a foreign government, which can increase our exposure to these risks. U.S. government-imposed export restrictions or trade sanctions under the Export Administration Act of 2001, the Trading with the Enemy Act of 1917 or similar legislation or regulation also may impede our ability to expand our operations and bid for and accept work in specific countries that we might otherwise have the equipment and technical ability to compete. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation, and cash flows. 12 Table of Contents We are exposed to the substantial hazards and risks inherent in marine construction, and our insurance coverage is limited. Our business involves a high degree of operational risks. Hazards and risks that are inherent in marine operations include capsizing, grounding, colliding, and sustaining damage from severe weather conditions. In addition, our construction work can disrupt existing pipeline, platforms and other offshore structures. Any of these incidents could cause damage to or destruction of vessels, property or equipment, personal injury or loss of life, suspension of production operations, or environmental damage. The failure of offshore pipelines or structural components during or after our installation could also result in similar injuries or damages. Any of these events could result in interruption of our business or significant liability. We cannot always obtain insurance for our operating risks, and it is not practical to insure against all risks in all geographic areas. Builders risk insurance is becoming increasingly expensive and coverage limits have been decreasing. Uninsured liabilities resulting from our operations may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We depend on significant customers. Some of our segments derive a significant amount of their revenues from a small number of customers. For example, sales to PEMEX represented approximately 23% of our consolidated revenue in 2007 and substantially all of our Latin American revenue in 2007. The inability of these segments to continue to perform services for a number of their large existing customers and particularly the inability of our Latin America segment to continue to perform services for PEMEX, if not offset by contracts with new or other existing customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. If we are unable to attract and retain skilled workers our business will be adversely affected. Our operations depend substantially upon our ability to retain and attract project managers, project engineers, and skilled construction workers such as divers, welders, pipefitters, and equipment operators. Our ability to expand our operations is impacted by our ability to increase our labor force. The demand for skilled workers in our industry is currently high, and the supply is limited. As a result of the cyclical nature of the oil and gas industry as well as the physically demanding nature of the work, skilled workers may choose to pursue employment in other fields. A significant increase in the wages paid or benefits offered by competing employers could result in a reduction in our skilled labor force, increases in our employee costs, or both. If either of these events occur, our operations and results could be materially adversely affected. We may be unable to obtain critical project materials or services on a timely basis. Our operations depend on our ability to procure on a timely basis project materials, such as pipe, or project services, such as tugboats for barges, to complete projects in an efficient manner. Our inability to timely procure these resources could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not complete fixed-price or unit-rate contracts within our original estimates of costs, which will adversely affect our results. Because of the nature of the offshore construction industry, most of our projects are performed on a fixed-price or unit-rate basis. The profits we realize on one of our contracts will often vary from the estimated amounts because of changes in offshore job conditions, in labor and equipment productivity, and in third party costs. In addition, we sometimes bear the risk of delays caused by bad weather conditions. We may continue to suffer lower profits or even losses on some projects because of cost overruns resulting from these or other causes. 13 Table of Contents Our industry is highly competitive. Contracts for our services are generally awarded on a competitive bid basis, and price is a primary factor in determining who is awarded the project. Customers also consider availability and capability of equipment, reputation, experience, and the safety record of the contender in awarding jobs. During industry down cycles in particular, we may have to accept lower rates for our services and vessels or increased contractual liabilities which could result in lower profits or even losses. As we have increased our operations in deeper waters and internationally, we have encountered additional competitors, many of whom have greater experience than we do in these markets and greater resources. Additionally, our competitiveness in international markets may be adversely affected by regulations requiring, among other things, the awarding of contracts to local contractors, the employment of local citizens and/or the purchase of supplies from local vendors that favor or require local ownership. We operate in countries where corrupt behavior exists that could impair our ability to do business in the future or result in significant fines or penalties. We and our affiliates operate in countries where governmental corruption has been known to exist. While we and our subsidiaries are committed to conducting business in a legal and ethical manner, there is a risk of violating either the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) or laws or legislation promulgated pursuant to the 1997 OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions or other applicable anti-corruption regulations that generally prohibit the making of improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. Some of the internal control deficiencies identified by our management relate to our operations in West Africa and other foreign jurisdictions. These deficiencies make it more likely that a violation could have occurred. Violation of these laws could result in monetary penalties against us or our subsidiaries and could damage our reputation and, therefore, our ability to do business. For information concerning a current investigation related to FCPA matters in West Africa, see Item 3 – Legal Proceedings. Our internal controls may not be sufficient to achieve all stated goals and objectives; existing deficiencies may not be adequately remediated. Our internal controls and procedures were developed through a process in which our management applied its judgment in assessing the costs and benefits of such controls and procedures, which, by their nature, can provide only reasonable assurance regarding the control objectives. The design of any system of internal controls and procedures is based in part upon various assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that management document and test the internal controls over financial reporting and to assert annually in our Annual Report on Form 10-K whether the internal controls over financial reporting at year end are effective. We have not identified any material weaknesses in our internal controls as defined by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. During the course of documenting and testing our internal controls to ensure compliance with Section 404, we identified certain internal control issues and significant deficiencies which management believes should be improved and corrected. In addition to creating risks that information required to be reported in our SEC filings is not timely recorded, processed and reported, these deficiencies increase the likelihood of misstatements in our financial statements or violations of law. Management has a remediation plan for these issues and is working to complete its remediation. There can be no assurance, however, that all of the identified issues and significant deficiencies will be resolved. Any failure to remediate the deficiencies noted in connection with our audits or to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure also could adversely affect the results of the periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our “internal control over financial reporting” under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in the future. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could result in a lower trading price of our stock. 14 Table of Contents Our business is capital intensive, and our ability to finance our business depends on generating sufficient cash flow from our operations. We require substantial capital to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, and other cash needs. Our ability to generate cash depends on demand for construction services by the oil and gas industry as a result of the levels of capital expenditures by oil and gas companies and on competitive, general economic, financial, and many other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot provide assurance that we will always be able to generate sufficient operating cash flow to provide us with the working capital required to support our operations, and we may experience periodic cash demands that exceed our operating cash flow. Our failure to generate sufficient operating cash flow to provide adequate working capital would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our investments in auction rate securities may be adversely impacted by liquidity risk. We have invested a portion of our cash in auction rate securities. Our investments in auction rate securities may be adversely impacted by relatively illiquid markets. Our ability to sell these securities may be impaired due to the recent increase in failed auctions. We may not be able to liquidate these securities in the immediate future or may be forced to sell them for less than what we might have otherwise have been able to, or both. We may experience difficulties resolving claims and variation orders, which may adversely impact our cash flows. In the ordinary course of our business, we must negotiate with our clients to resolve claims and change orders. A “claim” is an amount in excess of the agreed contract price (or amount not included in the original contract price) that we seek to collect from our clients or others for client-caused delays, errors in specifications and designs, contract terminations, change orders in dispute or unapproved as to both scope and price, or other causes of unanticipated additional costs. A “change order” is a change to the scope of a project contract, which may be initiated by either us or our client. When a variation to the project scope or specifications is required, it is customary that we continue to execute the project to completion although we may not have precise agreement with our client on the financial responsibilities of all parties. If we are unable to resolve claims and change orders with our client satisfactorily, our profit and cash flow from the project could be adversely affected. There might be delays or cancellation of projects included in our backlog. As of December 31, 2007, our backlog of construction contracts amounted to approximately $713.6 million. The dollar amount of our backlog does not necessarily indicate future revenues or earnings related to the performance of that work. Although the backlog represents only business that we consider to be firm, cancellations, delays or scope adjustments have occurred in the past and are likely to occur in the future. Due to factors outside our control, such as changes in project scope and schedule, we cannot predict with certainty when or if projects included in our backlog will be performed. We may experience equipment or mechanical failures, which could increase costs, reduce revenues and result in penalties for failure to meet project completion requirements. The successful execution of contracts requires a high degree of reliability of our vessels, barges and equipment. The average age of our fleet as of December 31, 2007 was twenty-eight years. Breakdowns not only add to the costs of executing a project, but they can also delay the completion of subsequent contracts, which are scheduled to utilize the same assets. We operate a scheduled maintenance program in order to keep all assets in good working order, but despite this breakdowns can occur. Our operations could suffer with the loss of one of our senior officers or other key personnel. Our success depends heavily on continued services of our senior management and key employees. Our officers and key personnel have extensive experience in our industry, so if we were to lose any of our key employees or executive officers, our operations could suffer. 15 Table of Contents Our revenues are subject to a significant number of tax regimes, and changes in the tax legislation or the rules implementing tax legislation or the regulator enforcing those rules or legislation in any one of these countries could negatively and adversely affect our results of operations. We operate in many countries and are therefore subject to the jurisdiction of numerous tax authorities, as well as cross-border treaties between governments. Our operations in these countries are taxed on different bases, including net income, net income deemed earned, and revenue based withholding. We determine our tax provision based on our interpretation of enacted local tax laws and existing practices, and use assumptions regarding the tax deductibility of items and recognition of revenue. Changes in these assumptions could impact the amount of income taxes that we provide for any given year and could adversely affect our result of operations. Our debt instruments contain covenants that limit our operating and financial flexibility. Under the terms of our credit facility, we must maintain minimum levels of net worth and comply with, among other things, a fixed charge coverage ratio and a leverage ratio. Our ability to meet the financial ratios and tests under our credit facility is affected, in part, by events beyond our control, and we may not be able to satisfy those ratios and tests. For a more detailed discussion of our credit facility, please read “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Critical accounting policies significantly affect our reported financial results and conditions. Although our financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, the preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments, such as the estimates used for the cost to complete projects under the percentage-of-completion method of project accounting. These estimates and judgments have a significant effect on the amounts reported in our financial statements. Certain critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates, and these policies are described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - - Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates,” included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Actual amounts and results may differ materially from our estimates. We have incurred losses in past years and may incur additional losses in the future which could adversely affect our operations. In past years we have incurred losses from operations. We may have operating losses in the future if we cannot obtain sufficient work and complete projects within our cost estimates. Operating losses could have significant adverse effects on our future operations including limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions, reducing our ability to withstand competitive pressures and impairing our ability to obtain financing to provide for future working capital needs and capital expenditures. Compliance with environmental and other governmental regulations could be costly and could negatively impact our operations. Our vessels and operations are subject to and affected by various types of governmental regulation including many international, federal, state and local environmental protection laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex and stringent, and compliance may become increasingly difficult and expensive. We may be subject to significant fines and penalties for non-compliance, and some environmental laws impose joint and several “strict liability” for cleaning up spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, regardless of whether we were negligent or at fault. These laws and regulations may expose us to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by others or for our acts that complied with all applicable laws at the time we performed the acts. Adoption of laws or regulations that have the effect of curtailing exploration for and production of oil and natural gas in our areas of operation could adversely affect our operations by reducing demand for our services. In addition, new laws or regulations, or changes to existing laws or regulations may increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our operations. 16 Table of Contents We limit foreign ownership of our Company, which could reduce the price of our common stock. Our articles of incorporation limit the percentage of outstanding common stock and other classes of voting securities that non-United States citizens can own. Applying the statutory requirements applicable today, our articles of incorporation provide that no more than 25% of our outstanding common stock may be owned by non-United States citizens. These restrictions may at times preclude United States citizens from transferring their common stock to non-United States citizens. These restrictions may also limit the available market for resale of shares of common stock and for the issuance of shares by us and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Provisions in our corporate documents and Louisiana law could delay or prevent a change in control of our Company, even if that change would be beneficial to our shareholders. The existence of some provisions in our corporate documents could delay or prevent a change in control of our Company, even if that change would be beneficial to our shareholders. Our articles of incorporation and By-Laws contain provisions that may make acquiring control of our Company difficult, including provisions relating to the nomination and removal of our directors, provisions regulating the ability of our shareholders to bring matters for action at annual meetings of our shareholders, and the authorization given to our board of directors to issue and set the terms of preferred stock. Louisiana law also effectively limits the ability of a potential acquirer to obtain a written consent of our shareholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 17 Table of Contents 