Item 1A. Risk Factors The ownership of our common stock involves a number of risks and uncertainties. Potential investors should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information in this Form 10-K and Annual Report before deciding whether to invest in our securities. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks that are currently unknown to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial may also impair our business or adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Risks Relating to our Business We are subject to risks related to our dependence on the strength of retail economies in various parts of the world and our performance may be affected by general economic conditions and the current global financial crisis. The Company’s business depends on the strength of the retail economies in various parts of the world, primarily in North America and to a lesser extent Asia, Central and South America and Europe, which have recently deteriorated significantly and may remain depressed, or be subject to further deterioration, for the foreseeable future. These retail economies are affected primarily by factors such as consumer demand and the condition of the retail industry, which, in turn, are affected by general economic conditions and specific events such as natural disasters, terrorist attacks and political unrest. The impact of these external factors is difficult to predict, and one or more of the factors could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Purchases of many consumer products are discretionary and tend to be highly correlated with the cycles of the levels of disposable income of consumers. As a result, any substantial deterioration in general economic conditions could adversely affect consumer spending patterns, our sales and our results of operations. In 16 Table of Contents particular, decreased consumer confidence or a reduction in discretionary income as a result of unfavorable macroeconomic conditions may negatively affect our business. If the current macroeconomic environment persists or worsens, consumers may reduce or delay their purchases of our products. Any such reduction in purchases could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the retail industry and markets for consumer products affecting our customers or retailing practices could negatively impact existing customer relationships and our results of operations. We sell our Outdoor Solutions, Consumer Solutions and Branded Consumables products to retailers, including club, department store, drug, grocery, mass merchant, sporting goods and specialty retailers, as well as direct to consumers. A significant deterioration in the financial condition of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. We regularly monitor and evaluate the credit status of our customers and attempt to adjust sales terms as appropriate. Despite these efforts, a bankruptcy filing by a key customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, as a result of the desire of retailers to more closely manage inventory levels, there is a growing trend among retailers to make purchases on a “just-in-time” basis. This requires us to shorten our lead time for production in certain cases and more closely anticipate demand, which could in the future require us to carry additional inventories. We may be negatively affected by changes in the policies of our retailer customers, such as inventory destocking, limitations on access to and time on shelf space, use of private label brands, price demands and other conditions, which could negatively impact our results of operations. There is a growing trend among retailers in the U.S. and in foreign markets to undergo changes that could decrease the number of stores that carry our products or increase the concentration of ownership within the retail industry, including: • consolidating their operations; • undergoing restructurings or store closings; • undergoing reorganizations; or • realigning their affiliations. These consolidations could result in a shift of bargaining power to the retail industry and in fewer outlets for our products. Further consolidations could result in price and other competition that could reduce our margins and our net sales. Our sales are highly dependent on purchases from several large customers and any significant decline in these purchases or pressure from these customers to reduce prices could have a negative effect on our future financial performance. Due to consolidation in the U.S. retail industry, our customer base has become relatively concentrated. In 2008, one customer accounted for approximately 19% of our consolidated net sales. Although we have long-established relationships with many of our customers, we do not have any long-term supply or binding contracts or guarantees of minimum purchases. Purchases by our customers are generally made using individual purchase orders. As a result, these customers may cancel their orders, change purchase quantities from forecast volumes, or delay purchases for a number of reasons beyond our control. Significant or numerous cancellations, reductions, or delays in purchases by customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, because many of our costs are fixed, a reduction in customer demand could have an adverse effect on our gross profit margins and operating income. 17 Table of Contents We depend on a continuous flow of new orders from our large, high-volume retail customers; however, we may be unable to continually meet the needs of our customers. Furthermore, on-time delivery and satisfactory customer service are becoming increasingly important to our customers. Retailers are increasing their demands on suppliers to: • reduce lead times for product delivery, which may require us to increase inventories and could impact the timing of reported sales; • improve customer service, such as with direct import programs, whereby product is supplied directly to retailers from third party suppliers; and • adopt new technologies related to inventory management such as Radio Frequency Identification, otherwise known as RFID, technology, which may have substantial implementation costs. We cannot provide any assurance that we can continue to successfully meet the needs of our customers. A substantial decrease in sales to any of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our failure to generate sufficient cash to meet our liquidity needs may affect our ability to service our indebtedness and grow our business. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including our notes and amounts borrowed under our senior credit facility, and to fund planned capital expenditures and expansion efforts and strategic acquisitions we may make in the future, if any, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. Based on our current level of operations, we believe our cash flow from operations, together with available cash and available borrowings under our senior credit facility, will be adequate to meet future liquidity needs for at least the next twelve months. However, we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future, that our currently anticipated growth in revenues and cash flow will be realized on schedule or that future borrowings will be available to us under our senior credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to service indebtedness, including the debt securities, grow our business or to fund other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, including our notes and our senior credit facility, on or before maturity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our indebtedness imposes constraints and requirements on our business and financial performance, and our compliance and performance in relationship to these could materially adversely affect our financial condition and operations. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2008, we had total debt of approximately $2.9 billion. Our significant indebtedness could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we operate; • adversely affect our ability to expand our business, market our products and make investments and capital expenditures; • adversely affect our ability to pursue our acquisition strategy; 18 Table of Contents • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds. The terms of our senior credit facility and the indenture governing our 7 1/2% senior subordinated notes due 2017, which we refer to as our notes, allow us to issue and incur additional debt upon satisfaction of certain conditions. We anticipate that any future acquisitions we pursue as part of our growth strategy or potential stock repurchase programs may be financed through a combination of cash on hand, operating cash flow, availability under our existing credit facilities and new capital market offerings. If new debt is added to current debt levels, the related risks described above could increase. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. Borrowings under our revolving portion of our senior credit facility are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows would decrease. Our senior credit facility and the indenture related to our notes contain various covenants which limit our management’s discretion in the operation of our business and the failure to comply with such convents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our senior credit facility and the indenture related to our notes contain various provisions that limit our management’s discretion by restricting our and our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness; • pay dividends or distributions on, or redeem or repurchase, capital stock; • make investments; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • incur liens; • transfer or sell assets; and • consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, our senior credit facility requires us to meet certain financial ratios and other covenants. Any failure to comply with the restrictions of our senior credit facility and the indenture related to our notes or any other subsequent financing agreements may result in an event of default. An event of default may allow the creditors, if the agreements so provide, to accelerate the related debt as well as any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, the lenders may be able to terminate any commitments they had made to supply us with further funds. Furthermore, substantially all of our domestic assets (including equity interests) are pledged to secure our indebtedness under our senior credit facility. If we default on the financial covenants in our senior credit facility, our lenders could foreclose on their security interest in such assets, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The current credit crisis may impede our ability to successfully access capital markets and ensure adequate liquidity. The global credit markets have been experiencing significant disruption and volatility in recent months as evidenced by a lack of liquidity in the debt capital markets, significant write-offs in the financial services sector, the re-pricing of credit risk in the broadly syndicated credit market and failure of certain major financial 19 Table of Contents institutions. As a result, in some cases, the ability or willingness of traditional sources of capital to provide financing has been reduced. Such market disruptions may increase our cost of borrowing or affect our ability to access one or more financial markets. If we are not able to access debt capital markets at competitive rates, our ability to implement our business plan and strategy will be negatively affected. In particular, our account receivable securitization facility matures on July 13, 2009. If we are unable to refinance or replace this facility, our ability to manage our liquidity needs could be impaired which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Our lenders may have suffered losses related to the weakening economy and may not be able to fund our borrowings. Our lenders, including the lenders participating in our senior credit facility, may have suffered losses related to their lending and other financial relationships, especially because of the general weakening of the national economy and increased financial instability of many borrowers. As a result, lenders may become insolvent or tighten their lending standards, which could make it more difficult for us to borrow under our credit facility or to obtain other financing on favorable terms or at all. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we were unable to draw funds under our credit facility because of a lender default or to obtain other cost-effective financing. If we fail to develop new or expand existing customer relationships, our ability to grow our business will be impaired. Our growth depends to a significant degree upon our ability to develop new customer relationships and to expand existing relationships with current customers. We cannot guarantee that new customers will be found, that any such new relationships will be successful when they are in place, or that business with current customers will increase. Failure to develop and expand such relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operating results can be adversely affected by changes in the cost or availability of raw materials. Pricing and availability of raw materials for use in our businesses can be volatile due to numerous factors beyond our control, including general, domestic and international economic conditions, labor costs, production levels, competition, consumer demand, import duties and tariffs and currency exchange rates. This volatility can significantly affect the availability and cost of raw materials for us, and may, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. During periods of rising prices of raw materials, there can be no assurance that we will be able to pass any portion of such increases on to customers. Conversely, when raw material prices decline, customer demands for lower prices could result in lower sale prices and, to the extent we have existing inventory, lower margins. As a result, fluctuations in raw material prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Some of the products we manufacture require particular types of glass, metal, paper, plastic, wax, wood or other materials. Supply shortages for a particular type of material can delay production or cause increases in the cost of manufacturing our products. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. With the growing trend towards consolidation among suppliers of many of our raw materials, especially resin, glass and steel, we are increasingly dependent upon key suppliers whose bargaining strength is growing. In addition, many of those suppliers have been reducing production capacity of those raw materials in the North American market. We may be negatively affected by changes in availability and pricing of raw materials resulting from this consolidation and reduced capacity, which could negatively impact our results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Seasonality and weather conditions may cause our operating results to vary from quarter to quarter. Sales of certain of our products are seasonal. Sales of our outdoor camping equipment, fishing equipment and sporting goods equipment products increase during warm weather months and decrease during winter, while sales of our skis, snowboards and snowshoes increase during the cold weather months and decrease during summer. Additionally, sales of our Branded Consumables products generally reflect the season, with sales of our home improvement products concentrated in the spring and summer months and sales of our firelogs and firestarters concentrated in the fall and winter months. Sales of our Consumer Solutions products generally are strongest in the fourth quarter preceding the holiday season. Weather conditions may also negatively impact sales. For instance, fewer than anticipated natural disasters (i.e., hurricanes and ice storms) could negatively affect the sale of certain outdoor recreation products; mild winter weather may negatively impact sales of our winter sports products, firelogs and firestarters, and certain personal care and wellness products; and the late arrival of summer weather may negatively impact sales of outdoor camping equipment, fishing equipment, sporting goods and water sports products. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we cannot continue to develop new products in a timely manner, and at favorable margins, we may not be able to compete effectively. We believe that our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to continue to introduce innovative design extensions for our existing products and to develop, manufacture and market new products. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in the introduction, manufacturing and marketing of any new products or product innovations, or develop and introduce, in a timely manner, innovations to our existing products that satisfy customer needs or achieve market acceptance. Our failure to develop new products and introduce them successfully and in a timely manner, and at favorable margins, would harm our ability to successfully grow our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Competition in our industries may hinder our ability to execute our business strategy, achieve profitability, or maintain relationships with existing customers. We operate in some highly competitive industries. In these industries, we compete against numerous other domestic and foreign companies. Competition in the markets in which we operate is based primarily on product quality, product innovation, price and customer service and support, although the degree and nature of such competition vary by location and product line. We also face competition from the manufacturing operations of some of our current and potential customers with private label or captive house brands. Some of our competitors are more established in their industries and have substantially greater revenue or resources than we do. Our competitors may take actions to match new product introductions and other initiatives. Since many of our competitors source their products from third parties, our ability to obtain a cost advantage through sourcing is reduced. Certain of our competitors may be willing to reduce prices and accept lower profit margins to compete with us. Further, retailers often demand that suppliers reduce their prices on existing products. Competition could cause price reductions, reduced profits or losses or loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. To compete effectively in the future in the consumer products industry, among other things, we must: • maintain strict quality standards; • develop new products that appeal to consumers; and • deliver products on a reliable basis at competitive prices. Our inability to do any of these things could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 21 Table of Contents We are subject to risks related to acquisitions, and our failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We have achieved growth through the acquisition of both relatively large and small companies. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to integrate successfully these businesses or future acquisitions, into our existing business without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial difficulties. There is also no assurance that we will be able to successfully leverage synergies among our businesses to increase sales and obtain cost savings. Additionally, the failure of these businesses to achieve expected results, diversion of our management’s attention and failure to retain key personnel at these businesses could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We anticipate that any future acquisitions we pursue as part of our business strategy may be financed through a combination of cash on hand, operating cash flow, availability under our senior credit facility and new capital market offerings. If new debt is added to current debt levels, or if we incur other liabilities, including contingent liabilities, in connection with an acquisition, the debt or liabilities could impose additional constraints and requirements on our business and financial performance, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and operations. Failure to successfully implement our reorganization and acquisition-related projects timely and economically could materially increase our costs and impair our results of operations. We are in the process of significant reorganization and acquisition-related projects. There can be no assurance that these projects can be completed on time or within our projected costs. Furthermore, these projects will result in an increased reliance on sourced finished goods from third parties, particularly international vendors. Our failure to implement these projects economically and successfully could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to several production-related risks which could jeopardize our ability to realize anticipated sales and profits. In order to realize sales and operating profits at anticipated levels, we must manufacture or source and deliver in a timely manner products of high quality. Among others, the following factors can have a negative effect on our ability to do these things: • labor difficulties; • scheduling and transportation difficulties; • management dislocation; • substandard product quality, which can result in higher warranty, product liability and product recall costs; • delays in development of quality new products; • changes in laws and regulations, including changes in tax rates, accounting standards, and environmental, safety and occupational laws; • health and safety laws and regulations; and • changes in the availability and costs of labor. Any adverse change in the above-listed factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 22 Table of Contents Because we manufacture or source a significant portion of our products from Asia, our production lead times are relatively long. Therefore, we often commit to production in advance of firm customer orders. If we fail to forecast customer or consumer demand accurately we may encounter difficulties in filling customer orders or in liquidating excess inventories, or may find that customers are canceling orders or returning products. Additionally, changes in retailer inventory management strategies could make inventory management more difficult. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operations are dependent upon third-party suppliers whose failure to perform adequately could disrupt our business operations. We currently source a significant portion of parts and products from third parties. Our ability to select and retain reliable vendors who provide timely deliveries of quality parts and products will impact our success in meeting customer demand for timely delivery of quality products. We typically do not enter into long-term contracts with our primary vendors and suppliers. Instead, most parts and products are supplied on a “purchase order” basis. As a result, we may be subject to unexpected changes in pricing or supply of products. In addition, the current credit crisis and turbulent macroeconomic environment may affect the liquidity and financial condition of our suppliers. Should any of these parties fail to manufacture sufficient supply, go out of business or discontinue a particular component, we may not be able to find alternative suppliers in a timely manner, if at all. Any inability of our suppliers to timely deliver quality parts and products or any unanticipated change in supply, quality or pricing of products could be disruptive and costly to us. Our reliance on manufacturing facilities and suppliers in Asia could make us vulnerable to supply interruptions related to the political, legal and cultural environment in Asia. A significant portion of our products are manufactured by third-party suppliers in Asia, primarily the People’s Republic of China, or at our own facilities in southern China. Our ability to continue to select reliable vendors who provide timely deliveries of quality parts and products will impact our success in meeting customer demand for timely delivery of quality products. Furthermore, the ability of our own facilities to timely deliver finished goods, and the ability of third-party suppliers to timely deliver finished goods and/or raw materials, may be affected by events beyond their control, such as inability of shippers to timely deliver merchandise due to work stoppages or slowdowns, or significant weather and health conditions (such as SARS) affecting manufacturers and/or shippers. Any adverse change in, among other things, any of the following could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition: • our relationship with third-party suppliers; • the financial condition of third-party suppliers; • our ability to import products from these third-party suppliers or our own facilities; or • third-party suppliers’ ability to manufacture and deliver outsourced products on a timely basis. We cannot assure you that we could quickly or effectively replace any of our suppliers if the need arose, and we cannot assure you that we could retrieve tooling and molds possessed by any of our third-party suppliers. Our dependence on these few suppliers could also adversely affect our ability to react quickly and effectively to changes in the market for our products. In addition, international manufacturing is subject to significant risks, including, among other things: • labor unrest; • social, political and economic instability; • restrictions on transfer of funds; • domestic and international customs and tariffs; • unexpected changes in regulatory environments; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. 23 Table of Contents Labor in China has historically been readily available at relatively low cost as compared to labor costs in North America. China has experienced rapid social, political and economic change in recent years. We cannot assure you that labor will continue to be available to us in China at costs consistent with historical levels or that changes in labor or other laws will not be enacted which would have a material adverse effect on our operations in China. A substantial increase in labor costs in China could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Although China currently enjoys “most favored nation” trading status with the United States, the U.S. government has in the past proposed to revoke such status and to impose higher tariffs on products imported from China. We cannot assure you that our business will not be affected by the aforementioned risks, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in foreign, cultural, political and financial market conditions could impair our international operations and financial performance. Some of our operations are conducted or products are sold in countries where economic growth has slowed, such as Japan; or where economies have suffered economic, social and/or political instability or hyperinflation or where the ability to repatriate funds has been delayed or impaired in recent years, such as Mexico and Venezuela. The economies of other foreign countries important to our operations, including other countries in Europe, Latin America and Asia, could also suffer slower economic growth or economic, social and/or political instability in the future. International operations, including manufacturing and sourcing operations (and the international operations of our customers), are subject to inherent risks which could adversely affect us, including, among other things: • new restrictions on access to markets; • lack of developed infrastructure; • inflation or recession; • fluctuations in the value of currencies; • changes in and the burdens and costs of compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, including tax laws, accounting standards, environmental laws and occupational health and safety laws; • social, political or economic instability; • acts of war and terrorism; • natural disasters or other crises; • reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; • increases in duties and taxation; and • restrictions on transfer of funds and/or exchange of currencies; and other adverse changes in policies, including monetary, tax and/or lending policies, encouraging foreign investment or foreign trade by our host countries. Should any of these risks occur, our ability to export our products or repatriate profits could be impaired and we could experience a loss of sales and profitability from our international operations. Currency fluctuations may significantly increase our expenses and affect our results of operations, especially where the currency is subject to intense political and other environmental pressure, such as in the case of the Venezuelan Bolivar and the Chinese Renminbi. While we transact business predominantly in U.S. dollars and most of our revenues are collected in U.S. dollars, a substantial portion of our costs, such as payroll, rent and indirect operational costs, are denominated in other currencies, such as the British Pound, Chinese Renminbi, European Euro, Japanese Yen, Mexican Peso, 24 Table of Contents and Venezuelan Bolivar. Changes in the relation of these and other currencies to the U.S. dollar will affect our sales and profitability and could result in exchange losses. For example, a devaluation of the Venezuelan Bolivar would impact the carrying value of our assets in Venezuela and our results of operations because the earnings and assets of our Venezuelan operations would be reduced when translated into U.S. dollars. A stronger Mexican Peso would mean our products assembled or produced in Mexico would be more expensive to import into the U.S. or other countries, thereby reducing profitability of those products. Likewise, if the government of China allowed the Chinese Renminbi to rise substantially versus the U.S. dollar, the cost of our products produced in China would rise. Additionally, as the Company has substantial operations and assets located outside the United States, foreign operations expose us to foreign currency fluctuations that could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition based on the movements of the applicable foreign currency exchange rates in relation to the U.S. Dollar, both for purposes of actual conversion and financial reporting purposes. The impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations cannot be accurately predicted. There can be no assurance that the U.S. dollar foreign exchange rates will be stable in the future or that fluctuations in financial markets will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we experience revenue declines and decreased profitability, we may incur future impairment charges that could have a material effect on our results of operations. Our revenue growth and profitability are dependent on our ability to introduce new products and maintain market share. Several factors also impact our profitability which are discussed in this section. If declines in revenues and profitability prevent us from achieving our earnings projections, we may incur impairment charges related to goodwill or indefinite lived intangible assets, or both. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by the loss of our executive officers and the inability to attract and retain appropriately qualified replacements or the diversion of our Chief Executive Officer’s time and energy to permitted outside interests, including with respect to his obligations to a special purpose acquisition company. We are highly dependent on the continuing efforts of our executive officers, particularly Martin E. Franklin, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Ian G.H. Ashken, our Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer, and James E. Lillie, our President and Chief Operating Officer. We believe these officers’ experience in the branded consumer products industry and our business, and with strategic acquisitions of complementary businesses within our primary business segments, has been important to our historical growth and is important to our future growth strategy. We currently have employment agreements with all of these executive officers. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain any of these executive officers. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by the loss of any of these executive officers and the inability to attract and retain appropriately qualified replacements. We do not maintain “key man” insurance on any of our executive officers. Messrs. Franklin and Ashken have other interests and engage in other activities beyond their positions at Jarden (something they are permitted to do under the terms of their respective employment agreements with us provided such other activities do not interfere with their duties as an executive of Jarden or directly compete with us). In particular, Mr. Franklin is chairman of the board of directors of Liberty Acquisition Holdings Corp. (“Liberty”), a special purpose acquisition company (“SPAC”) formed to acquire one or more operating businesses with principal business operations in North America within 30-36 months of becoming a public company. Marlin Equities II, LLC, an investment vehicle majority owned by its managing member, Mr. Franklin, and Mr. Ashken, the other principal member, is one of the principal stockholders of Liberty. Liberty’s registration statement on Form S-1 previously filed with the Commission in late 2007 was declared effective by the Commission on December 6, 2007. Liberty consummated its initial public offering on December 12, 2007, 25 Table of Contents but has not announced any specific merger, acquisition, or other strategic transaction under consideration. Mr. Franklin is also chairman of the board of directors of Liberty Acquisition Holdings (International) Company (“LIAC”), a SPAC formed to acquire one or more operating businesses with principal business operations outside of North America within 24 months of becoming a public company. Marlin Equities IV, LLC, an investment vehicle majority owned by its managing member, Mr. Franklin, and Mr. Ashken, the other principal member, is one of the principal stockholders of LIAC. LIAC consummated its initial public offering on February 13, 2008, but has not announced any specific merger, acquisition, or other strategic transaction under consideration. Liberty and LIAC’s operations will be dependent upon a relatively small group of key officers and directors, including Mr. Franklin, at least until Liberty and LIAC have each consummated a business combination. Because Mr. Franklin will have an obligation to assist Liberty and LIAC in actively sourcing and acquiring target businesses, he will be required to spend time and energy (such time and energy may be potentially significant) that he might otherwise devote to Jarden on behalf of another enterprise, which could have an adverse impact on our business. Mr. Franklin has maintained outside business interests, including another SPAC investment, since becoming our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in 2001. None of these outside business interests conflict with his duties to Jarden. Mr. Franklin has committed to our Board of Directors that Liberty and LIAC will be seeking transactions outside of those that fit within Jarden’s publicly announced acquisition criteria and that Liberty and LIAC will not interfere with Mr. Franklin’s or Mr. Ashken’s obligations to Jarden. Mr. Franklin also committed to the Board of Directors that in order to avoid the potential for a conflict, prior to Liberty or LIAC pursuing any acquisition transaction that Jarden might consider, Mr. Franklin would first confirm with an independent committee of our Board of Directors that Jarden was not interested in pursuing the potential acquisition opportunity. If the independent committee concludes that Jarden was interested in that opportunity, Liberty or LIAC would not continue with that transaction. However, we cannot assure you that Liberty or LIAC will not choose to pursue transactions that Jarden would have considered. If Liberty or LIAC pursues transactions that Jarden would have considered, this could negatively impact Jarden’s growth from future acquisitions. A deterioration of relations with our labor unions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Approximately 300 union workers are covered by four collective bargaining agreements at four of our U.S. facilities. These agreements expire at our jar closure facility (Muncie, Indiana) in October 2009, at our kitchen match manufacturing facility (Cloquet, Minnesota) in February 2011, at our metals facility (Greeneville, Tennessee) in October 2011, and at our conductive fiber plant (Enka, North Carolina) in September 2010. Additionally, approximately 130 employees at our Legutiano, Spain manufacturing facility, approximately 205 employees at our Lyon, France facility and approximately 720 employees at our Latin America facilities are unionized. We have not experienced a work stoppage during the past five years except for brief work stoppages in 2004 and 2008 in Lyon, France in conjunction with our restructurings and pay rates at that location. However, we cannot assure you that there will not be a work stoppage in the future. Any such work stoppage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business involves the potential for product recalls, product liability and other claims against us, which could affect our earnings and financial condition. As a manufacturer and distributor of consumer products, we are subject to the Consumer Products Safety Act, which empowers the Consumer Products Safety Commission to exclude from the market products that are found to be unsafe or hazardous. Under certain circumstances, the Consumer Products Safety Commission could require us to repurchase or recall one or more of our products. Additionally, laws regulating certain consumer products exist in some cities and states, as well as in other countries in which we sell our products, and more restrictive laws and regulations may be adopted in the future. Any repurchase or recall of our products could be 26 Table of Contents costly to us and could damage our reputation. If we were required to remove, or we voluntarily removed, our products from the market, our reputation could be tarnished and we might have large quantities of finished products that we could not sell. We also face exposure to product liability claims in the event that one of our products is alleged to have resulted in property damage, bodily injury or other adverse effects. Although we maintain product liability insurance in amounts that we believe are reasonable, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms, if at all, in the future or that product liability claims will not exceed the amount of insurance coverage. Additionally, we do not maintain product recall insurance. As a result, product recalls or product liability claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we face potential exposure to unusual or significant litigation arising out of alleged defects in our products or otherwise. We spend substantial resources ensuring compliance with governmental and other applicable standards. However, compliance with these standards does not necessarily prevent individual or class action lawsuits, which can entail significant cost and risk. We do not maintain insurance against many types of claims involving alleged defects in our products that do not involve personal injury or property damage. As a result, these types of claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our product liability insurance program is an occurrence-based program based on our current and historical claims experience and the availability and cost of insurance. We currently either self insure or administer a high retention insurance program for product liability risks. Historically, product liability awards have rarely exceeded our individual per occurrence self-insured retention. We cannot assure you, however, that our future product liability experience will be consistent with our past experience. See Note 11 (Commitments and Contingencies) of the notes to our consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of these and other regulatory and litigation-related matters. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may manufacture and market products similar to ours, which could adversely affect our market share and results of operations. Our success with our proprietary products depends, in part, on our ability to protect our current and future technologies and products and to defend our intellectual property rights. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may manufacture and market products similar to ours. Our principal intellectual property rights include our trademarks. We also hold numerous design and utility patents covering a wide variety of products. We cannot be sure that we will receive patents for any of our patent applications or that any existing or future patents that we receive or license will provide competitive advantages for our products. We also cannot be sure that competitors will not challenge, invalidate or avoid the application of any existing or future patents that we receive or license. In addition, patent rights may not prevent our competitors from developing, using or selling products that are similar or functionally equivalent to our products. Our results could be adversely affected if the cost of compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations becomes too burdensome. Our operations are subject to federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those that impose workplace standards and regulate the discharge of pollutants into the environment and establish standards for the handling, generation, emission, release, discharge, treatment, storage and disposal of materials and substances including solid and hazardous wastes. We believe that we are in material compliance with such laws and regulations and that the cost of maintaining compliance will not have a material adverse 27 Table of Contents effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. However, due to the nature of our operations and the frequently changing nature of environmental compliance standards and technology, we cannot assure you that future material capital expenditures will not be required in order to comply with applicable environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. We may be subject to environmental and other regulations due to our production and marketing of products in certain states and countries. We also face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new requirements relating to the materials composition of our products. The European Union (“EU”) issued two directives, currently in effect, relating to chemical substances in electronic products. The Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive requires producers of electrical goods to pay for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products (the “WEEE Legislation”). The EU has issued another directive that requires electrical and electronic equipment placed on the EU market after July 1, 2006 to be free of lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium (above a threshold limit) and brominated flame retardants (the “RoHS Legislation”). If we do not comply with these directives, we may suffer a loss of revenue, be unable to sell in certain markets and/or countries, be subject to penalties and enforced fees and/or suffer a competitive disadvantage. Similar legislation could be enacted in other jurisdictions, including in the United States. Costs to comply with the WEEE Legislation, RoHS Legislation and/or similar future legislation, if applicable, could include costs associated with modifying our products, recycling and other waste processing costs, legal and regulatory costs and insurance costs. We may also be required to take reserves for costs associated with compliance with these regulations. We cannot assure you that the costs to comply with these new laws, or with current and future environmental and worker health and safety laws, will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may incur significant costs in order to comply with environmental remediation obligations. In addition to operational standards, environmental laws also impose obligations on various entities to clean up contaminated properties or to pay for the cost of such remediation, often upon parties that did not actually cause the contamination. Accordingly, we may be liable, either contractually or by operation of law, for remediation costs even if the contaminated property is not presently owned or operated by us, is a landfill or other location where we have disposed wastes, or if the contamination was caused by third parties during or prior to our ownership or operation of the property. Given the nature of the past industrial operations conducted by us and others at these properties, there can be no assurance that all potential instances of soil or groundwater contamination have been identified, even for those properties where an environmental site assessment has been conducted. We do not believe that any of our existing remediation obligations, including at third-party sites where we have been named a potentially responsible party, will have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations or financial condition. However, future events, such as changes in existing laws or policies or their enforcement, or the discovery of currently unknown contamination, may give rise to additional remediation liabilities that may be material. See “Environmental Matters” under Note 11 (Commitments and Contingencies) of the notes to our consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of these and other environmental-related matters. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”) regulations and New York Stock Exchange market rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity. As a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general 28 Table of Contents and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our external auditors’ audit of that assessment has required the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. We expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. Furthermore, our board members, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may be harmed. We may not be able to implement or operate successfully and without interruptions the operating software systems and other computer technologies that we depend on to operate our business, which could negatively impact or disrupt our business. We are in the process of selecting or implementing new operating software systems within a number of our business segments and complications from these projects could cause considerable disruptions to our business. While significant testing will take place and the rollout will occur in stages, the period of change from the old system to the new system will involve risk. Application program bugs, system conflict crashes, user error, data integrity issues, customer data conflicts and integration issues among our legacy systems all pose potential risks. Implementing data standards such as RFID, which our largest customers are requiring that we use, involves significant effort across the entire organization. Any problems with or delays of this implementation could impact our ability to do business and could result in higher implementation costs and reallocation of human resources. We rely on other companies to maintain some of our information technology infrastructure. Should they fail to perform due to events outside our control, it could affect our service levels and threaten our ability to conduct business. In addition, natural disasters such as hurricanes may disrupt our infrastructure and our disaster recovery process may not be sufficient to protect against loss. Additionally, our business operations are dependent on our logistical systems, which include our order management systems and our computerized warehouse systems. Any interruption in our logistical systems could impact our ability to procure our products from our factories and suppliers, transport them to our distribution facilities, store them and deliver them to our customers on time and in the correct amounts. Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 