ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There are numerous factors that affect our business and operating results, many of which are beyond our control. The following is a description of significant factors that might cause our future operating results to differ materially from those currently expected. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not specified herein, not currently known to us, or currently deemed to be immaterial also may adversely affect our business, financial position, operating results, and/or cash flows. Our business is substantially dependent on the level of capital expenditures in the oil and gas industry, and lower capital expenditures will adversely affect our results of operations. The demand for our services depends on the condition of the oil and gas industry and, in particular, on the capital expenditures of companies engaged in the offshore exploration, development, and production of oil and natural gas. Capital expenditures by these companies are influenced by numerous factors, including but not limited to: • the demand for oil and natural gas; • worldwide political conditions and political actions, particularly in significant oil-producing regions such as the Middle East, West Africa and Latin America which can result in nationalization and seizures of assets; • the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and natural gas; • the economic and regulatory impact of the Macondo well incident in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico; • expectations regarding future commodity prices; • the need to maintain, repair, and replace existing pipelines and structures to extend the life of production; • the need to clear structures from the lease once the oil and gas reserves have been depleted; • general economic conditions; • environmental and other governmental regulations; and • weather events, such as major tropical storms or hurricanes. Historically, prices of oil and natural gas and offshore exploration, development, and production have fluctuated substantially. Climate change regulation and public attitudes about the use of carbon based energy sources could result in decreased demand for oil and natural gas adversely affecting our future results of operations. A sustained period of substantially reduced capital expenditures by oil and gas companies will result in decreased demand for our services, low margins, and possibly net losses. Economic conditions could negatively affect our business. The effects of the economic crisis, which began in 2008, remain and the return to consistent and sustained growth is not yet certain. Continued prolonged periods of little or no economic growth will further decrease the growth in demand for oil and natural gas, which could result in lower prices for crude oil and natural gas and therefore, lower demand and potentially lower pricing for our services. If economic conditions deteriorate for prolonged periods or do not improve, our results of operations and cash flows would be adversely affected. Although crude oil and natural gas prices have increased during 2010 to historicly high levels, they are still below the July 2008 price levels. These price declines contributed to the reduction of drilling activity and demand for our services from the levels experienced during 2007 and early 2008. In addition, most of our customers are involved in the energy industry, and if a significant number of them experience a prolonged business decline or disruption as a result of economic slowdown or lower crude oil and natural gas prices, we may incur increased exposure to credit risk and bad debts, which could negatively affect our cash flows. 13 Table of Contents Our business could be adversely impacted by the Macondo well incident and the resulting changes in regulations affecting offshore oil and gas exploration and development activity. Our North American Subsea and North America OCD segments operate primarily in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. In response to the April 2010 Macondo Well incident, new governmental safety and environmental requirements applicable to both deepwater and shallow water operations have been adopted. The new safety and environmental guidelines and regulations for drilling and related activities in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico that the U.S. government has already issued, including the Oil Spill Accountability and Environmental Protection Act, Securing Protections for the Injured from Limitations on Liability, Americanization of Offshore Operations in the EEZ (exclusive economic zone), and any further new guidelines or regulations the U.S. government may issue or any other steps the U.S. government may take, could disrupt or delay operations, increase the cost of operations, or reduce the area of operations for drilling activities in U.S. offshore areas. At this time, we cannot predict the impact of the Macondo well incident and resulting changes in the regulation of offshore oil and gas exploration and development activity on our operations or contracts or what actions may be taken by our customers, other industry participants, or the U.S. government in response to the incident. Increased costs for our customers’ operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, along with permitting delays, could affect the economics of currently planned exploration and development activity in the area and reduce demand for our services, which could ultimately have a material adverse affect on our revenue and profitability. Additionally, future legislative or regulatory enactments may impose new requirements that could increase our costs. Volatility and uncertainty of the credit markets may negatively affect us. The impact of the economic downturn in the global credit markets continues to significantly affect the availability of credit and financing costs for many of our customers. Many of our customers finance their offshore exploration and development programs through third-party lenders. The reduced availability and increased costs of borrowing could cause our customers to reduce their capital expenditures for offshore exploration and development, thereby reducing demand and potentially resulting in lower pricing for our services. In addition, the current credit and economic environment could significantly affect the financial condition of some customers over a period of time, leading to business disruptions and restricting their ability to pay us for services performed, which could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. We intend to finance our existing operations and initiatives with cash and cash equivalents, investments, cash flows from operations, and potential borrowings under our credit facility. If adverse national and international economic conditions continue or deteriorate further, it is possible that we may not have access to credit markets or other sources of liquidity. War, other armed conflicts, or terrorist attacks could have a material adverse effect on our business. Armed conflicts, terrorism or piracy and their effects on us or our markets may significantly affect our business and results of operations in the future. The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and subsequent terrorist attacks and unrest have caused instability in the world’s financial and commercial markets, have significantly increased political and economic instability in some of the geographic areas in which we operate and have contributed to high levels of volatility in prices for oil and gas. The continuing instability and unrest in Iraq, Afghanistan, Nigeria and the Gulf of Aden, and the recent protests in the Middle East, as well as threats of piracy, war or other armed conflict elsewhere, may cause further disruption to financial and commercial markets and contribute to even higher levels of volatility in prices for oil and gas. In addition, the continued unrest in Iraq, Afghanistan, and the Middle East could lead to acts of terrorism in the United States or elsewhere, and acts of terrorism could be directed against companies such as ours. Also, acts of terrorism and threats of armed conflicts in or around various areas in which we operate, such as Indonesia, could limit or disrupt our markets and operations, including disruptions from evacuation of personnel, cancellation of contracts or the loss of personnel or assets. 14 Table of Contents We depend on significant customers and a loss of any one of them could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, five customers accounted for over 60% of our revenues. The loss of any of these customers, if not offset by contracts with new or other existing customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our industry is highly competitive. Contracts for our services are generally awarded on a competitive bid basis, and price is a primary factor in determining who is awarded the project. Customers also consider availability and capability of equipment, reputation, experience, and the safety record of the contender in awarding jobs. During industry down cycles in particular, when the market is oversupplied with available vessels, we may have to accept lower rates for our services and vessels or increased contractual liabilities, which could result in continued lower profits or losses. As we have increased our operations in deeper waters and internationally, we have encountered additional competitors, many of whom have greater experience and greater resources than we do in these markets. Additionally, our competitiveness in international markets may be adversely affected by regulations requiring, among other things, the awarding of contracts to local contractors, the employment of local citizens and/or the purchase of supplies from local vendors that favor or require local ownership. New capital asset construction projects are subject to risks, including delays and cost overruns, which could have a material adverse effect on our available cash resources and results of operations. We are continuing the upgrade of our fleet with the construction of a new generation derrick/pipelay vessel, the Global 1201. This project, and any other capital asset construction projects which we may commence, are subject to similar risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any large construction project resulting from numerous factors, including the following: • shortages of key equipment, materials or skilled labor; • unscheduled delays in the delivery of ordered materials and equipment; • unanticipated cost increases; • weather interferences; • difficulties in obtaining necessary permits or in meeting permit conditions; • design and engineering problems; and • shipyard delays and performance issues. Failure to complete construction on time, or the inability to complete construction in accordance with its design specifications, may, in some circumstances, result in loss of revenues, penalties, or delay, renegotiation or cancellation of a contract. In the event of termination of one of these contracts, we may not be able to secure a replacement contract on as favorable terms. Additionally, capital expenditures for construction projects could materially exceed our planned capital expenditures. Our business is capital intensive and our ability to finance our business depends on generating sufficient cash flow from our operations. As of December 31, 2010, our backlog of construction contracts amounted to $170.8 million compared to a backlog of $103.8 million as of December 31, 2009. We require substantial amounts of capital to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, and other cash needs. Our ability to generate cash depends on demand for construction services by the oil and gas industry as a result of the levels of capital expenditures by oil and gas companies and on competitive, general economic, financial, and many other factors that are beyond our control. Our ability to finance our business is also dependant upon our ability to execute projects successfully. We cannot provide assurance that we will always be able to generate sufficient operating cash flow to provide us with the working capital required to support our operations, and we may experience periodic cash demands that exceed our operating cash flow. Our 15 Table of Contents failure to generate sufficient operating cash flow to provide adequate working capital would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Maintaining adequate letter of credit capacity is necessary for us to successfully bid on various contracts. Consistent with industry practice, we are often required to post standby letters of credit to customers in connection with bidding on new projects and for certain projects that we are awarded. These letters of credit generally indemnify customers if we fail to perform our obligations under the applicable contracts. If a letter of credit is required for a project and we are unable to obtain it due to insufficient liquidity or other reasons, we will not be able to pursue that particular project. We have limited capacity under our Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, as amended (“the Revolving Credit Facility”) for letters of credit. Also, depending on credit market conditions, letters of credit may be more difficult to obtain in the future or may only be available to us at a significant additional cost. We cannot provide assurance that letters of credit will continue to be available to us on reasonable terms. Our inability to obtain adequate letters of credit and, as a result, to bid on new work could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2010, we had $44.8 million in letters of credit issued under our Revolving Credit Facility. We have substantial funds held at domestic and foreign financial institutions that exceed the insurance coverage offered by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and foreign governments, the loss of which would have a severe negative effect on our operations and liquidity. Although the FDIC insures deposits in banks and thrift institutions up to $250,000 per eligible account, the amount that we have deposited at certain banks substantially exceeds the FDIC limit. If any of the financial institutions where we have deposited funds were to fail, we may lose some or all of our deposited funds that exceed the FDIC’s $250,000 insurance coverage limit. Such a loss would have a severe negative effect on our operations and liquidity. Our debt instruments contain covenants that limit our operating and financial flexibility. Under the terms of our Revolving Credit Facility, we must comply with certain financial covenants. A continuing period of weak economic activity will make it increasingly difficult to comply with our covenants and other restrictions in our debt. Our ability to meet the financial ratios and tests under our Revolving Credit Facility is affected by current economic conditions and by events beyond our control. We have failed to meet certain financial covenants under our Revolving Credit Facility in the past and we may not be able to satisfy these covenants or other covenants in the future thereby necessitating cash collateralization of our letter of credit exposure. If we fail to comply with our financial covenants and other restrictions, it could require us to cash collateralize outstanding and future letters of credit, or lead to an event of default, the possible acceleration of our repayment of outstanding debt and the exercise of certain remedies by the lenders, including foreclosure on our pledged collateral. We cannot assure you that we would have access to the credit markets as needed to replace our existing debt and we could incur increased costs associated with any available replacement financing. For a more detailed discussion of our Revolving Credit Facility, please read “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Our international operations expose us to additional risks inherent in doing business abroad. A majority of our revenue is derived from operations outside the United States. The scope and extent of our operations outside of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico means we are exposed to the risks inherent in doing business abroad. These risks include: • regional economic downturns; • currency exchange rate fluctuations, devaluations, and restrictions on currency repatriation; 16 Table of Contents • unfavorable taxes, tax increases, and retroactive tax claims; • the disruption of operations from labor and political disturbances; • insurrection, war, or acts of terrorism or piracy that may disrupt markets; • expropriation or seizure of our property; • hijacking or kidnapping of our employees • nullification, modification, renegotiation, or unenforceability of existing contracts; • import/export quotas and other forms of public and governmental regulation; and • inability to obtain or retain licenses required for operations. We cannot predict whether foreign governmental regulations applicable to our operations will be enacted in the future. In many cases, our direct or indirect customer will be a foreign government, which can increase our exposure to these risks. U.S. government-imposed export restrictions or trade sanctions under the Export Administration Act of 2001, the Trading with the Enemy Act of 1917 or similar legislation or regulation also may impede our ability to expand our operations and bid for and accept work in specific countries that we might otherwise have the equipment and technical ability to compete. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation, and cash flows. We are exposed to the substantial hazards and risks inherent in marine construction and our insurance coverage is limited. Our business involves a high degree of operational risks. Hazards and risks that are inherent in marine operations include capsizing, grounding, colliding, and sustaining damage from severe weather conditions. To the extent that storms in the areas we operate are intensified or increase in number by global or regional climate changes, these risks are heightened. In addition, our construction work can disrupt existing pipeline, platforms, and other offshore structures. Any of these incidents could result in damage to or destruction of vessels, property or equipment, personal injury or loss of life, suspension of production operations, or environmental damage. The failure of offshore pipelines or structural components during or after our installation could also result in similar injuries or damages. Consequently, third parties may have claims against us for damages due to personal injury, death, property damage, or loss of business. Any of these events could result in interruption of our business or significant liability. We cannot always obtain insurance for our operating risks, and it is not practical to insure against all risks in all geographic areas. Builders risk insurance is becoming increasingly expensive and coverage limits have been decreasing. Uninsured liabilities resulting from our operations may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The implementation of our business strategy will expose us to additional operational risk. An element of our business strategy is to broaden our business segments with emphasis on deepwater/SURF and integrated projects. As we begin to implement this part of our strategy, we will be exposed to additional operational risks inherent in these longer-term deepwater and integrated projects, such as harsh weather conditions and project execution issues. The costs associated with the realization of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. There might be delays or cancellation of projects included in our backlog. The dollar amount of our backlog does not necessarily indicate future revenues or earnings related to the performance of that work. Although the backlog represents only business that we consider to be firm, in the past, cancellations, delays, or scope adjustments have occurred and are likely to occur in the future. Due to factors outside our control, such as changes in project scope and schedule, we cannot predict with certainty when or if projects included in our backlog will be performed. Even when a project proceeds as scheduled, it is possible that contracted parties may default on their payments to us or poor project performance may increase the cost associated with a project. Cancellations, delays, scope 17 Table of Contents adjustments, payment defaults, and poor project execution could materially reduce the revenues and reduce or eliminate the profits that we actually realize from projects in our backlog. We are subject to risks associated with contractual pricing and may not complete fixed-price or unit-rate contracts within our original estimates of costs, which will adversely affect our results. The offshore construction industry is highly competitive and most of our projects are performed on a fixed-price or unit-rate basis. Our actual costs could exceed our projections. We attempt to recover increased costs of anticipated changes in offshore job conditions, weather, labor, equipment productivity, and third party costs, either through estimates of cost increases, which are reflected in the original contract price, or through change orders. Despite these attempts, however, the costs and profits we realize on fixed-price or unit-rate contracts could vary materially from estimated amounts. Cost overruns may result in reduced profit or increased losses on projects that could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We have incurred losses in past years and may incur additional losses in the future that could adversely affect our operations. We have incurred losses in 2010 and in past years and may have operating losses in the future if we cannot obtain sufficient work and/or complete projects within our cost estimates on fixed price or unit-rate contracts. Operating losses could have significant adverse effects on our future operations including limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions, reducing our ability to withstand competitive pressures, and impairing our ability to obtain financing to provide for future working capital needs and capital expenditures. We may be unable to obtain critical project materials or services on a timely basis. Our operations depend on our ability to procure on a timely basis project materials, such as pipe, or project services, such as tugboats for barges, to complete projects in an efficient manner. Our inability to timely procure these resources could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may experience difficulties resolving claims and variation orders, which may adversely affect our cash flows. In the ordinary course of our business, we must negotiate with our clients to resolve claims and change orders. A “claim” is an amount in excess of the agreed contract price (or amount not included in the original contract price) that we seek to collect from our clients or others for client-caused delays, errors in specifications and designs, contract terminations, change orders in dispute or unapproved as to both scope and price, or other causes of unanticipated additional costs. A “change order” is a change to the scope of a project contract, which may be initiated by either us or our client. When a variation to the project scope or specifications is required, it is customary that we continue to execute the project to completion although we may not have precise agreement with our client on the financial responsibilities of all parties. If we are unable to resolve claims and change orders with our client satisfactorily, our profit and cash flow from the project could be adversely affected. Our internal controls may not be sufficient to achieve all stated goals and objectives. Our internal controls and procedures were developed through a process in which our management applied its judgment in assessing the costs and benefits of such controls and procedures, which, by their nature, can provide only reasonable assurance regarding the control objectives. The design of any system of internal controls and procedures is based in part on various assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and public disclosure, which in turn could harm our business. 18 Table of Contents Our use of percentage-of-completion method of accounting could result in volatility in our results of operations. We recognize revenues and profits under our long-term contracts in our segments on a percentage-of-completion basis. Accordingly, we review contract price and cost estimates periodically as the work progresses and reflect adjustments proportionate to the percentage of completion in income in the period when we revise those estimates. To the extent these adjustments result in a reduction or an elimination of previously reported profits with respect to a project, we would recognize a charge against current earnings, which could be material. Our current estimates of our contract costs and the profitability of our long-term projects, although reasonably reliable when made, could change as a result of the uncertainties associated with these types of contracts, and if adjustments to overall contract costs are significant, the reductions or reversals of previously recorded revenue and profits could be material in future periods. We operate in countries where corrupt behavior exists that could impair our ability to do business in the future or result in significant fines or penalties. We and our affiliates operate in countries where governmental corruption has been known to exist. While we are committed to conducting business in a legal and ethical manner, there is a risk of violating either the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) or laws or legislation promulgated pursuant to the 1997 OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions or other applicable anti-corruption regulations that generally prohibit the making of improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. Violation of these laws could result in monetary penalties against us and could damage our reputation and, therefore, our ability to do business. We may experience equipment or mechanical failures, which could increase costs, reduce revenues and result in penalties for failure to meet project completion requirements. The successful execution of contracts requires a high degree of reliability of our vessels, barges and equipment. The average age of our fleet as of December 31, 2010 was 25 years. Breakdowns not only add to the costs of executing a project, but they can also delay the completion of subsequent contracts, which are scheduled to utilize the same assets. We operate a scheduled maintenance program in order to keep all assets in good working order, but despite this, breakdowns can and do occur. The loss of one or more of our senior officers or other key personnel, or our failure to attract, assimilate and retain key personnel in the future, could disrupt our operations and our results of operations could suffer. Our success depends heavily on continued active services of our senior management and key employees. Our officers and key personnel have extensive experience in our industry, so if we were to lose a number of our key employees or executive officers, our operations could suffer from the loss of the knowledge base attributable to these key personnel. Our operations depend substantially on the services of employees having the technical training and experience necessary to obtain the proper operational results. As a result, we require the continuing availability of such personnel. If we should suffer any material loss of personnel or be unable to employ additional or replacement personnel with the requisite level of training and experience to adequately operate our equipment, our operations could be adversely affected. A significant increase in the wages paid or benefits offered by competing employers could result in a reduction in our skilled labor force, increases in our employee costs, or both. If either of these events occur, our operations and results could be materially adversely affected. Our revenues are subject to a significant number of tax regimes, and changes in the tax legislation or the rules implementing tax legislation or the regulator enforcing those rules or legislation in any one of these countries could negatively and adversely affect our results of operations. 19 Table of Contents We operate in many countries and are therefore subject to the jurisdiction of numerous tax authorities, as well as cross-border treaties between governments. Our operations in these countries are taxed on different bases, including net income, net income deemed earned, and revenue based withholding. We determine our tax provision based on our interpretation of enacted local tax laws and existing practices, and use assumptions regarding the tax deductibility of items and recognition of revenue. Changes in these assumptions could affect the amount of income taxes that we provide for any given year and could adversely affect our result of operations. See Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of tax related challenges. Compliance with environmental and other governmental regulations could be costly and could negatively affect our operations. Our vessels and operations are subject to and affected by various types of governmental regulation including many international, federal, state, and local environmental protection laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex and stringent, and compliance may become increasingly difficult and expensive. We may be subject to significant fines and penalties for non-compliance, and some environmental laws impose joint and several “strict liability” for cleaning up spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, regardless of whether we were negligent or at fault. These laws and regulations may expose us to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by others or for our acts that complied with all applicable laws at the time we performed the acts. According to certain scientific studies, emissions of carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide and other gases commonly known as greenhouse gases (“GHG”) may be contributing to global warming of the earth’s atmosphere and to global climate change. In response to the scientific studies, legislative and regulatory initiatives have been underway to limit GHG emissions. The U.S. Supreme Court determined that GHG emissions fall within the federal Clean Air Act (“CAA”) definition of an “air pollutant”, and in response, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency promulgated various regulations related to GHG. Regulation of GHG emissions is highly controversial and further regulatory, legislative and judicial developments are likely to occur. Due to the uncertainties surrounding the regulation of and other risks associated with GHG emissions, the Company cannot predict the financial impact of related developments on the Company. On July 17, 2009, the United States Customs and Border Protection (“CBP”) published a general notice regarding proposed changes in its interpretation of the United States cabotage law generally referred to as the Jones Act or coastwise trade. This notice was withdrawn after the conclusion of the public comment period on the proposed changes to interpretation of law and previous ruling letters issued by CBP. It is not possible at this time to predict whether or when the CBP may republish a revised notice of changes in its interpretation of the Jones Act and previous ruling letters. Significant changes to the interpretation of the Jones Act and previous CBP ruling letters could affect our ability to operate or competitively operate our foreign flagged vessels in the United States and may require us to move certain of our vessels to areas outside of the United States to operate. These regulatory developments and adoption of laws or regulations that have the effect of curtailing exploration and production of oil and natural gas in our areas of operation could adversely affect our operations by reducing demand for our services. In addition, new laws or regulations, or changes to existing laws or regulations may increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our operations. Critical accounting policies significantly affect our reported financial results and conditions. Although our financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, the preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments, such as the estimates used for the cost to complete projects under the percentage-of-completion method of project accounting. These estimates and judgments have a significant effect on the amounts reported in our financial statements. Certain critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates, and these policies are described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial 20 Table of Contents Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates,” included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Actual amounts and results may differ materially from our estimates. We limit our foreign ownership, which could reduce the price of our common stock. Our Articles of Incorporation provide that no more than 25% of our outstanding common stock may be owned by non-United States citizens. These restrictions may at times preclude United States citizens from transferring their common stock to non-United States citizens. These restrictions may also limit the available market for resale of shares of common stock and for the issuance of shares by us and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Provisions in our corporate documents and Louisiana law could delay or prevent a change in control, even if that change would be beneficial to our shareholders. The existence of some provisions in our corporate documents could delay or prevent a change in control, even if that change would be beneficial to our shareholders. Our Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws contain provisions that may make acquiring control of us difficult, including provisions relating to the nomination and removal of our directors, provisions regulating the ability of our shareholders to bring matters for action at annual meetings of our shareholders, and the authorization given to our Board of Directors to issue and set the terms of preferred stock. Louisiana law also effectively limits the ability of a potential acquirer to obtain a written consent of our shareholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 