Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information in this Annual Report, readers should consider carefully the following factors that may affect our future performance. We will need additional capital to fund development and production activities which may not be accessible on attractive terms or at all. For the last several years, we have financed our operations and capital expenditures through the sale of our securities and by borrowing money. Our ability to obtain additional financing will be subject to a number of factors, including market conditions, our operating performance and the terms of our existing indebtedness. We cannot provide assurances that we will be able to raise additional funds on terms favorable to us or at all. If we raise additional funds through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership percentage of existing holders of our common stock will be reduced. In addition, any such transaction may dilute the value of our common stock. We may have to issue securities that have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our common stock. The terms of any additional indebtedness may include restrictive financial and operating covenants that could limit our ability to compete and expand. Our failure to obtain any required future financing could materially and adversely affect our financial condition. Our ability to obtain financing from government grants is subject to the availability of funds under applicable government programs and approval of our applications to participate in such programs. We cannot provide assurances that our efforts to obtain such funds from these government sources will be successful. If we do not obtain adequate short-term working capital and permanent financing, we would have to curtail our development and production activities and adopt an alternative operating model. We have a history of operating losses. We have experienced net operating losses since 1997, and have incurred negative cash flows from operations since 1999. Cash used in operations for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 was $24.1 million and $26.7 million, respectively. We expect that we will continue to incur negative cash flows and require additional cash to fund our operations and implement our business plan. The continued development of our energy-related technology and products will require significant additional capital investment. We may never complete the research and development of commercially viable products. We are developing a number of products that involve new technologies. While we have completed the development of a lithium-ion battery pack for an electric vehicle and a prototype of our lithium-ion battery pack for hybrid electric vehicles, we continue to work on other projects which are in various stages of development including testing new lithium-ion chemistries for automotive, truck, bus, stationary power, military and other applications. We do not know when or whether we will successfully complete research and development of these products. If we are unable to develop commercially viable products, we will not be able to generate sufficient revenue to become profitable. We must complete substantial additional research and development before we will be able to manufacture a commercially viable battery product in commercial quantities. In addition, while we are conducting tests to predict the overall life of our products, we may not have tested our products over their projected useful lives prior to large-scale commercialization. As a result, we cannot be sure that our products will last as long as predicted, and, if they do not, we may incur liability under warranty claims. - 12 - - We have an unproven business plan. We have an unproven business plan and do not expect to be profitable for the next several years. We are developing technologies, products and services related to lithium-ion batteries, fuel cells and nanotechnology. We will face significant challenges, expenses and difficulties as a company seeking to develop and manufacture new products. Viable markets for our products may never develop, may take longer to develop than we anticipate or may not be sustainable. Our energy products and technologies target new and developing markets and we do not know the extent to which these products and technologies will be widely accepted. We currently have one commercially developed product, although we have not yet produced it in commercial quantities. We must be able to develop additional commercially viable products for our business to succeed. If a viable market fails to develop or develops more slowly than we anticipate, we may be unable to recover the losses we will have incurred to develop our products and may be unable to achieve profitability. We will need to develop adequate marketing capabilities in order to sell our products. In addition, the development of a viable market for our products may be impacted by many factors which are partly or totally out of our control, including: · The cost competitiveness of our products · Consumer reluctance to try a new product · Consumer perceptions of our products’ safety · Regulatory requirements · Barriers to entry created by existing energy providers · Government funding of electric vehicle technologies · Emergence of newer, more competitive technologies and products We have no experience manufacturing battery, fuel cell or nanotechnology-based products on a large-scale commercial basis and may be unable to do so. Since 2002, we have focused primarily on research and development and, while we recently acquired a lithium-ion battery cell manufacturer in South Korea, we have no experience manufacturing any of our planned products on a commercial basis. We are developing new battery products that will require high volume battery manufacturing processes and equipment. We have no experience using such equipment for the products we are developing. We do not know whether or when we will be able to develop efficient, low-cost manufacturing capabilities and processes that will enable us to manufacture our products in commercial quantities while meeting the quality, price, engineering, design and production standards required to successfully market our products. Our failure to develop such manufacturing processes and capabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may not meet our development and commercialization milestones. We have established product development and commercialization milestones that we use to assess our progress toward developing commercially viable products. These milestones relate to power, energy capacity, technology and product design as well as to dates for achieving development goals. To gauge our progress, we plan to operate, test and evaluate our products. If our systems or products exhibit performance or technical defects or are unable to meet cost or performance goals, including power output, useful life and reliability, our commercialization schedule could be delayed and potential purchasers of our commercial battery and energy products may decline to purchase them. We cannot provide assurance that we will successfully achieve our milestones in the future or that any failure to achieve these milestones will not result in potential competitors gaining advantages in our target market. Failure to meet our development and commercialization milestones might have a material adverse effect on our operations and our stock price. - 13 - - We may be unable to establish relationships with third parties for aspects of product development, manufacturing, distribution and servicing and the supply of key components for our products. We may need to enter into strategic relationships in order to complete our current product development and commercialization plans. We may also require partners to assist in the distribution, servicing and supply of components for our anticipated fuel cell products in development. If we are unable to identify or enter into satisfactory agreements with potential partners, we may not be able to complete our product development and commercialization plans on schedule or at all. We may also need to scale back these plans in the absence of needed partners, which would adversely affect our future prospects. In addition, any arrangement with a strategic partner may require us to make large cash payments to the partner, issue a significant amount of equity securities to the partner, provide the partner with the opportunity to have representation on our board of directors, agree to exclusive purchase or other arrangements with the partner and/or commit significant financial resources to fund our product development efforts in exchange for their assistance or the contribution to us of intellectual property. Any such issuance of equity securities would reduce the percentage ownership of our then existing shareholders. While we have entered into relationships with suppliers of some key components for our products, we do not know when or whether we will secure supply relationships for all required components and subsystems for our products, or whether such relationships will be on terms that will allow us to achieve our objectives. Our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed if we fail to secure relationships with entities that can develop or supply the required components for our products and provide the required distribution and servicing support. Additionally, the agreements governing our current relationships allow for termination by our partners under some circumstances. We rely on third parties to develop and provide key components for our products. We rely on third–party suppliers to develop and supply key components for our products. If those suppliers fail to develop and supply these components in a timely manner or at all, or fail to develop or supply components that meet our quality, quantity or cost requirements, and we are unable to obtain substitute sources of these components on a timely basis or on terms acceptable to us, we may not be able to manufacture our products. In addition, we may be unable to obtain substitute sources of these components to the extent our suppliers use technology or manufacturing processes that are proprietary. We do not know when or whether we will secure long-term supply relationships with any suppliers or whether such relationships will be on costs and terms that will allow us to achieve our objectives. Our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed if we fail to secure long-term relationships with entities that will supply the required components for our battery and energy related products. Demand for lithium and other raw materials may affect future prices and availability of raw materials. The demand for lithium and other commodities may increase as the projected demand for hybrid and electric vehicles increases which could lead to higher prices for our raw materials. Global supply disruptions caused by political or other dislocations could also lead to shortages and higher prices. The inability to acquire raw materials such as lithium on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, would delay and/or increase the cost of manufacturing our products and result in a significant adverse effect on our profitability. We face high levels of competition and may be unable to compete successfully. The markets in which we intend to market and sell our products are highly competitive. A number of companies located in Asia, the United States and elsewhere are developing and plan to manufacture battery and fuel cell technologies and other energy products that compete with our technologies and planned products. We also face competition from companies that are focused on traditional energy sources, such as oil and natural gas, as well as those that develop alternative energy technologies such as solar power, wind power, ethanol, biofuels and fuel cells. The developers of traditional and alternative energy technologies include, among others, major electric, oil, chemical, natural gas, batteries, generators and specialized electronics firms, as well as universities, research institutions and foreign government-sponsored companies. Many of these entities have substantially greater financial, research and development, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. - 14 - - A significant amount of public and private funding is directed toward the development of traditional and alternative energy generation, distribution and storage. The resulting technologies may render some of our planned products less attractive or obsolete. We intend to offer lithium-ion batteries to the automotive industry, which is a very competitive and cost focused industry. We have no automotive industry experience. Supplying lithium-ion batteries to the automotive industry carries significant risks. We will be competing against much larger suppliers that have greater financial, marketing and other resources; more experience in low cost, high volume manufacturing operations; existing relationships with automotive purchasing and engineering development departments; and increased ability to take advantage of economies of scale in purchasing raw materials than we have. The automotive industry is extremely competitive and competition to supply vehicle components to manufacturers focuses on the power, energy, cost, weight and size of such components. The ability of domestic automobile manufacturers to adopt new battery technologies for EVs, PHEVs and HEVs will depend on many factors outside our control, including their ability to develop related vehicle platforms. If the industry does not accept lithium-ion battery technology, or if our lithium-ion batteries do not meet industry requirements for battery power, energy, cost, weight, size and other characteristics, our batteries will not gain market acceptance. One customer comprises a significant amount of our expected revenue in the near term, and the failure of that customer to continue as an ongoing business is likely to adversely affect our near term profitability and cash flow. On October 15, 2007, we entered into a Supply Agreement with Think Global of Oslo, Norway that, subject to the achievement of certain milestones and conditions, granted to us the opportunity to supply approximately $70 million of lithium-ion battery packs for the Think electric vehicle in 2009 and 2010. Think announced in December 2008 that it needs additional working capital funding in order to continue production of its vehicles and that it was filing for protection from creditors under Norwegian law. Think is a significant potential customer, and a delay in deliveries under or cancellation of the Supply Agreement would adversely affect our expected 2009 and 2010 revenues and profitability and could have a material adverse effect on our business. The U.S. and global automobile industry is experiencing a significant decline in worldwide sales, large losses, and liquidity issues which may affect our future sales and the development of the electric vehicle industry. Our business depends on and is directly affected by the general state of the U.S. and global automobile industry. The effect of the continued economic difficulties of the major auto manufacturers on our business is unclear. It is possible that one or more of these companies may enter into a restructuring, which could be government mandated, privately negotiated, or conducted within the context of bankruptcy proceedings. The impact of any such restructuring on the automobile industry and its suppliers is unclear and difficult to predict. Possible effects could include reduced spending on alternative energy systems for automobiles, a delay in the introduction of new hybrid and electric vehicles, and a delay in the conversion of batteries to lithium-ion chemistry, each of which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Oil prices have been extremely volatile and trends to convert to electric and hybrid electric vehicles may be adversely affected by any perceived significant reduction in gasoline prices. Oil and gasoline prices have been extremely volatile and the possibility of continuing volatility is expected to persist. Drops in gasoline prices lower the perception in government and the private sector that cheaper, more readily available energy alternatives should be developed and produced. Lower oil prices also decrease the cost of existing energy technologies, making them more competitive with alternative products such as lithium-ion batteries. If oil prices remain at deflated levels, the demand for hybrid and electric vehicles may decrease, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. - 15 - - Failure of our planned products to pass testing could negatively impact demand for our planned products. We may encounter difficulties and delays during testing of our planned products for a number of reasons, including the failure of our technology or the technology of third parties. Many of these potential problems and delays are beyond our control. Any problem or perceived problem with test results for our planned products could materially harm our reputation and impair market acceptance of, and demand for, any of our products. Regulatory and other changes in the energy industry may adversely affect our ability to produce, and reduce demand for, our planned products. Federal, state, local and foreign government laws, regulations and policies concerning the energy industry may heavily influence the market for our technologies and products. A change in the current regulatory environment could make it more difficult or costly for us to develop, manufacture or market our products. Any such changes could also deter further investment in the research and development of alternative energy sources, which could significantly reduce demand for our technologies and products. We cannot predict how changes in regulation or other industry changes will affect the market for our products or impact our ability to distribute, install and service our products. We could be liable for environmental damages resulting from our research, development or manufacturing operations. Our business exposes us to the risk that harmful substances may escape into the environment, resulting in personal injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property and natural resources. Our insurance policies may not adequately reimburse us for costs incurred in defending, settling and paying environmental damage claims, and in some instances, we may not be reimbursed at all. Our business is subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations that govern environmental protection and human health and safety. These laws and regulations have changed frequently in the past and it is reasonable to expect there will be additional changes in the future. If our operations do not comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations, we may be required to make significant unanticipated capital and operating expenditures to bring our operations into compliance. If we fail to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations, governmental authorities may seek to impose fines and penalties on us or to revoke or deny the issuance or renewal of operating permits and private parties may seek damages from us. Under those circumstances, we might be required to curtail or cease operations, conduct site remediation or other corrective action, or pay substantial damage claims. Our products may use materials that are inherently dangerous which could subject our business to product liability claims. Our energy technologies and products may use lithium, hydrogen and other combustible materials. Accidents involving our products could materially impede market acceptance and demand for, or heighten regulatory scrutiny of, our products. Damages which we might incur as a result of product liability claims against us could be substantial, beyond the limits of our insurance coverage, and could threaten our survival as a going concern. Future acquisitions may disrupt our business, distract our management and reduce the percentage ownership of our shareholders. As part of our business strategy, we may seek to acquire complementary technologies, products, expertise and/or other valuable assets. We may be unable, however, to identify suitable acquisition candidates or, if we do identify suitable candidates, we may not be able to complete the acquisitions on commercially acceptable terms or at all. If we issue equity securities as part of an acquisition transaction, the percentage ownership of our then current shareholders may be reduced. Once we’ve acquired a business, we may have to devote a significant amount of time and management and financial resources to successfully integrate the business into our existing operations in a timely and non-disruptive manner, and may be unable to do so. An acquisition may not produce the desired revenues, earnings or business synergies that were anticipated prior to concluding the transaction, which could cause our business and financial condition to be materially and adversely affected. As a result of an acquisition, we may incur non-recurring charges and be required to amortize significant amounts of intangible assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations. - 16 - - We may not be able to successfully integrate Enertech. Our future success depends in part on our ability to effectively integrate the operations of Enertech International, Inc., which we acquired in October 2008. The acquisition of Enertech has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our management, operational and financial resources. Realization of the expected benefits of the Enertech acquisition will require integration of Enertech’s sales and marketing, distribution, manufacturing, engineering, finance and administrative operations. If we are unable to successfully complete this integration, we may not realize the expected benefits of the acquisition, including the anticipated increases in Ener1’s manufacturing capabilities and capacity. We may not be able to protect the intellectual property upon which we depend and we could incur substantial costs defending against claims that our products infringe on the proprietary rights of others. Our ability to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technologies, systems designs and manufacturing processes. While we have attempted to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights, we do not know whether we have been or will be completely successful in doing so. We rely on patents, trademarks trade secrets, know-how, and policies and procedures related to confidentiality to protect our intellectual property. However, some of our intellectual property is not covered by any patents or patent applications. Moreover, we do not know whether any of our pending patent applications will issue or, in the case of patents issued or to be issued, that the claims allowed are or will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology or processes. Even if all of our patent applications are issued and are sufficiently broad, our patents may be challenged or invalidated. Moreover, patent applications filed in foreign countries may be subject to laws, rules and procedures that are substantially different from those of the United States, and any resulting foreign patents may be difficult and expensive to enforce. In addition, we do not know whether the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office will grant federal registrations based on our pending trademark applications. Even if federal registrations are granted to us, our trademark rights may be challenged. It is possible that our competitors or others will adopt trademarks similar to ours, thereby impeding our ability to maintain our brand identity and possibly leading to customer confusion. Asserting, defending and maintaining our intellectual property rights could be difficult and costly and failure to do so may diminish our ability to compete effectively and may harm our operating results. We may need to pursue legal action to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and domain names and to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. If third parties prepare and file applications for trademarks used or registered by us, we may oppose those applications and be required to participate in proceedings to determine priority of rights to the trademark. Similarly, competitors may have filed applications for patents, may have received patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights relating to products or technology that block or compete with ours. We may have to participate in interference proceedings to determine the priority of invention and the right to a patent for the technology. Litigation and interference proceedings, even if they are successful, are expensive to pursue and time consuming, and could require the expenditure of a substantial amount of our financial resources. If we are found to be infringing third party proprietary rights, we could be required to pay substantial royalties and/or damages. We do not know whether we will be able to obtain licenses to use the intellectual property at issue on acceptable terms, if at all. Failure to obtain needed licenses could delay or prevent the development, manufacture or sale of our products, and could require the expenditure of significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing intellectual property. We rely, in part, on contractual provisions to protect our trade secrets and proprietary knowledge. Confidentiality agreements to which we are party may be breached, in which case we may not have adequate remedies. Our trade secrets may become publicly available without breach of such agreements or may be independently developed by competitors. Our inability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology and processes could allow our competitors to limit or eliminate any competitive advantages we may have. - 17 - - Our business depends on retaining and attracting highly capable management and operating personnel. Our success depends in large part on our ability to retain and attract qualified management and operating personnel. We require a highly skilled specialized workforce, including scientists, engineers, researchers and manufacturing and marketing professionals, individuals who are in high demand and are often subject to competing offers. To retain and attract key personnel, we use various measures, including employment agreements, a stock incentive plan and incentive bonuses for key employees. These measures may not be enough to retain and attract the personnel we need or to offset the impact on our business of the loss of the services of key officers or employees. We could face difficulty hiring and retaining qualified senior executives. We face risks associated with our plans to market, distribute and service our products internationally. We have limited experience developing and no experience manufacturing or distributing products that will be sold in the U.S. or international markets. Our success in international markets will depend, in part, on our ability to secure relationships with foreign sub-distributors, and to manufacture products that meet foreign regulatory and commercial standards. International operations are subject to other inherent risks, including potential difficulties in enforcing contractual obligations and intellectual property rights in foreign countries and fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Government contracts could restrict our ability to commercialize our technology effectively. Contracts we enter into with government agencies are subject to the risk of termination at the convenience of the contracting agency and potential disclosure of our confidential information to third parties. Under the Freedom of Information Act, any documents that we have submitted to the government or to a contractor under a government funding arrangement may be subject to public disclosure which could compromise our intellectual property rights unless these documents are exempted as trade secrets or as confidential information, appropriately legended by us, and treated accordingly by such government agencies. As a government contractor, we must comply with and are affected by federal government regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of government contracts. These regulations will affect how we do business with our customers and may impose added costs on our business. Any failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in contract termination, price or fee reductions or suspension or debarment from contracting with the federal government. Federal government agencies routinely audit government contracts. These agencies review a contractor’s performance on its contract, pricing practices, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. These audits may occur several years after completion of the audited work. An audit could result in a substantial adjustment to our revenues because any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, while improper costs already reimbursed must be refunded. If a government audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from doing business with federal government agencies. In addition, our reputation could be harmed if allegations of impropriety were made against us. We may be unable to manage rapid growth effectively. We expect to expand our manufacturing capabilities, accelerate the commercialization of our products and enter a period of growth, all of which will place a significant strain on our senior management team and our financial and other resources. Our proposed expansion will expose us to increased competition, greater overhead, marketing and support costs and other risks associated with the commercialization of a new product. Our ability to manage our growth effectively will require us to continue to improve our operations and our financial and management information systems and to train, motivate and manage our employees. Difficulties in effectively managing the budgeting, forecasting and other process control issues presented by such a rapid expansion could harm our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. - 18 - - Our stock price has been and could remain volatile. The market price of our common stock has historically experienced and may continue to experience significant volatility. Our progress in developing and commercializing our products, our quarterly operating results, announcements of new products by us or our competitors, our perceived prospects, changes in securities analysts’ recommendations or earnings estimates, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets, adverse events related to our strategic relationships and other developments affecting us or our competitors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, in recent years, the stock market, and in particular the market for technology-related stocks has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has affected the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance and may adversely affect the price of our common stock. In addition, we may be subject to additional securities class action litigation as a result of volatility in the price of our common stock, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of management’s attention and resources and could harm our stock price, business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Credit market volatility and illiquidity may affect our ability to raise capital to finance our operations, plant expansion and growth. The credit markets have experienced extreme volatility during the last year, and worldwide credit markets have remained illiquid despite injections of capital by the Federal government and foreign governments. Despite the capital injections and government actions, banks and other lenders, such as equipment leasing companies, have significantly increased credit requirements and reduced the amounts available to borrowers. Companies with low credit ratings may not have access to the debt markets until the liquidity improves, if at all. If current credit market conditions do not improve, we may not be able to access debt or leasing markets to finance our plant expansion plans. We may be unable to access the equity capital markets. The equity markets have experienced significant and rapid declines in values during the last year, and institutional investors have experienced large losses. In addition, many mutual funds and hedge funds need to maintain high levels of liquidity to meet redemption demands. As a result of the loss or restriction of funds for investment, the market for sales of our stock may be limited. Future sales of our common stock may adversely affect our common stock price. If a large number of shares of our common stock is sold in the public market or if we issue a large number of shares in connection with future acquisitions or financings, particularly if we issue shares at a discount to the then current market price, the price of our common stock could decline significantly. Our certificate of incorporation and Florida law could adversely affect our common stock price. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and Florida law could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control of us. These provisions could diminish the opportunities for a shareholder to participate in tender offers, including tender offers at a price above the then current market value of our common stock. These provisions may also inhibit fluctuations in the market price of our common stock that could result from takeover attempts. In addition, the Board of Directors, without further shareholder approval, may issue additional series of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control. The issuance of additional series of preferred stock could also adversely affect the voting power of the holders of common stock, including the loss of voting control to others. - 19 - - Our principal shareholder has substantial control over our affairs. Ener1 Group, Inc. beneficially owns a majority of our outstanding common stock. Two executives and members of Ener1 Group’s board are also executives, including the Chief Executive Officer and President, and members of our Board of Directors. Ener1 Group has the ability to control virtually all matters submitted to a vote of the shareholders of Ener1, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, Ener1 Group, through its ability to elect a majority of the members of our Board of Directors, may dictate the management of our business and affairs. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination which other shareholders may view favorably. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the SEC that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our fiscal year 2008 that remain unresolved. Item 