ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following section includes some of the material factors that may adversely affect our business and operations. This is not an exhaustive list, and additional factors could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all such risk factors, nor can we assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. This discussion of risk factors includes many forward-looking statements. For cautions about relying on such forward looking statements, please refer to the section entitled “Forward Looking Statements” at the beginning of this Report immediately prior to Item 1. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of losses and may never become profitable. In each of our last five years, we have experienced significant net losses and negative cash flows from operations. In 2011, we incurred a net loss of $13.4 million and had negative cash flows from operations of $10.0 million. In 2010, we incurred a net loss of $12.0 million and had negative cash flows from operations of $9.4 million. Our independent registered public accounting firm has included in its audit reports an explanatory paragraph expressing doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. If we fail to increase our revenues, we may not achieve and maintain profitability and may not meet our expectations or the expectations of financial analysts who report on our stock. We need to raise additional capital, and if we are unable to raise capital our ability to implement our current business plan and ultimately our viability as a company could be adversely affected At December 31, 2011 we had $6.2 million in cash and cash equivalents. Our cash resources may not be sufficient to fund our business for at least the next twelve months. We believe the key factors to our future liquidity will be our ability to successfully use our expertise and our technology to generate revenues in various ways, including commercial operations, government contracts, joint ventures and licenses. Because of the uncertainty of these factors, we may need to raise funds to meet our working capital needs. Additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. If we issue additional equity securities to raise funds, the ownership percentage of our existing stockholders would be reduced. New investors may demand rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of common stock and could also require that we issue warrants in connection with sales of our stock. If we cannot raise any needed funds, we might be forced to make further substantial reductions in our operating expenses, which could adversely affect our ability to implement our current business plan and ultimately our viability as a company. Our strategic initiative to develop a new wire platform may not prove to be successful. We have spent a considerable amount of resources in developing a new wire platform for power applications. Substantial technical and business challenges remain before we have a commercially successful product introduction. We may not be able to overcome these challenges in a timely or cost effective manner, if at all. Such a failure could adversely impact our prospects, liquidity and stock price. There are numerous technological challenges that must be overcome in order for our HTS wire to become commercially successful and our ability to address such technological challenges may adversely affect our ability to gain customers. Our superconducting wire product is in the middle stages of development, and in the early stages of commercialization. There are a number of technological challenges to overcome for broad commercialization of 8 Table of Contents HTS wire. First, the current HTS wire market is supply constrained. Current producers cannot manufacture sufficient wire to meet demand; customers cannot purchase long-length wire with any reasonable confidence or guaranteed volume; and electric utilities lack confidence in product availability which leads to delays in their deployment roadmap. Secondly, HTS wire performance is currently below what many customers require. Many power applications require high performance wire with high current carrying capacity, mechanical durability, electrical integrity with low AC losses and minimal splices. Producing high performance HTS wire has proven difficult, especially at volumes required for large scale deployment. Thirdly, high demand for premium performance wire available in very low volume results in a high wire price that narrows the market and limits commercial viability. Delays in our HTS wire development, as a result of technological challenges or other factors, may result in the introduction or commercial acceptance of our HTS wire products later than expected. The commercial uses of superconducting wire and superconducting wire related products are limited today, and a board commercial market may not develop. Even if the technological hurdles are overcome, there is no certainty that a robust commercial market for unproven HTS wire products will come to fruition. To date, commercial use of HTS wire has been limited to small feasibility demonstrations, and these projects are largely subsidized by government authorities. While customer demand is high and market forecasts project large revenue opportunity for superconducting wire in power applications, the market may not develop and superconducting wire might never achieve long term, broad commercialization. In such an event, we would not be able to implement our business could be adversely impacted. We have limited experience marketing and selling superconducting wire products, and our failure to effectively market and sell our superconducting wire solutions would lower our revenue and cash flow. We have little experience marketing and selling our superconducting wire. Once our superconducting wire is ready for commercial use, we will have to hire and develop a marketing and sales team that will effectively demonstrate the advantages of our product over both more traditional products and competing superconducting products or other adjacent technologies. We may not be successful in our efforts to market this new technology. We rely on a small group of customers for the majority of our commercial wireless revenues, and the loss of any one of these customers could adversely affect our business. We sell most of our products to a small number of wireless carriers. We derived 96% of our commercial product revenues from Verizon Wireless and AT&T in 2011 and 92% in 2010 and 2009. Our future commercial wireless revenue depends upon the wireless carriers continuing to purchase our products, and fluctuations in demand from such customers could negatively impact our results. Many of our customers also provide minimal lead-time prior to the release of their purchase orders and have non-binding commitments to purchase from us. If we fail to forecast our customer’s demands accurately, we could experience delays in manufacturing, which could result in customer dissatisfaction. Additionally, these factors further impact our ability to forecast future revenue. In addition the market for HTS wire would also consist of a small number of customers. We expect decreases in average selling prices, requiring us to reduce product costs in order to achieve and maintain profitability. We face pressure to reduce prices and accordingly, the average selling price of our existing products has decreased over the years. We anticipate customer pressure on our product pricing will continue for the foreseeable future. In our HTS wire initiative, wire is currently being sold at $250- 400/kiloampere-meter (kA-m). At this price, HTS wire represents more than half the cost of the end device. A price reduction is 9 Table of Contents required for long term commercialization. Cryogenic systems, including cryocoolers and cryostats, have been developed but will also need to be cost optimized as HTS wire becomes available in volume. We have plans to further reduce the manufacturing cost of our products, but there is no assurance that our future cost reduction efforts will keep pace with price erosion. We will need to further reduce our manufacturing costs through engineering improvements and economies of scale in production and purchasing in order to achieve adequate gross margins. We may not be able to achieve the required product cost savings at a rate needed to keep pace with competitive pricing pressure. Additionally, we may be forced to discount future orders. If we fail to reach our cost saving objectives or we are required to offer future discounts, our business may be harmed. We face competition with respect to various aspects of our technology and product development. Our current wireless products compete on the basis of performance, functionality, reliability, pricing, quality, and compliance with industry standards. With respect to our HTS materials, we compete with American Superconductor, SuperPower and THEVA, among others. Our current and potential wireless competitors include conventional RF filter manufacturers, CommScope, Powerwave, and RFS and both established and newly emerging companies developing similar or competing HTS technologies. In addition, we currently supply components and license technology to several companies that may eventually decide to manufacture or design their own HTS components, rather than purchasing or licensing our technology. If we are unable to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, then our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. We may not be able to compete effectively against alternative technologies. Our products also compete with a number of alternative approaches and technologies. Some of these alternatives may be more cost effective or offer better performance than our products and we may not succeed in competing against these alternatives. We currently rely on specific technologies and may not successfully adapt to the rapidly changing market environments. We must overcome technical challenges to commercialize our HTS wire. If we are able to so, we will need to attain customer acceptance of our HTS wire, and we cannot ensure that such acceptance will occur. We will have to continue to develop and integrate advances to our core technologies. We will also need to continue to develop and integrate advances in complementary technologies. We cannot guarantee that our development efforts will not be rendered obsolete by research efforts and technological advances made by others. Wireless telecommunication equipment is characterized by rapidly advancing technology. Our wireless business success depends upon our ability to keep pace with advancing wireless technology, including materials, processes and industry standards. We experience significant fluctuations in sales and operating results from quarter to quarter. Our quarterly results fluctuate due to a number of factors, including: • the lack of any contractual obligation by our customers to purchase their forecasted demand for our products; • variations in the timing, cancellation, or rescheduling of customer orders and shipments; and • high fixed expenses that may disproportionately impact operating expenses, especially during a quarter with a sales shortfall. The nature of our business requires that we promptly ship products after we receive orders. This means that we typically do not have a significant backlog of unfilled orders at the start of each quarter. Our major customers 10 Table of Contents generally have no contractual obligation to purchase forecasted amounts and may cancel orders, change delivery schedules or change the mix of products ordered with minimal notice and minimal penalty. As a result of these factors, we may not be able to accurately predict our quarterly sales. Any shortfall in sales relative to our quarterly expectations or any delay of customer orders would adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Order deferrals and cancellations by our customers, declining average sales prices, changes in the mix of products sold, increases in inventory and finished goods, delays in the introduction of new products and longer than anticipated sales cycles for our products have, in the past, adversely affected our results of operations. Despite these factors, we maintain significant finished goods, work-in-progress and raw materials inventory to meet estimated order forecasts. If our customers purchase less than the forecasted amounts or cancel or delay existing purchase orders, there will be higher levels of inventory that face a greater risk of obsolescence. If our customers desire to purchase products in excess of the forecasted amounts or in a different product mix, there may not be enough inventory or manufacturing capacity to fill their orders. Due to these and other factors, our past results may not be reliable indicators of our future performance. Future revenues and operating results may not meet the expectations of stock analysts and investors. In either case, the price of our common stock could be materially adversely affected. We depend on the capital spending patterns of our customers, and if capital spending is decreased or delayed, our business may be harmed. Any substantial decrease or delay in capital spending patterns from our customers may harm our business. Demand from customers for our products depends to a significant degree upon the amount and timing of capital spending by these customers for constructing, rebuilding or upgrading their systems. Their capital spending patterns depend on a variety of factors, including access to financing, the status of federal, local and foreign government regulation and deregulation, overall demand, competitive pressures and general economic conditions. In addition, capital spending patterns can be subject to some degree of seasonality, with lower levels of spending in the first and third calendar quarters, based on annual budget cycles. The current worldwide uncertainty may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The United States and global economies continue to experience a financial downturn, with some financial and economic analysts predicting that the global economy may be entering into a prolonged economic downturn characterized by high unemployment, limited availability of credit, increased rates of default and bankruptcy and decreased consumer and business spending. These developments could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition in a number of ways. For example, current or potential customers may delay or decrease spending with us or may not pay us, or may delay paying us for previously purchased products. In addition, this downturn has had, and may continue to have, an unprecedented negative impact on the global credit markets. Credit has tightened significantly, resulting in financing terms that are less attractive to borrowers, and in many cases, the unavailability of certain types of debt financing. If this crisis continues or worsens, and if we are required to obtain financing in the near term to meet our working capital or other business needs, we may not be able obtain that financing. Further, even if we are able to obtain the financing we need, it may be on terms that are not favorable to us, with increased financing costs and restrictive covenants. Our reliance on a limited number of suppliers and the long lead time of components for our products could impair our ability to manufacture and deliver our systems on a timely basis. A number of components used in our products are available from a limited number of outside suppliers due to unique designs as well as certain quality and performance requirements. There are components that we source from a single vendor due to the present volume. In addition, key components of our conventional products are 11 Table of Contents manufactured by a sole foreign manufacturer. Our reliance on sole or limited source suppliers involves certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. These include the possibility of a shortage or the discontinuation of certain key components. Any reduced availability of these parts or components when required could impair our ability to manufacture and deliver our systems on a timely basis and result in the delay or cancellation of orders, which could harm our business. In addition, the purchase of some of our key components involves long lead times and, in the event of unanticipated increases in demand for our solutions, we may be unable to obtain these components in sufficient quantities to meet our customers’ requirements. We do not have guaranteed supply arrangements with any of these suppliers, do not maintain an extensive inventory of parts or components and customarily purchase sole or limited source parts and components pursuant to purchase orders. Business disruptions, quality issues, production shortfalls or financial difficulties of a sole or limited source supplier could materially and adversely affect us by increasing product costs, or eliminating or delaying the availability of such parts or components. In such events, our inability to develop alternative sources of supply quickly and on a cost-effective basis could impair our ability to manufacture and deliver our systems on a timely basis and could harm our business. Our reliance on a limited number of suppliers exposes us to quality control issues. Our reliance on certain single-source and limited-source components exposes us to quality control issues if these suppliers experience a failure in their production process or otherwise fail to meet our quality requirements. A failure in single-source or limited-source components or products could force us to repair or replace a product utilizing replacement components. If we cannot obtain comparable replacements or effectively return or redesign our products, we could lose customer orders or incur additional costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our gross margins and results of operations. Our ability to protect our patents and other proprietary rights is uncertain, exposing us to possible losses of competitive advantage. Our efforts to protect our proprietary rights may not succeed in preventing infringement by others or ensure that these rights will provide us with a competitive advantage. Pending patent applications may not result in issued patents and the validity of issued patents may be subject to challenge. Third parties may also be able to design around the patented aspects of the products. Additionally, certain of the issued patents and patent applications are owned jointly with third parties. Because any owner or co-owner of a patent can license its rights under jointly-owned patents or applications, inventions made by us jointly with others are not subject to our exclusive control. Any of these possible events could result in losses of competitive advantage. We depend on specific patents and licenses to technologies, and we will likely need additional technologies in the future that we may not be able to obtain. We utilize technologies under licenses of patents from others for our products. These patents may be subject to challenge, which may result in significant litigation expense (which may or may not be recoverable against future royalty obligations). Additionally, we continually try to develop new products, and, in the course of doing so, we may be required to utilize intellectual property rights owned by others and may seek licenses to do so. Such licenses may not be obtainable on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. It is also possible that we may inadvertently utilize intellectual property rights held by others, which could result in substantial claims. Intellectual property infringement claims against us could materially harm results of operations. Our products incorporate a number of technologies, including high-temperature superconductor technology, technology related to other materials, and electronics technologies. Our patent positions, and that of other companies using high-temperature superconductor technology, is uncertain and there is significant risk that 12 Table of Contents others, including our competitors or potential competitors, have obtained or will obtain patents relating to our products or technologies or products or technologies planned to be introduced by us. We believe that patents may be or have been issued, or applications may be pending, claiming various compositions of matter used in our products. We may need to secure one or more licenses of these patents. There can be no assurances that such licenses could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We may be required to expend significant resources to develop alternatives that would not infringe such patents or to obtain licenses to the related technology. We may not be able to successfully design around these patents or obtain licenses to them and may have to defend ourselves at substantial cost against allegations of infringement of third party patents or other rights to intellectual property. In those circumstances, we could face significant liabilities and also be forced to cease the use of key technology. Other parties may have the right to utilize technology important to our business. We utilize certain intellectual property rights under non-exclusive licenses or have granted to others the right to utilize certain intellectual property rights licensed from a third party. Because we may not have the exclusive rights to utilize such intellectual property, other parties may be able to compete with us, which may harm our business. Because competition for target employees is intense, we may be subject to claims of unfair hiring practices, trade secret misappropriation or other related claims. Companies in the wireless telecommunications industry whose employees accept positions with competitors frequently claim that competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices, trade secret misappropriation or other related claims. We may be subject to such claims in the future as we seek to hire qualified personnel, and such claims may result in material litigation. If this should occur, we could incur substantial costs in defending against these claims, regardless of their merits. Our success depends on the attraction and retention of senior management and technical personnel with relevant expertise. As a competitor in a highly technical market, we depend heavily upon the efforts of our existing senior management and technical teams. The loss of the services of one or more members of these teams could slow product development and commercialization objectives. Due to the specialized nature of our products, we also depend upon our ability to attract and retain qualified technical personnel with substantial industry knowledge and expertise. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we may not be able to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. Regulatory changes could substantially harm our business. Certain regulatory agencies in the United States and other countries set standards for operations within their territories. Equipment marketed for use within their territories must meet specific technical standards. Our ability to sell our products is impacted by regulatory changes and requirements and depends on the ability of our customers to obtain and retain the necessary approvals and licenses. HTS wire is subject to a regulatory regime, which may become more strictly regulated. Any failure or delay in obtaining necessary approvals could harm our business. We may acquire or make investments in companies or technologies that could cause loss of value to stockholders and disruption of business. We may explore opportunities to acquire companies or technologies in the future. Other than the acquisition of Conductus, Inc. in 2002, we have not made any such acquisitions or investments to date and, therefore, our 13 Table of Contents ability as an organization to make acquisitions or investments is unproven. An acquisition entails many risks, any of which could adversely affect our business, including: • failure to integrate operations, services and personnel; • the price paid may exceed the value eventually realized; • loss of share value to existing stockholders as a result of issuing equity securities to finance an acquisition; • potential loss of key employees from either our then current business or any acquired business; • entering into markets in which we have little or no prior experience; • diversion of financial resources and management’s attention from other business concerns; • assumption of unanticipated liabilities related to the acquired assets; and • the business or technologies acquired or invested in may have limited operating histories and may be subjected to many of the same risks to which we are exposed. In addition, future acquisitions may result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses or charges related to goodwill or other intangible assets, any of which could harm our business. As a result, if we fail to properly evaluate and execute acquisitions or investments, our business and prospects may be seriously harmed. If we are unable to implement appropriate controls and procedures to manage our potential growth, we may not be able to successfully offer our products and implement our business plan. Our ability to successfully offer our products and implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning and management process. Growth in future operations would place a significant strain on management systems and resources. We expect that we would need to improve our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures, and would need to expand, train and manage our work force worldwide. Furthermore, we expect that we would be required to manage multiple relationships with various customers and other third parties. Compliance with environmental regulations could be especially costly due to the hazardous materials used in the manufacturing process. In addition, we could incur expenditures related to hazardous material accidents. We are subject to a number of federal, state and local governmental regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in our business. Current or future laws and regulations could require substantial expenditures for preventative or remedial action, reduction of chemical exposure, waste treatment or disposal. Any failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines being imposed, suspension of production or interruption of operations. In addition, these regulations could restrict our ability to expand or could require us to acquire costly equipment or incur other significant expense to comply with environmental regulations or to clean up prior discharges. In addition, although we believe that our safety procedures for the handling and disposing of hazardous materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, there is always the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. To date, we have not incurred substantial expenditures for preventive action with respect to hazardous materials or for remedial action with respect to any hazardous materials accident, but the use and disposal of hazardous materials involves risk that we could incur substantial expenditures for such preventive or remedial actions. If such an accident were to occur, we could be held liable for resulting damages. The liability in the event of an accident or the costs of such remedial actions could exceed our resources or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 14 Table of Contents The reliability of market data included in our public filings is uncertain. Since we operate in a rapidly changing market, we have in the past, and may from time to time in the future, include market data from industry publications and our own internal estimates in some of the documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The reliability of this data cannot be assured. Industry publications generally state that the information contained in these publications has been obtained from sources believed to be reliable, but that its accuracy and completeness is not guaranteed. Although we believe that the market data used in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission is and will be reliable, it has not been independently verified. Similarly, internal company estimates, while believed by us to be reliable, have not been verified by any independent sources. Our international operations expose us to certain risks. In 2007, we formed a joint venture with BAOLI to manufacture and sell our SuperLink interference elimination solution in China. In additional to facing many of the risks faced by our domestic business, if that joint venture or any other international operation we may have is to be successful, we (together with any joint venture partner) must recruit the necessary personnel and develop the facilities needed to manufacture and sell the products involved, learn about the local market (which may be significantly different from our domestic market), build brand awareness among potential customers and compete successfully with local organizations with greater market knowledge and potentially greater resources than we have. We must also obtain a number of critical governmental approvals from both the United States and the local country governments on a timely basis, including those related to any transfers of our technology. We must establish sufficient controls on any foreign operations to ensure that those operations are operated in accordance with our interests, that our intellectual property is protected and that our involvement does not inadvertently create potential competitors. There can be no assurance that these conditions will be met. Even if they are met, the process of building our international operations could divert financial resources and management attention from other business concerns. Finally, our international operations will also be subject to the general risks of international operations, such as: • changes in exchange rates; • international political and economic conditions; • changes in government regulation in various countries; • trade barriers; • adverse tax consequences; and • costs associated with expansion into new territories. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price is volatile. The market price of our common stock has been, and we expect will continue to be, subject to significant volatility. The value of our common stock may decline regardless of our operating performance or prospects. Factors affecting our market price include: • our perceived prospects; • progress or any lack of progress(or perceptions related to progress) in timely overcoming the remaining substantial technical and commercial challenges related to our HTS wire initiative; • variations in our operating results and whether we have achieved key business targets; • changes in, or our failure to meet, earnings estimates; • changes in securities analysts’ buy/sell recommendations; 15 Table of Contents • differences between our reported results and those expected by investors and securities analysts; • announcements of new contracts by us or our competitors; • market reaction to any acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic investments announced by us or our competitors; and • general economic, political or stock market conditions. Recent events have caused stock prices for many companies, including ours, to fluctuate in ways unrelated or disproportionate to their operating performance. The general economic, political and stock market conditions that may affect the market price of our common stock are beyond our control. The market price of our common stock at any particular time may not remain the market price in the future. If we fail to maintain the listing of our common stock with a U.S. national securities exchange, the liquidity of our common stock could be adversely affected. Under Nasdaq’s Marketplace Rule 5450(a)(1), if the bid price for our common stock, over 30 consecutive business days, closes below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued listing , we could be subject to delisting. Our stock price is currently less than $1.00. In accordance with Nasdaq’s Marketplace Rule 5810(c)(3)(A), if we were to receive notice of potential delisting, we would have a period of 180 calendar days to regain compliance. We will continue to monitor the bid price for our common stock and if necessary, consider various options available to us if our common stock does not trade at a level that is likely to remain in compliance with Rule 5450(a)(1). If we fail to maintain our listing with any U.S. national securities exchange, our common stock may become more difficult for investors to trade, potentially leading to declines in our stock price. We have a significant number of outstanding warrants and options, and future sales of the shares obtained upon exercise of these options or warrants could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2011, we had outstanding options exercisable for an aggregate of 735,701 shares of common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $6.64 per share. In February 2012, we sold warrants to purchase up to 5,033,414 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $1.35 per share. The warrants are exercisable at any time but not prior to the six-month anniversary of the issuance of the warrants and have a five-year term. We have registered the issuance of all the shares issuable upon exercise of the options and warrants, and they will be freely tradable by the exercising party upon issuance. The holders may sell these shares in the public markets from time to time, without limitations on the timing, amount or method of sale. As our stock price rises, the holders may exercise their warrants and options and sell a large number of shares. This could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our corporate governance structure may prevent our acquisition by another company at a premium over the public trading price of our shares. It is possible that the acquisition of a majority of our outstanding voting stock by another company could result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the public trading price for our shares. Provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and of Delaware corporate law could delay or make more difficult an acquisition of our company by merger, tender offer or proxy contest, even if it would create an immediate benefit to our stockholders. For example, our restated certificate of incorporation does not permit stockholders to act by written consent, and our bylaws generally require ninety days advance notice of any matters to be brought before the stockholders at an annual or special meeting. In addition, our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the terms, rights and preferences of this preferred stock, including voting rights of those shares, 16 Table of Contents without any further vote or action by the stockholders. At March 10, 2012, 1,388,477 shares of preferred stock remained unissued. The rights of the holders of common stock may be subordinate to, and adversely affected by, the rights of holders of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock could also make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock, even at a premium over our public trading price. Further, our certificate of incorporation also provides for a classified board of directors with directors divided into three classes serving staggered terms. These provisions may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us without action by our stockholders and, therefore, could adversely affect the price of our stock or the possibility of sale of shares to an acquiring person. We do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends on our common stock. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not plan to pay any cash dividends in the near future. Our current policy is to retain all funds and earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 