Item 1A. Risk Factors There are numerous and varied risks and uncertainties, known and unknown, that may prevent us from achieving our goals. The risks described below are not the only ones we will face. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock may be materially and adversely affected. We will need additional capital to fund our development and production activities which may not be accessible on attractive terms or at all. For the last several years, we have financed our operations and capital expenditures through the sale of our securities and by borrowing money. Our ability to obtain additional financing will be subject to a number of factors, including market conditions, commercial acceptance of our products, our operating performance and the terms of our existing indebtedness. We cannot assure you that we will be able to raise additional funds on terms favorable to us or at all. If we raise additional funds through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, your ownership percentage of our common stock will be reduced. In addition, any such transaction may dilute the value of our common stock. We may have to issue securities that have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our common stock. The terms of any additional indebtedness may include restrictive financial and operating covenants that would limit our ability to compete and expand. Our failure to obtain any required future financing could materially and adversely affect our financial condition. Our ability to obtain financing from government grants is subject to the availability of funds under applicable government programs and approval of our applications to participate in such programs. We cannot assure you that our efforts to obtain such funds from these government sources will be successful. If we do not obtain adequate short-term working capital and long-term financing, we would have to curtail our development and production activities and adopt an alternative operating model to continue as a going concern. - 12 - - We have a history of operating losses. We have experienced operating losses since 1997, and have incurred negative cash flows from operations since 1999. Cash used in operations for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $40.7 million, $24.1 million and $26.7 million, respectively. We expect that we will continue to incur negative operating cash flows and require additional cash to fund our operations and implement our business plan. The continued development of our technology and products will require significant additional capital investment. We may never complete the research and development of commercially viable products. We are developing a number of products that involve new technologies. While we have substantially completed the development of a lithium-ion battery pack for an electric vehicle and a prototype of our lithium-ion battery pack for hybrid electric vehicles, we continue to work on other projects which are in various stages of development including testing new lithium-ion chemistries for automotive, truck, bus, stationary power, military and other applications. We do not know when or whether we will successfully complete research and development of our products. If we are unable to develop commercially viable products, we will not be able to generate sufficient revenue to become profitable. We must complete substantial additional research and development in connection with these other projects before we will be able to manufacture a commercially viable battery product in commercial quantities. In addition, while we are conducting tests to predict the overall life of our products, we may not have tested our products over their projected useful lives prior to large-scale commercialization. As a result, we cannot be sure that our products will last as long as predicted, and, if they do not, we may incur liability under warranty claims. If we are unable to develop, manufacture and market products that improve upon existing battery technology and gain market acceptance, our business may be adversely affected. We are researching, developing, manufacturing and selling lithium-ion batteries and battery systems. The market for advanced rechargeable batteries is at a relatively early stage of development, and the extent to which our lithium-ion batteries will be able to meet our customers' requirements and achieve significant market acceptance is uncertain. Rapid and ongoing changes in technology and product standards could quickly render our products less competitive, or even obsolete if we fail to continue to improve the performance of our battery chemistry and systems. Other companies that are seeking to enhance traditional battery technologies have recently introduced or are developing batteries based on nickel metal-hydride, liquid lithium-ion and other emerging and potential technologies. These competitors are engaged in significant development work on these various battery systems. One or more new, higher energy rechargeable battery technologies could be introduced which could be directly competitive with, or superior to, our technology. The capabilities of many of these competing technologies have improved over the past several years. Competing technologies that outperform our batteries could be developed and successfully introduced, and as a result, there is a risk that our products may not be able to compete effectively in our target markets. If our battery technology is not adopted by our customers, or if our battery technology does not meet industry requirements for power and energy storage capacity in an efficient and safe design our batteries may not gain market acceptance. Our working capital requirements involve estimates based on demand expectations and may decrease or increase beyond those currently anticipated, which could harm our operating results and financial condition. In order to fulfill the product delivery requirements of our customers, we plan for working capital needs in advance of customer orders. As a result, we base our funding and inventory decisions on estimates of future demand. If demand for our products does not increase as quickly as we have estimated or drops off sharply, our inventory and expenses could rise, and our business and operating results could suffer. Alternatively, if we experience sales in excess of our estimates, our working capital needs may be higher than those currently anticipated. Our ability to meet this excess customer demand depends on our ability to arrange for additional financing for any ongoing working capital shortages, since it is possible that cash flow from sales will lag behind these investment requirements. We have an unproven business plan. We have an unproven business plan and do not expect to be profitable for the next several years. We are developing technologies, products and services related to lithium-ion batteries, fuel cells and nanotechnology. Before investing in our securities, you should consider the challenges, expenses and difficulties that we will face as a company seeking to develop and manufacture new products. Viable markets for our products may never develop, may take longer to develop than we anticipate or may not be sustainable. Our energy products and technologies target new and developing markets and we do not know the extent to which these products and technologies will be widely accepted. We currently have one commercially developed product, although we have not yet produced it in commercial quantities. We must be able to develop additional commercially viable products for our business to succeed. If a viable market fails to develop or develops more slowly than we anticipate, we may be unable to recover the losses we will have incurred to develop our products and may be unable to achieve profitability. We will need to develop adequate marketing capabilities in order to sell our products. In addition, the development of a viable market for our products may be impacted by many factors which are partly or totally out of our control, including: · the cost competitiveness of our products · consumer reluctance to try a new product · consumer perceptions of our products’ safety · regulatory requirements · barriers to entry created by existing energy providers · government funding of electric vehicle technologies · emergence of newer, more competitive technologies and products - 13 - - We have limited experience manufacturing battery, fuel cell or nanotechnology-based products on a large-scale commercial basis and may be unable to do so. Since 2002, we have focused primarily on research and development and, while we recently acquired a lithium-ion battery cell manufacturer in South Korea, we have no experience manufacturing any of our planned products on a commercial basis. We are developing new battery products that will require battery manufacturing processes and equipment. We have no experience using such equipment for the products we are developing. We do not know whether or when we will be able to develop efficient, low-cost manufacturing capabilities and processes that will enable us to manufacture our products in commercial quantities while meeting the quality, price, engineering, design, and production standards required to successfully market our products. Our failure to develop such manufacturing processes and capabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We are expanding our equipment production capacity worldwide and are subject to all of the risks associated with purchasing, installing and efficiently operating such equipment as well as achieving production economies from projected increased efficiencies. We have begun purchasing new equipment to increase our production capacity in the United States, which is partially funded under grants from the DOE. Noncompliance with DOE protocols would delay or eliminate reimbursement of certain costs. If the related program is ended, we could relinquish control of the assets to the DOE. While we have constrained the level of purchases in the first year of the grant, we expect during the next three years to purchase a substantial amount of equipment. The equipment procurement process and installation and integration of the equipment is subject to delays. Achieving rated capacities of such equipment is subject to additional risks and the equipment may never reach the projected capacity. Some of the assembly equipment is recently designed by our engineers and manufactured to our specifications by independent equipment manufacturers, and achieving projected machine efficiencies is dependent upon the equipment operating as designed. In addition, our competitors may be purchasing equipment similar or identical to our manufacturing equipment, and as a result of the increase demand for such equipment, there may be shortages of required equipment or delays in our receipt of equipment, which could result in delays in our production schedules. Delays in the start-up of production could adversely impact our financial results. Delays in production deliveries also could adversely impact the financial results of our customers because of delays in the delivery of vehicles to their customers. Failure to reach projected machine efficiencies could result in higher production costs than planned and therefore could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. We are entering a new industry and increasing our production substantially to meet new and potential customer requirements and are subject to all of the risks associated with increasing production activities. We are beginning production in a new industry with new processes and our ability to achieve profitability is dependent upon achieving lower costs of materials and projected economies of scale from increasing manufacturing quantities, and failing to achieve such economies of scale and reduction in manufacturing costs could materially adversely affect our financial performance. We are beginning high volume production of new products in a new industry that does not have a significant history of production experience. We have produced the component parts for our battery packs in limited production quantities in Korea and for prototype packs in limited quantities in the United States. As demands increases for a product, we transfer these processes and systems to, and replicate and scale these processes and systems in our high-volume manufacturing facilities. We are ramping up to begin high volume production in Korea and the United States. If we are unable to effectively and quickly transfer, replicate and scale these manufacturing processes and systems, we may be able to meet our customer's product quality and quantity requirements and lower our cost of goods sold and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our ability to achieve profitability is dependent upon achieving lower costs of raw materials resulting from increased savings from volume purchasing. Our supply chain will also be experiencing a sharp increase in demand for its products and will be experiencing similar production ramp up activities. We cannot assure you that we will achieve the material, labor and machine cost reductions associated with higher purchasing power and higher production, and failure to achieve these cost reductions could adversely impact our financial results. There is no assurance that a domestic supply business will develop and that costs would decline from such development. - 14 - - Problems in our manufacturing and assembly processes could limit our ability to produce sufficient batteries to meet the demands of our customers. Regardless of the process technology used, the manufacturing and assembly of safe, high-power batteries and battery systems is a highly complex process that requires extreme precision and quality control throughout a number of production stages. Any defects in battery packaging, impurities in the electrode materials used, contamination of the manufacturing environment, incorrect welding, excess moisture, equipment failure or other difficulties in the manufacturing process could cause batteries to be rejected, thereby reducing yields and affecting our ability to meet customer expectations. As we scale up our production capacity, we may experience production problems that may limit our ability to produce a sufficient number of batteries to meet the demands of our customers. If these or other production problems occur and we are unable to resolve them in a timely fashion, our business could suffer and our reputation may be harmed. We expect to fund a significant amount of our capital expenditures with funds provided by DOE grants and loan programs. The grant and loan programs require that we match the DOE portion with our funds, and that we comply with the terms and conditions of the programs. The terms and conditions for our loan application have not yet been finalized and the loan terms may require that we draw grant funds before we gain access to the loan funds. We will need to raise capital or borrow funds to fund our share of the capital expenditures under both the loan and grant program, and raising capital will result in dilution to our existing shareholders. We have been formally awarded $118.5 million in funds under the DOE ABMI grant program. We also have pending an application under the DOE ATVM loan program pursuant to which we are seeking a loan currently estimated to be between $275 million and $300 million. The grant requires that we match the grant award by spending one dollar on qualifying capital expenditures and other costs for each dollar reimbursed under the grant, and the loan program requires that we match the loan by spending $0.20 on qualifying capital expenditures and other costs for each $0.80 of the loan. We will need to raise debt or equity capital to fund our share of the capital expenditures under both the loan and grant program, and raising equity capital will result in dilution to our existing shareholders. Our application and supplemental materials under the loan program have been under review at the DOE. We cannot assure you that the final loan will be approved in full or in part, or that the terms and conditions for borrowing under the facility will be acceptable to us. If the loan is not approved or is approved in a substantially reduced dollar amount, we would have to curtail our future expansion plans. We cannot assure you that we will be able to choose the order of funds that we may receive under the grant or the loan. To the extent that funds must be drawn entirely under the grant first, we will have a higher matching requirement and will need to raise more debt or equity capital in the near future compared to what we would have to raise if we could draw funds under the loan first. Access to both grant and loan funds will also be conditioned on our compliance with the terms and conditions of the grant and loan programs. We may provide warranty coverage and product recall coverage for some of our products, and we do not have historical experience to project possible warranty or recall claims and costs. If warranty or recall claims are significantly higher than our initial projections, our financial results could be adversely affected. We expect to provide warranty coverage under certain automotive and grid storage battery pack sales that could range from 3-5 years, and may include, a warranty that our product complies with the agreed upon specifications developed with the end user, that there are no defects in our products, and that our product will have a certain power capacity during the life of the product. We may also be required to provide product recall coverage. We are selling new products in a new industry that does not have a significant history of product use. While we have tested batteries and battery packs in a controlled environment, we have not tested large numbers of batteries and packs for extended periods of time. Other customer protection provisions, such as return rights, could also delay our recognition of revenue. We expect to establish a warranty provision based upon our expected warranty claims, but we cannot assure you that this provision will be sufficient. Therefore, our financial results could vary based upon our actual experience relative to how we account for any expected warranty claims. Furthermore, a significant warranty claim or product recall experience could materially adversely affect our financial results. We could experience product liability costs that could materially adversely affect our financial results. Batteries contain chemicals and other products including lithium, hydrogen and acid-based electrolytes that, if used improperly or charged and discharged improperly, could result in serious injuries and damage to property from fire or otherwise. Batteries when charged can cause electric shock if not used properly. Accidents involving our products could materially impede market acceptance and demand for, or heighten regulatory scrutiny of, our products. In addition, the manufacture and use of batteries could result in product liability claims. Damages which we might incur as a result of product liability claims against us could be substantial, beyond the limits of our insurance coverage and could threaten our survival as a going concern. We also may have exposure to possible third-party claims that our batteries caused damages to other products or caused serious injuries. n addition, our business could be harmed from negative publicity if serious accidents are attributable to battery products regardless of whose battery product was involved. - 15 - - We may not meet our development and commercialization milestones. We have established product development and commercialization milestones that we use to assess our progress toward developing commercially viable products. These milestones relate to power, energy capacity, technology and product design as well as to dates for achieving development goals. To gauge our progress, we plan to operate, test and evaluate our products. If our systems or products exhibit performance or technical defects or are unable to meet cost or performance goals, including power output, useful life and reliability, our commercialization schedule could be delayed and potential purchasers of our commercial battery and energy products may decline to purchase them. We cannot assure you that we will successfully achieve our milestones in the future or that any failure to achieve these milestones will not result in potential competitors gaining advantages in our target market. Failure to meet our development and commercialization milestones might have a material adverse effect on our operations and our stock price. We may be unable to establish relationships with third parties for aspects of product development, manufacturing, distribution and servicing and the supply of key components for our products. We may need to enter into strategic relationships in order to complete our current product development and commercialization plans. We may also require partners to assist in the distribution, servicing and supply of key components for our anticipated fuel cell products in development. If we are unable to identify or enter into satisfactory agreements with potential partners, we may not be able to complete our product development and commercialization plans on schedule or at all. We may also need to scale back these plans in the absence of needed partners, which would adversely affect our future prospects. In addition, any arrangement with a strategic partner may require us to make large cash payments to the partner, issue a significant amount of equity securities to the partner, provide the partner with the opportunity to have representation on our board of directors, agree to exclusive purchase or other arrangements with the partner and/or commit significant financial resources to fund our product development efforts in exchange for their assistance or the contribution to us of intellectual property. Any such issuance of equity securities would reduce the percentage ownership of our then existing shareholders. While we have entered into relationships with suppliers of some key components for our products, we do not know when or whether we will secure supply relationships for all required components and subsystems for our products, or whether such relationships will be on terms that will allow us to achieve our objectives. Our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed if we fail to secure relationships with entities that can develop or supply the required components for our products and provide the required distribution and servicing support. Additionally, the agreements governing our current relationships allow for termination by our partners under some circumstances. We rely on third parties to develop and provide key components for our products. We rely on third-party suppliers to develop and supply key components for our products. If those suppliers fail to develop and supply these components in a timely manner or at all, or fail to develop or supply components that meet our quality, quantity or cost requirements, and we are unable to obtain substitute sources of these components on a timely basis or on terms acceptable to us, we may not be able to manufacture our products. In addition, we may be unable to obtain substitute sources of these components to the extent our suppliers use technology or manufacturing processes that are proprietary. We do not know when or whether we will secure long-term supply relationships with any suppliers or whether such relationships will be on costs and terms that will allow us to achieve our objectives. Our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed if we fail to secure long-term relationships with entities that will supply the required components for our battery and energy related products. Demand for lithium and other raw materials may affect future prices and availability of raw materials. The demand for lithium and other commodities may increase as the projected demand for hybrid and electric vehicles increases which could lead to higher prices for our raw materials. Global supply disruptions caused by political or other dislocations could also lead to shortages and higher prices. Our inability to acquire raw materials such as lithium on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, would delay and/or increase the cost of manufacturing our products and result in a significant adverse effect on our profitability. - 16 - - We face high levels of competition and may be unable to compete successfully. The markets in which we intend to market and sell our products are highly competitive. A number of companies located in Asia, the United States and elsewhere are developing and plan to manufacture battery and fuel cell technologies and other energy products that compete with our technologies and planned products. We also face competition from companies that are focused on traditional energy sources, such as oil and natural gas, as well as those that develop alternative energy technologies such as solar power, wind power, ethanol, biofuels and fuel cells. The developers of traditional and alternative energy technologies include, among others, major electric, oil, chemical, natural gas, batteries, generators and specialized electronics firms, as well as universities, research institutions and foreign government-sponsored companies. Many of these entities have substantially greater financial, research and development, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. A significant amount of public and private funding is directed toward the development of traditional and alternative energy generation, distribution and storage. The resulting technologies may render some of our planned products less attractive or obsolete. We intend to offer lithium-ion batteries to the automotive industry, which is a very competitive and cost focused industry. We have no automotive industry experience. Supplying lithium-ion batteries to the automotive industry carries significant risks. We will be competing against much larger suppliers that have greater financial, marketing and other resources; more experience in low cost, high volume manufacturing operations; existing relationships with automotive purchasing and engineering development departments; and increased ability to take advantage of economies of scale in purchasing raw materials than we have. The automotive industry is extremely competitive and competition to supply vehicle components to manufacturers focuses on the power, energy, cost, weight and size of such components. The ability of domestic automobile manufacturers to adopt new battery technologies will depend on many factors outside our control, including their ability to develop related vehicle platforms. If the industry does not accept lithium-ion battery technology, or if our lithium-ion batteries do not meet industry requirements for battery power, energy, cost, weight, size and other characteristics, our batteries will not gain market acceptance. Our financial results may vary significantly from period-to-period due to the long and unpredictable sales cycles for some of our products, and the seasonality of certain end markets into which we sell our products, which may lead to volatility in our stock price. The size and timing of our revenue from sales to our customers is difficult to predict and is market dependent. Our sales efforts often require us to educate our customers about the use and benefits of our products, including their technical and performance characteristics. Customers typically undertake a significant evaluation process that has in the past resulted in a lengthy sales cycle for us, typically many months. In some markets such as the transportation market, there is usually a significant lag time between the design phase and commercial production. We spend substantial amounts of time and money on our sales efforts and there is no assurance that these investments will produce any sales within expected time frames or at all. Given the potentially large size of battery development and supply contracts, the loss of or delay in the signing of a contract or a customer order could reduce significantly our revenue in any period. Since most of our operating and capital expenses are incurred based on the estimated number of design wins and their timing, they are difficult to adjust in the short term. As a result, if our revenue falls below our expectations or is delayed in any period, we may not be able to reduce proportionately our operating expenses or manufacturing costs for that period, and any reduction of manufacturing capacity could have long-term implications on our ability to accommodate future demand. In addition, since our batteries and battery systems are incorporated into our customers' products for sale into their respective end markets, our business is exposed to the seasonal demand that may characterize some of our customers' own product sales. Because many of our expenses are based on anticipated levels of annual revenue, our business and operating results could also suffer if we do not achieve revenue consistent with our expectations for this seasonal demand. As a result of these factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that these comparisons cannot be relied upon as indicators of future performance. Moreover, our operating results may not meet expectations of equity research analysts or investors. If this occurs, the trading price of our common stock could fall substantially either suddenly or over time. Declines in product prices may adversely affect our financial results. Our business is subject to intense price competition worldwide, which makes it difficult for us to maintain product prices and achieve adequate profits. Such intense price competition may adversely affect our ability to achieve profitability, especially during periods of decreases in demand. In addition, because of their purchasing size, our larger automotive customers can influence market participants to compete on price terms. If we are not able to offset pricing reductions resulting from these pressures by improved operating efficiencies and reduced expenditures, those pricing reductions may have an adverse impact on our business. One customer comprises a significant amount of our expected revenue in the near term, and the failure of that customer to continue as an ongoing business is likely to adversely affect our near term profitability and cash flow. We entered into an amended Supply Agreement with Think Global (“Think”) to supply lithium-ion battery packs for the Think City electric vehicle commencing in 2010. We are also an investor in Think and have voting power of approximately 34% of their equity. We expect Think will become a significant customer in 2010 and 2011, and a delay in deliveries of battery packs to Think or delays in Think’s start-up plans and financing activities would adversely affect our expected 2010 and 2011 revenues and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Think is increasing production and entering new markets, and faces the risks associated with the launch of a new vehicle including achieving production levels, managing production costs, managing their supply chain, financing the costs associated with increased production and higher working capital requirements, gaining consumer acceptance, delivering vehicles on time, servicing new customers, warranty claims and other issues related to manufacturing, selling and servicing automobiles. - 17 - - The United States and global automobile industry has recently experienced a significant decline in worldwide sales, large losses, and liquidity issues which may affect our future sales and the development of the electric vehicle industry. Our business depends on and is directly affected by the general state of the United States and global automobile industry. The effect of the continued economic difficulties of the major auto manufacturers on our business is unclear. Several automotive companies were sold or closed in 2009, and two large United States automotive companies reorganized under the bankruptcy laws. Several large automotive companies have sold or discontinued brands of automobiles. It is possible that additional companies may enter into a restructuring, which could be government mandated, privately negotiated, or conducted within the context of bankruptcy proceedings. It is possible that the ownership of our prospective customers could change and affect our supply agreements and development activities. The impact of any such restructuring on the automobile industry and its suppliers is unclear and difficult to predict. Possible effects could include reduced spending on alternative energy systems for automobiles, a delay in the introduction of new hybrid and electric vehicles, and a delay in the conversion of batteries to lithium-ion chemistry, each of which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Oil prices have been extremely volatile and trends to convert to electric and hybrid electric vehicles may be adversely affected by any perceived significant reduction in gasoline prices. Oil and gasoline prices have been extremely volatile we expect and the possibility of continuing volatility to persist. Drops in gasoline prices lower the perception in government and the private sector that cheaper, more readily available energy alternatives should be developed and produced. Lower oil prices also decrease the cost of existing energy technologies, making them more competitive with alternative products such as lithium-ion batteries. If oil prices decline, the demand for hybrid and electric vehicles may decrease which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Failure of our planned products to pass testing could negatively impact demand for our planned products. We may encounter difficulties and delays during testing of our planned products for a number of reasons, including the failure of our technology or the technology of third parties. Many of these potential problems and delays are beyond our control. Any problem or perceived problem with test results for our planned products could materially harm our reputation and impair market acceptance of, and demand for, any of our products. Regulatory and other changes in the energy industry may adversely affect our ability to produce, and may reduce demand for, our planned products. Federal, state, local and foreign government laws, regulations and policies concerning the energy industry may heavily influence the market for our technologies and products. A change in the current regulatory environment could make it more difficult or costly for us to develop, manufacture or market our products. Any such changes could also deter further investment in the research and development of alternative energy sources, which could significantly reduce demand for our technologies and products. We cannot predict how changes in regulation or other industry changes will affect the market for our products or impact our ability to distribute, install and service our products. Business practices in Korea may entail greater risk and dependence upon the personal relationships of senior management than is common in North America, and therefore some of our agreements with other parties in China and Korea could be difficult or impossible to enforce. The business culture of Korea is, in some respects, different from the business cultures in Western countries and may present some difficulty for Western investors reviewing contractual relationships among companies in Korea and evaluating the merits of an investment. Personal relationships among business principals of companies and business entities in Korea may be very significant in their business cultures. In some cases, because so much reliance is based upon personal relationships, written contracts among businesses in Korea may be less detailed and specific than is commonly accepted for similar written agreements in Western countries. In some cases, material terms of an understanding are not contained in the written agreement but exist as oral agreements only. In other cases, the terms of transactions which may involve material amounts of money are not documented at all. In addition, in contrast to Western business practices where a written agreement specifically defines the terms, rights and obligations of the parties in a legally-binding and enforceable manner, the parties to a written agreement in Korea may view that agreement more as a starting point for an ongoing business relationship which will evolve and require ongoing modification. As a result, written agreements in Korea may appear to the Western reader to look more like outline agreements that precede a formal written agreement. While these documents may appear incomplete or unenforceable to a Western reader, the parties to the agreement in Korea may feel that they have a more complete understanding than is apparent to someone who is only reading the written agreement without having attended the negotiations. As a result, contractual arrangements in Korea may be more difficult to review and understand. - 18 - - We could be liable for environmental damages resulting from our research, development or manufacturing operations. Our business exposes us to the risk that harmful substances may escape into the environment, resulting in personal injury or loss of life, or damage to or destruction of property and natural resources. Our insurance policies may not adequately reimburse us for costs incurred in defending, settling and paying environmental damage claims, and in some instances, we may not be reimbursed at all. Our business is subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations that govern environmental protection and human health and safety. These laws and regulations have changed frequently in the past and we expect there will be additional changes in the future. If our operations do not comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations, we may be required to make significant unanticipated capital and operating expenditures to bring our operations into compliance. If we fail to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations, governmental authorities may seek to impose fines and penalties on us or to revoke or deny the issuance or renewal of operating permits and private parties may seek damages from us. Under those circumstances, we might be required to curtail or cease operations, conduct site remediation or other corrective action, or pay substantial damage claims. Our products may use materials that are inherently dangerous substances which could subject our business to product liability claims. Our energy technologies and products may use lithium, hydrogen and other combustible materials. Accidents involving our products could materially impede market acceptance and demand for, or heighten regulatory scrutiny of, our products. Damages which we might incur as a result of product liability claims against us could be substantial, beyond the limits of our insurance coverage, and could threaten our survival as a going concern. Future acquisitions may disrupt our business, distract our management and reduce the percentage ownership of our shareholders. As part of our business strategy, we may seek to acquire complementary technologies, products, expertise and/or other valuable assets. We may be unable, however, to identify suitable acquisition candidates or, if we do identify suitable candidates, we may not be able to complete the acquisitions on commercially acceptable terms or at all. If we issue equity securities as part of an acquisition transaction, the percentage ownership of our then current shareholders may be reduced. Once we’ve acquired a business, we may have to devote a significant amount of time and management and financial resources to successfully integrate the business into our existing operations in a timely and non-disruptive manner, and may be unable to do so. An acquisition may not produce the desired revenues, earnings or business synergies that were anticipated prior to concluding the transaction, which could cause our business and financial condition to be materially and adversely affected. As a result of an acquisition, we may incur non-recurring charges and be required to amortize significant amounts of intangible assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations and profitability. We may not be able to protect the intellectual property upon which we depend and we could incur substantial costs defending against claims that our products infringe on the proprietary rights of others. Our ability to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technologies, systems designs and manufacturing processes. While we have attempted to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights, we do not know whether we have been or will be completely successful in doing so. We rely on patents, trademarks, and policies and procedures related to confidentiality to protect our intellectual property. However, some of our intellectual property is not covered by any patents or patent applications. Moreover, we do not know whether any of our pending patent applications will issue or, in the case of patents issued or to be issued, that the claims allowed are or will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology or processes. Even if all of our patent applications are issued, our patents may be challenged or invalidated. Moreover, patent applications filed in foreign countries may be subject to laws, rules and procedures that are substantially different from those of the United States, and any resulting foreign patents may be difficult and expensive to enforce. - 19 - - In addition, we do not know whether the United States Patent & Trademark Office will grant federal registrations based on our pending trademark applications. Even if federal registrations are granted to us, our trademark rights may be challenged. It is possible that our competitors or others will adopt trademarks similar to ours, thereby impeding our ability to maintain our brand identity and possibly leading to customer confusion. Asserting, defending and maintaining our intellectual property rights could be difficult and costly and failure to do so may diminish our ability to compete effectively and may harm our operating results. We may need to pursue legal action to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and domain names and to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. If third parties prepare and file applications for trademarks used or registered by us, we may oppose those applications and be required to participate in proceedings to determine priority of rights to the trademark. Similarly, competitors may have filed applications for patents, may have received patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights relating to products or technology that block or compete with ours. We may have to participate in interference proceedings to determine the priority of invention and the right to a patent for the technology. Litigation and interference proceedings, even if they are successful, are expensive to pursue and time consuming, and could require us to spend a substantial amount of our financial resources. If we are found to be infringing third party proprietary rights, we could be required to pay substantial royalties and/or damages. We do not know whether we will be able to obtain licenses to use the intellectual property at issue on acceptable terms, if at all. Failure to obtain needed licenses could delay or prevent the development, manufacture or sale of our products, and could require us to spend significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing intellectual property. We rely, in part, on contractual provisions to protect our trade secrets and proprietary knowledge. We rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary technologies, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, contractors, consultants, outside scientific collaborators and other advisors to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information. Confidentiality agreements to which we are party may be breached, in which case we may not have adequate remedies. Our trade secrets may become publicly available without breach of such agreements or may be independently developed by competitors. Our inability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology and processes could allow our competitors to limit or eliminate any competitive advantages we may have. Our business depends on retaining and attracting highly capable management and operating personnel. Our success depends in large part on our ability to retain and attract qualified management and operating personnel. We require a highly skilled specialized workforce, including scientists, engineers, researchers and manufacturing and marketing professionals, individuals who are in high demand and are often subject to competing offers. To retain and attract key personnel, we use various measures, including employment agreements, a stock incentive plan and incentive bonuses for key employees. These measures may not be enough to retain and attract the personnel we need or to offset the impact on our business of the loss of the services of key officers or employees. We could face difficulty hiring and retaining qualified management and operating personnel. We face risks associated with our plans to market, distribute and service our products internationally. We have limited experience developing and no experience manufacturing or distributing products that will be sold in the United States or international markets. Our success in international markets will depend, in part, on our ability to secure relationships with foreign sub-distributors, and to manufacture products that meet foreign regulatory and commercial standards. International operations are subject to other inherent risks, including potential difficulties in enforcing contractual obligations and intellectual property rights in foreign countries and fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Government contracts could restrict our ability to commercialize our technology effectively. Contracts we enter into with government agencies are subject to the risk of termination at the option of the contracting agency and potential disclosure of our confidential information to third parties. Under the Freedom of Information Act, any documents that we have submitted to the government or to a contractor under a government funding arrangement may be subject to public disclosure which could compromise our intellectual property rights unless these documents are exempted as trade secrets or as confidential information, appropriately legended by us, and treated accordingly by such government agencies. - 20 - - As a government contractor, we must comply with and are affected by federal government regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of government contracts. These regulations will affect how we do business with our customers and may impose added costs on our business. Any failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in contract termination, price or fee reductions or suspension or debarment from contracting with the federal government. Federal government agencies routinely audit government contracts. These agencies review a contractor’s performance on its contract, pricing practices, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. These audits may occur several years after completion of the audited work. An audit could result in a substantial adjustment to our revenues because any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, while improper costs already reimbursed must be refunded. If a government audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from doing business with federal government agencies. In addition, our reputation could be harmed if allegations of impropriety were made against us. We may be unable to manage rapid growth effectively. We expect to expand our manufacturing capabilities, accelerate the commercialization of our products and enter a period of growth, all of which will place a significant strain on our senior management team and our financial and other resources. Our proposed expansion will expose us to increased competition, greater overhead, marketing and support costs and other risks associated with the commercialization of a new product. Our ability to manage our growth effectively will require us to continue to improve our operations and our financial and management information systems and to train, motivate and manage our employees. Difficulties in effectively managing the budgeting, forecasting and other process control issues presented by such a rapid expansion could harm our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our stock price has been and could remain volatile. The market price of our common stock has historically experienced and may continue to experience significant volatility. Our progress in developing and commercializing our products, our quarterly operating results, announcements of new products by us or our competitors, our perceived prospects, changes in securities analysts’ recommendations or earnings estimates, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets, adverse events related to our strategic relationships and other developments affecting us or our competitors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, in recent years, the stock market, and in particular the market for technology-related stocks has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has affected the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance and may adversely affect the price of our common stock. In addition, we may be subject to additional securities class action litigation as a result of volatility in the price of our common stock, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of management’s attention and resources and could harm our stock price, business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Credit market volatility and illiquidity may affect our ability to raise capital to finance our operations, plant expansion and growth. The credit markets have experienced extreme volatility during the last year, and worldwide credit markets have remained illiquid despite injections of capital by the Federal government and foreign governments. Despite the capital injections and government actions, banks and other lenders, such as equipment leasing companies, have significantly increased credit requirements and reduced the amounts available to borrowers. Companies with low credit ratings may not have access to the debt markets until liquidity improves, if at all. If current credit market conditions do not improve, we may not be able to access debt or leasing markets to finance our plant expansion plans. We may be unable to access the equity capital markets. The equity markets have experienced significant and rapid declines in values during the last year, and institutional investors have experienced large losses. In addition, many mutual funds and hedge funds need to maintain high levels of liquidity to meet redemption demands. As a result of the loss or restriction of funds for investment, the market for offerings of our stock may be limited. - 21 - - Future sales of our common stock may adversely affect our common stock price. If a large number of shares of our common stock are sold in the public market or if we issue a large number of shares in connection with future acquisitions or financings, particularly if we issue shares at a discount to the then current market price, the price of our common stock could decline significantly. Our certificate of incorporation and Florida law could adversely affect our common stock price. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and Florida law could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control of us. These provisions could diminish the opportunities for a shareholder to participate in tender offers, including tender offers at a price above the then current market value of our common stock. These provisions may also inhibit fluctuations in the market price of our common stock that could result from takeover attempts. In addition, our board of directors, without further shareholder approval, may issue additional series of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control. The issuance of additional series of preferred stock could also adversely affect the voting power of the holders of common stock, including the loss of voting control to others. Our principal shareholders have substantial control over our affairs. Ener1 Group and Bzinfin beneficially own a majority of our outstanding common stock. Two of Ener1 Group’s board members, who are also senior executives of Ener1 Group, are also members of our Board of Directors and are our Chief Executive Officer and Senior Technical Advisor. Ener1 Group has the ability to control virtually all matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including an increase of our authorized shares, the election and removal of our directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, Ener1 Group, through its ability to elect a majority of the members of our Board of Directors, may dictate the management of our business and affairs. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing an increase in our authorized shares, a change in control or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination which other shareholders may view favorably. If the Company does not have sufficient authorized shares, then this may have an adverse affect on our stock price and could materially and adversely affect the Company, its financial condition and its ability going forward to raise capital through the equity markets and otherwise. - 22 - - Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None Item 