Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to other information contained in this Annual Report, the following factors could affect Gateway’s future business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position, and could cause future results to differ materially from those expressed in any of the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report. The PC industry is extremely competitive and pricing pressures have reduced Gateway’s gross profits and challenge its ability to maintain profitability. Consolidation in the PC industry has resulted in larger and stronger competitors in many of Gateway’s markets and it continues to experience increased competition in certain of its business segments. Gateway competes primarily on the basis of customer satisfaction, price, product value, technology, product offerings with innovative performance features, quality, reliability, brand recognition, customer service and support, and by maintaining strategic supplier relationships that enable it to bring products to market quickly. Gateway’s management expects these competitive pressures to continue into the foreseeable future. Gateway’s management also expects that average sales prices of its PCs will continue to decline, although this may be partially offset by an increased product mix of relatively higher priced notebook PCs, Gateway branded PCs in Retail and liquid crystal displays. If Gateway continues to reduce PC prices in response to competition, Gateway may be unable to maintain or improve gross profits through cost reductions or offsetting sales of higher margin Non-PC products. Its overall gross profit as a percentage of sales has declined due to its shift in overall distribution to third party retail and competitive pressures. To the extent Gateway is unable to maintain or grow its revenues and market share and maintain or improve its gross profits, its business prospects and financial condition would be adversely affected. Reliance upon third-party patents and intellectual property licensing could limit Gateway’s ability to innovate and exposes it to actual and potential litigation, which could adversely impact operating results. There is no assurance that Gateway will continue to have access to existing or new third-party technology for use in its products. While it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of its products and business methods, Gateway’s management believes that based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. However, there is no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms. If Gateway or its suppliers are unable to obtain such licenses, Gateway may be forced to market products without certain desirable technological features. Gateway could also incur substantial costs to redesign its products around other parties’ protected technology. Because of technological changes in the PC industry and the convergence of PCs with Non-PC products, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is possible certain components of Gateway’s products and business methods may unknowingly infringe upon existing patents of others. For example, Gateway is a party to various lawsuits and claims, including assertions of patent infringements and intellectual property-related administrative proceedings that arise in connection with its business. Gateway cannot predict the outcome of these matters with certainty. Some of these lawsuits allege substantial damages and also seek injunctive relief to stop it from selling products alleged to infringe patents of others. If such relief was granted or substantial damages were incurred, Gateway’s business and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. In addition, responding to such claims, regardless of their merit, is time consuming, results in significant expenses, and diverts the attention of management and technical personnel. Gateway attempts to transfer the risk of inadvertent patent infringement to its original design manufacturers and suppliers via contract. Gateway is not always successful in contractually transferring such risk to its original design manufacturers and suppliers, and even when it does so it may be unable to enforce their obligations or they may be unable to adequately defend any patent infringement claims against its PCs and Gateway-branded Non-PC products. If Gateway is unable to impose upon its original design manufacturers and suppliers the costs of patent infringement claims, its future operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents Because one customer accounts for a substantial portion of Gateway’s revenues, the loss of this customer would cause a significant decline in its revenues. A single customer, Best Buy, accounted for approximately 39% of total revenues for 2006, up from 34% of total revenues for 2005, and is expected to continue to be a significant customer in the future. Although Gateway works to expand and diversify its customer base, reductions or terminations of product purchases by, or pricing pressures from, this customer or other major third-party retailers without an offsetting increase in new sales to other customers, would result in a substantial decline in revenue and operating results. Failure to develop and maintain relationships with several key third-party retailers could adversely affect revenues. Gateway’s products are sold primarily through direct channels and third-party retailers. Third-party retail sales have expanded significantly since early 2004. Gateway’s management expects a substantial portion of its future sales will be to a small number of key third-party retailers. Additionally, third-party retailer orders may vary considerably from quarter to quarter. If the financial condition of these retailers weakens or if they were to cease or significantly reduce the distribution of Gateway’s products, Gateway’s business and financial results could be adversely affected. If significant variability is experienced, Gateway’s business and financial results for a particular quarter could be adversely affected. In addition, failure to foster and maintain strategic relationships with these retailers could have a significant adverse impact on Gateway’s revenues and operating results. If Gateway fails to attract new customers, retain its existing customers and/or replace revenues associated with its higher-margin service revenues, its operating results will be adversely impacted. The success of Gateway’s business depends on increasing the overall number of customer transactions in a cost-effective manner. To do this, Gateway must attract new and repeat customers through its various marketing channels, including its website, its telephone call centers, its professional sales force, and its third-party retail partners, and then convert these interactions into sales transactions. Gateway’s reduced marketing expenditures have contributed in part to reduced demand within its Direct and Professional segments and Gateway’s ability to successfully bid on future public sector business could be negatively impacted if Gateway fails to perform under any of its existing public sector contracts. Furthermore, some of its third-party retail partners sell or may sell private label PCs at competitive prices and these sales have the potential to adversely affect Gateway’s market share. In addition, a portion of Gateway’s revenue and profit is derived from higher-margin Internet access services and extended warranties sold in prior periods and recognized over time under its revenue recognition policy, which Gateway expect to decline in the future. If Gateway does not achieve increased transaction volume, or replace its higher margin service revenues with alternative sources of profit margin, its ability to grow and maintain profitability will be adversely impacted. Information technology systems integration issues could disrupt Gateway’s internal operations, which could have significant adverse effects on its profitability and/or may have a material effect on its internal controls over financial reporting. Gateway is implementing a new enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system, as well as order capture and customer service applications, and continues to develop and modify certain of its other systems. Gateway has experienced development and implementation delays with certain projects, and may experience interruptions in availability of portions of its information technology infrastructure, additional delays in development and implementation, or unanticipated system errors. Gateway may not be successful in implementing these new systems, and transitioning data and other aspects of the process could be expensive, time consuming and disruptive. Any disruptions that may occur in the implementation of these new systems or any future systems could adversely affect Gateway’s ability to report in an accurate and timely manner the results of its financial operations and otherwise efficiently operate its business, which could have significant adverse effects on its profitability. 10 Table of Contents Gateway started implementing a significant portion of the ERP during December of 2006 which will impact a number of its internal and reporting controls. While Gateway believes it has adequately planned for the implementation and review of all noted controls, no assurance can be made that it will meet all of its financial control requirements. Gateway is reporting a material weakness in its design of internal controls in this reporting period related to its receiving and selling of components with its original design manufacturers (see Item 9A). Gateway is dependent on manufacturing and services provided by a limited number of third parties and failure to properly manage these relationships could significantly impact its results of operations. Gateway is dependent upon third-party providers of manufacturing and support services. Gateway currently outsources a substantial portion of its manufacturing operations, a significant portion of its service and support functions, and some administrative and operational services to third-party providers under contract. Although Gateway has partnered with certain vendors, Gateway has no assurance that business interruptions will not occur or that these third parties will meet the needs of its business. If Gateway is unable to properly manage its relationships with these third-party providers or accurately forecast its demand requirements for them, its revenues and gross profits may be adversely affected. Similarly, if its third-party providers do not comply with their contractual obligations, Gateway’s results of operations could be adversely impacted. Gateway requires a high volume of quality products and components for its PC and Non-PC offerings, substantially all of which are obtained from a limited number of original design manufacturers and suppliers. In some circumstances Gateway maintains single or dual-source vendor relationships, such as with Microsoft for operating system software and Intel and AMD for PC microprocessors. There currently is a lawsuit between AMD and Intel, the outcome of which could impact Gateway’s results of operations. If the supply of a key material product or component were delayed or curtailed, Gateway’s ability to ship the related product in a timely and cost-effective manner could be adversely affected. Gateway seeks to mitigate a portion of these risks in some cases by maintaining insurance to protect itself against loss of profits due to a vendor’s inability to perform due to an insurable property loss. In addition, Gateway seeks to mitigate such risks by having dual sources of supply where appropriate. However, even where multiple vendors are available, Gateway may source from a single vendor to take advantage of volume discounts, for product technical or quality reasons, or to maintain access to certain key components that are at times subject to industry-wide availability and pricing pressures. In cases where Gateway needs to switch to another original design manufacturer or supplier and alternative sources of supply are available, qualification of the sources and establishment of reliable new or additional production with such original design manufacturers or suppliers could result in delays and possible reductions in net sales or increases in cost of goods sold. Gateway also receives market development funding from a few of these suppliers in order to promote or develop markets for computers featuring the supplier’s products. If the amount of market development funding were to significantly decline, Gateway’s results of operations could be adversely affected. To minimize some of these risks, Gateway monitors the financial status of certain key original design manufacturers, suppliers and service providers and assesses the likelihood of disruption to the supply of products, components, or services. Certain of its commercial partners are financially weak, and Gateway has established contingency plans to mitigate its financial and operating exposure. However, such plans for any key commercial partner that experiences financial instability may not prevent delays or curtailments of deliveries of key products, components or services, or eliminate Gateway’s financial exposure to future costs such as warranty claims or the write-off of receivables from the sale of components to original design manufacturers, which could adversely affect Gateway’s future operating results and financial condition. Many of Gateway’s competitors obtain products or components from the same original design manufacturers and suppliers that Gateway utilizes. Gateway’s competitors may obtain better pricing and other terms, more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply, and could limit Gateway’s ability to engage in relationships with certain original design manufacturers and suppliers. In addition, certain of Gateway’s original design manufacturers and suppliers could decide in the future to not continue 11 Table of Contents conducting business with it. Any of these actions by Gateway’s competitors, original design manufacturers or suppliers could adversely affect its future operating results and financial condition. Gateway is dependent on suppliers for trade credit. If such credit is not available, Gateway’s liquidity could be adversely affected. Gateway’s ability to obtain trade credit from its suppliers is necessary for its ongoing business operations. Some of its suppliers have restricted the amount and terms of trade credit available to Gateway in response to continued operating losses and the decline in its cash and marketable securities balances. If Gateway continues to experience net losses and see further erosion of its cash balances, trade credit from suppliers could be further limited. While Gateway believes it will have sufficient cash and financial flexibility to meet its operational cash needs for at least the next twelve months, if it is unable to maintain sufficient liquidity, its future results of operations and financial condition would be adversely impacted. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” for more information. Gateway opened a final assembly facility during 2006 which exposes it to additional financial and operational risk. To better serve its Professional and Direct customers, Gateway opened a dedicated U.S. final assembly facility in 2006. Gateway assembles configure-to-order desktops, notebooks and servers according to customer specifications at this facility, as well as providing custom imaging services and government compliance certification. This facility is expected to increase Gateway’s ability to serve its Professional and Direct customers and improve its cost efficiency. The facility increases Gateway’s fixed costs, requires additional systems and controls, and requires additional management oversight and expertise. Should any of these costs or requirements escalate or should anticipated volumes fall below expectations, Gateway’s results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. Gateway’s reliance on original design manufacturers or suppliers of key products and components exposes it to potential product quality issues and unanticipated warranty costs that could affect the on-time delivery and performance of its products and services, which could adversely impact operating results. While outsourcing arrangements may lower its product and operating costs, they also reduce its direct control over production and distribution. If Gateway is unable to ship its products in desired quantities and in a timely manner due to a delay or curtailment of the supply of material products or components, or product quality issues arise due to faulty products or components manufactured by original design manufacturers or suppliers, the market for its products or services could be adversely affected with a resulting reduction in revenues. Gateway’s estimated warranty and extended warranty costs are affected by ongoing product failure rates and specific product class failures. If product failure rates, material usage or service delivery costs exceed its estimates due to faulty products or components manufactured by original design manufacturers or suppliers, warranty expenses may increase. In many instances Gateway relies on offshore suppliers, particularly from Asia, for product assembly and manufacturing, and risks associated with transportation, including timely delivery to its primary ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach, California, and other natural or human factors may disrupt the flow of product. If for any reason manufacturing or logistics in any of these locations or the subsequent transportation to the U.S. or other customer locations were disrupted by economic, business, environmental, political, medical, military or terrorist events, Gateway’s operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, Gateway may experience production and financial difficulties if any of its significant original design manufacturers or suppliers suffer financial instability. This includes its likely inability to obtain reimbursement for prepaid warranty costs from certain original design manufacturers, should their financial condition deteriorate. Should such original design manufacturers or suppliers fail to either produce or deliver products as scheduled or to provide prepaid warranty coverage, Gateway’s operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents Failure to develop and introduce new and technologically advanced products in an industry characterized by short product life cycles could adversely affect Gateway’s growth and efforts to sustain profitability. Gateway’s business model depends on bringing new and innovative products to market quickly. The success of its product introductions depends on many factors including the availability of new products, successful quality control and launch readiness efforts, its ability to successfully forecast product demand, training of sales and support personnel, and customer acceptance of new technology. In addition, the introduction of certain new technologies, such as the Microsoft Windows® Vista™ operating system, presents Gateway with uncertainties regarding the speed of customer acceptance, software and hardware compatibility, and manufacturing schedules. If Gateway is unable to successfully forecast demand for new products, it may not properly manage its inventory levels and may have increased exposure to supply shortages, product obsolescence and other supply-related risks. Short product life cycles resulting from rapid changes in technology and consumer preferences and declining product prices characterize the PC industry. Gateway’s internal engineering personnel work closely with product and component suppliers and other technology developers to evaluate the latest developments in PC and Non-PC products. There is no assurance that Gateway will continue to have access to or the right to use new technology, or be successful incorporating such new technology in its products in a timely manner. The failure to properly manage inventory could adversely affect operating results. By distributing many of its products directly to its customers prior to its acquisition of eMachines, Gateway historically avoided the need to maintain high levels of finished goods inventory. This minimized costs and allowed Gateway to respond more quickly to changing customer demands and reduced its exposure to the risk of finished product obsolescence. As Gateway increases sales volume into third-party retail channels, managing its inventory effectively has become increasingly important. Third-party retailers may quickly increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high, or delay orders in anticipation of new products. Orders also may be adjusted in response to the supply of Gateway’s competitors’ products and seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. In addition, Gateway maintains certain component products in inventory. If Gateway is not successful in forecasting component prices or component or product demand, its product costs could be impacted or it could have excess or insufficient inventory of certain components or products and any excess inventory may result in reduced prices and inventory write-downs, which in turn could result in lower gross profits. A decrease in market demand or a decision to increase supply, among other factors, could result in higher finished goods and component inventory levels, and a decrease in value of this inventory could have a negative effect on Gateway’s results of operations. Although Gateway’s management believes the company’s inventory and related reserve provisions are adequate, given the rapid and unpredictable pace of product obsolescence in the PC industry, no assurance can be given that Gateway will not incur significant additional inventory and related charges. In addition, by purchasing component parts on behalf of original design manufacturers, Gateway has increased its credit risk with these original design manufacturers. The failure to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could have a significant near-term adverse impact on Gateway’s operations. Gateway’s ability to attract, retain and motivate employees and maintain employee morale has been adversely impacted by a number of factors, including workforce reductions, the closure of facilities and a competitive PC business environment. Gateway has experienced, and may continue to experience, turnover in senior management and in the general workforce, which may disrupt business operations, internal controls, and relationships with commercial partners and customers. Turnover, particularly among senior management, can also create distractions and cause operational inefficiencies as replacement personnel become familiar with its business and operations. In addition, manpower in certain areas may be constrained, which could lead to disruptions over time. There can be no assurance that Gateway will continue to successfully attract or retain the management it needs, or be able to maintain an optimal workforce size. Any inability to attract, retain or motivate such personnel or address manpower constraints as needed could materially adversely affect its future operating results, internal controls and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents Gateway has outsourced operations in countries outside of the U.S. and changes in the political environment, economic policies and other factors within those countries or the U.S. could adversely affect its business. Gateway has outsourced a substantial portion of its manufacturing operations to countries in Asia, Eastern Europe, and Mexico. A change in these countries’ economic or regulation policies could adversely affect business and economic conditions in the affected country generally and could negatively impact the cost-saving benefits of Gateway’s outsourced operations overseas. While Gateway’s contract obligations are typically in U.S. dollars, changes in currency exchange rates could impact its suppliers and increase prices. Changes in Chinese Yuan remnimbi to United States dollar exchange rate could increase its costs for products and components sourced from China. Any political instability could also change the present satisfactory legal environment for us through the imposition of restrictions on foreign ownership, repatriation of funds, adverse labor laws, and the like. Further, risks associated with transportation and other natural or human factors, including disease epidemics, may disrupt operations in and the flow of products from certain countries. Gateway also has outsourced workers in countries outside of the U.S. in technical support call centers, repair centers, and refurbishment centers. These outsourced operations present Gateway with similar economic and political risks. The political climate in the U.S. also could change, which could adversely affect Gateway’s ability to maintain or create low-cost operations outside the U.S. Environmental laws and regulations and unforeseen costs could impact Gateway’s future earnings. Production and marketing of products in certain states and countries may subject Gateway to environmental and other regulations. Gateway also could face significant costs and liabilities in connection with product take-back legislation, which provides customers the ability to return product at the end of its useful life and places financial and other responsibility for environmentally safe collection, recycling, treatment and disposal with Gateway. Gateway also faces increasing complexity in its product design and procurement and operations as Gateway adjusts to new and upcoming requirements relating to the materials composition of its products, including the restrictions on lead and certain other substances that apply to specified electronics products marketed in the European Union as of July 1, 2006. The European Union has also finalized the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, which makes producers of electrical goods, including computers and printers, financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. There is substantial complexity associated with compliance with these new regulations and the costs of implementation are not easily quantifiable. Compliance also necessitates its reliance on the representations made by suppliers as to material composition; while such representations are believed to be accurate, Gateway could face significant costs and liabilities if the representations prove to not be accurate. Furthermore, Gateway must rely on its suppliers’ ability to respond to environmental requirements with compliant products and documentation in a timely manner. Similar laws and regulations have been or may be enacted in other states and countries. Other environmental regulations may require Gateway to reengineer its products to utilize components which are more environmentally compatible and such reengineering and component substitution may result in additional costs to Gateway. Although Gateway does not anticipate any material adverse effects based on the nature of its operations and the effect of such laws, there is no assurance that such existing laws or future laws will not have a material adverse effect on Gateway. Gateway is subject to seasonality which can make it difficult to forecast results of operations and anticipate near term developments. Gateway’s revenues and operating margins vary among products, distribution channels and the seasonal buying habits of its customers. Historically revenues in the Retail segment are seasonally higher during the second half of the year, and Professional segment revenues are seasonally higher in the second and third quarters. Consequently, the overall operating margins of Gateway in any given period will depend, in part, on the product, geographic and channel mix reflected in that period’s net sales, as well as seasonality factors related to the time 14 Table of Contents of the year. In addition, Gateway typically experiences an increase in sales activity near quarter-end. Developments late in a quarter, such as lower-than-anticipated demand for Gateway’s products or late arriving components and scheduling/production delays at its manufacturing or logistics partners, fluctuations in product, geographic and channel mix, and the effect of seasonality on its sales and operating margins can have significant adverse impacts on Gateway and its results of operations and financial condition for a given reporting period. Expansion into international markets exposes Gateway to increased risks, which could adversely impact operating results. Gateway has expanded sales of PCs and certain Non-PC products into international markets. International sales are subject to certain inherent risks including unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and tariffs, including antidumping penalties, risks in hedging for foreign currency fluctuations for non-U.S. dollar sales, difficulties in managing foreign operations, legal remedies that can affect accounts receivable collection and potentially adverse tax consequences. In addition, given that its products in international markets are sold primarily through a small number of third-party retail partners, Gateway’s business and financial results could be adversely affected if the financial condition of any of these retailers weakens or if they were to cease or significantly reduce the distribution of its products. For those international sales not denominated in U.S. dollars, any strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to the currencies of other countries into which Gateway sell its products and services could make its products and services more expensive, thereby reducing the price-competitiveness of its products. Should any of these difficulties arise, its results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. War, terrorist acts and other political and economic uncertainties may adversely affect Gateway’s operating results. War and the related political and economic uncertainties, terrorist attacks, national and international responses to terrorist attacks, and other acts of hostility could materially adversely affect demand for Gateway’s products and disrupt its supply chain or customer fulfillment logistics or operations, resulting in an adverse impact on its future operating results and financial condition. If Gateway cannot sustain profitability and Gateway incurs significant net losses or negative cash flows, the business could fail. Gateway experienced net losses in the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2004 of $515 million and $568 million, respectively. While Gateway reported net income of $9.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 and $6.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, approximately $35 million and $41 million, respectively, was attributable to the Marketing, Development and Settlement Agreement with Microsoft, which expires in the fourth quarter of 2008 and Gateway cannot guarantee its future profitability, and additional significant net losses would materially adversely affect Gateway’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Its cash and marketable securities balances have declined since the first quarter of 2004 from historically higher levels due to the eMachines acquisition, restructuring its company, working capital usage in support of expanding its Retail business, and other operating, investing and financing activities. Cash and marketable securities balances declined materially from December 31, 2005 to December 31, 2006. Gateway may be unable to generate positive cash flow, which would result in declining cash and marketable securities balances. Gateway may be required to raise additional cash through additional debt or equity instruments. Gateway’s management believes Gateway will have sufficient cash and financial flexibility to meet its operational cash needs for the next twelve months. If it is unable to maintain sufficient liquidity or raise additional capital, its future results of operations and financial condition would be adversely impacted. Gateway’s failure to protect customer data could adversely affect our sales and reputation. There have been a number of instances in which personal information maintained by companies has been lost or stolen. Gateway collects and maintains large amounts of customer data in the normal course of its 15 Table of Contents business, and Gateway’s service providers collect and maintain customer data in the course of providing services to customers on Gateway’s behalf. Gateway has policies and procedures in place to protect against inadvertent disclosure of customer data by it and its suppliers. It also proactively searches and seeks to protect against intrusions into its infrastructure to prevent the theft of customer data. Although Gateway believes it has effective policies, procedures and technology to prevent the disclosure of customer data, the loss or theft of customer data could adversely affect Gateway’s sales and reputation with its customers, as well as expose Gateway to potential damages and costs that could be material. If Gateway does not maintain its reputation and expand its name recognition, Gateway may lose customers which would adversely impact its financial results. Developing and maintaining awareness of its Gateway and eMachines brand names is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of its PC and Non-PC offerings. Promotion and enhancement of its brand will depend largely on whether Gateway cost-effectively provides reliable and desirable products and services to customers and the effectiveness of its marketing efforts. Currently, third-party retailers are often its first points of contact with consumers and these retailers provide much of its product advertising as Gateway has reduced its internal spending on marketing. If these retailers reduce or cease advertising its products, Gateway may need to increase its own sales and marketing expenses to create and maintain brand awareness among potential consumers. If customers do not perceive Gateway’s products to be of high quality, its brand names and reputation could be harmed, which could adversely impact its financial results. Gateway’s internal control over financial reporting could be adversely affected by a material weakness in its internal controls. If not corrected, its operating results and stock price could be adversely affected. During the course of the 2006 year-end close process, Gateway’s management examined Gateway’s processes relating to its receipt of components from original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and sale of components to original design manufacturers (ODMs). As a result of that evaluation, management concluded that Gateway did not adequately design controls to ensure the timely accrual of liabilities to OEMs, recording of receivables from ODMs and receipt of inventory (see Item 9A). While Gateway continues to take steps to remediate this material weakness, there can be no assurance that Gateway will be able to completely remediate it such that management will be able to conclude that its internal control over financial reporting is effective. The existence of a significant deficiency or a material weakness could result in errors in Gateway’s financial statements that could result in a restatement, cause Gateway to fail to timely meet its reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in its reported financial information, leading to a decline in Gateway’s stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 