Item 1A. Risk Factors — (continued) We have a legal responsibility to the minority owners of the entities through which we own our surgery centers, which may conflict with our interests and prevent us from acting solely in our own best interests. As the owner of majority interests in the limited partnerships and limited liability companies that own our surgery centers, we owe a fiduciary duty to the minority interest holders in these entities and may encounter conflicts between our interests and that of the minority holders. In these cases, our representatives on the governing board of each joint venture are obligated to exercise reasonable, good faith judgment to resolve the conflicts and may not be free to act solely in our own best interests. In our role as manager of the limited partnership or limited liability company, we generally exercise our discretion in managing the business of the surgery center. Disputes may arise between us and the physician partners regarding a particular business decision or the interpretation of the provisions of the limited partnership agreement or limited liability company operating agreement. The agreements provide for arbitration as a dispute resolution process in some circumstances. We cannot assure you that any dispute will be resolved or that any dispute resolution will be on terms satisfactory to us. We may write-off intangible assets, such as goodwill. As a result of purchase accounting for our various acquisition transactions, our balance sheet at December 31, 2006 contained an intangible asset designated as goodwill totaling $397.1 million. Additional purchases of interests in practice-based surgery centers that result in the recognition of additional intangible assets would cause an increase in these intangible assets. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate whether facts and circumstances indicate any impairment of value of intangible assets. As circumstances change, we cannot assure you that the value of these intangible assets will be realized by us. If we determine that a significant impairment has occurred, we will be required to write-off the impaired portion of intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the write-off occurs. The IRS may challenge tax deductions for certain acquired goodwill. For federal income tax purposes, goodwill and other intangibles acquired as part of the purchase of a business after August 10, 1993 are deductible over a 15-year period. We have been claiming and continue to take tax deductions for goodwill obtained in our acquisition of assets of practice-based ASCs. In 1997, the IRS published proposed regulations that applied “anti-churning” rules to call into question the deductibility of goodwill purchased in transactions structured similarly to some of our acquisitions. The anti-churning rules are designed to prevent taxpayers from converting existing goodwill for which a deduction would not have been allowable prior to 1993 into an asset that could be deducted over 15 years, such as by selling a business some of the value of which arose prior to 1993 to a related party. On January 25, 2000, the IRS issued final regulations that continue to call into question the deductibility of goodwill purchased in transactions structured similarly to some of our acquisitions. This uncertainty applies only to goodwill that arose in part prior to 1993, so the tax deductions we have taken with respect to interests acquired in surgery centers that were formed after August 10, 1993 are not affected. In response to these final regulations, in 2000 we changed our methods of acquiring interests in practice-based ASCs so as to comply with guidance found in the final regulations. There is a risk that the IRS could challenge tax deductions for pre-1993 goodwill in acquisitions we completed prior to changing our approach. Loss of these tax deductions would increase the amount of our tax payments and could subject us to interest and penalties. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 19 Table of Contents 