Item 1A. Risk Factors – (continued) physician members also guarantee this debt. There can be no assurance that a third-party lender or lessor would seek performance of the guarantees rather than seek repayment from us of any obligation of the limited partnership or limited liability company if there is a default, or that the physician partners or members would have sufficient assets to satisfy their guarantee obligations. We may be subject to liabilities for claims brought against our facilities. We are subject to litigation related to our business practices, including claims and legal actions by patients and others in the ordinary course of business alleging malpractice, product liability or other legal theories. See “Business – Legal Proceedings.” These actions could involve large claims and significant defense costs. If payments for claims exceed our insurance coverage or are not covered by insurance or our insurers fail to meet their obligations, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. We have a legal responsibility to the minority owners of the entities through which we own our surgery centers, which may conflict with our interests and prevent us from acting solely in our own best interests. As the owner of majority interests in the limited partnerships and limited liability companies that own our surgery centers, we owe a fiduciary duty to the noncontrolling interest holders in these entities and may encounter conflicts between our interests and that of the minority holders. In these cases, our representatives on the governing board of each joint venture are obligated to exercise reasonable, good faith judgment to resolve the conflicts and may not be free to act solely in our own best interests. In our role as manager of the limited partnership or limited liability company, we generally exercise our discretion in managing the business of the surgery center. Disputes may arise between us and the physician partners regarding a particular business decision or the interpretation of the provisions of the limited partnership agreement or limited liability company operating agreement. The agreements provide for arbitration as a dispute resolution process in some circumstances. We cannot assure you that any dispute will be resolved or that any dispute resolution will be on terms satisfactory to us. We may write-off intangible assets, such as goodwill. As a result of purchase accounting for our various acquisition transactions, our balance sheet at December 31, 2013 contained an intangible asset designated as goodwill totaling approximately $1.8 billion. Additional purchases of interests in surgery centers that result in the recognition of additional intangible assets would cause an increase in these intangible assets. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate whether facts and circumstances indicate any impairment of the value of intangible assets. As circumstances change, we cannot assure you that the value of these intangible assets will be realized by us. If we determine that a significant impairment has occurred, we will be required to write-off the impaired portion of intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the write-off occurs. The Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) may challenge tax deductions for certain acquired goodwill. For federal income tax purposes, goodwill and other intangibles acquired as part of the purchase of a business are deductible over a 15-year period. In 1997, the IRS published proposed regulations that applied "anti-churning" rules that call into question the deductibility of goodwill purchased in certain types of transactions structured similarly to some of our acquisitions that we had completed through that date. These regulations were finalized in 2000, and in response, we changed our methods of acquiring interests in ASCs so as to comply with guidance found in the final regulations. However, there is a risk that the IRS could challenge tax deductions for goodwill in acquisitions we completed prior to changing our approach. Loss of these tax deductions would increase the amount of our tax payments and could subject us to interest and penalties. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 