Item 1A. Risk Factors - (continued)Table of ContentsDivision in the future. Claims, regardless of their merit or outcome, may also adversely affect our reputation and ability to expand our business.Our captive insurance company is subject to government regulation, and legislative or regulatory action may make our captive insurance company arrangement less feasible or otherwise reduce our profitability. We own a captive insurance company located in a foreign country. Insurance companies are subject to government regulation, the primary purpose of which is generally to protect policyholders and not necessarily to protect creditors and investors. The nature and extent of such regulation typically involve such items as: standards of solvency and minimum amounts of statutory capital surplus that must be maintained, regulation of reinsurance, methods of accounting and filing of annual and other reports with respect to financial condition and other matters. Such regulation may increase our costs of regulatory compliance, restrict our ability to access cash held in our captive insurance company and otherwise impede our ability to take actions we deem advisable.Insurance regulators and other regulatory agencies regularly reexamine existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and their products. Changes in these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the consumer at the expense of the insurer and could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. The use of captive insurance companies in particular has come under scrutiny by insurance regulators in the United States. Any regulatory action that prohibits or limits our use of or materially increases our cost of using our captive reinsurance company, either retroactively or prospectively, could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of our Physician Services Division.The reserves we establish with respect to our losses covered under our insurance programs are subject to inherent uncertainties. In connection with our insurance programs, we establish reserves for losses and related expenses of our Physician Services Division, which represent estimates involving actuarial and statistical projections, at a given point in time, of our expectations of the ultimate resolution and administration costs of losses we have incurred in respect of our liability risks. Insurance reserves inherently are subject to uncertainty. Our reserves are based on historical claims, demographic factors, industry trends, severity and exposure factors and other actuarial assumptions calculated by an independent actuary firm. The independent actuary firm performs studies of projected ultimate losses on an annual basis and provides quarterly updates to those projections. We refer to these actuarial estimates as part of the process by which we determine appropriate reserves. Our reserves could be significantly affected if current and future occurrences differ from historical claim trends and expectations. While we monitor claims closely when we estimate reserves, the complexity of claims and the wide range of potential outcomes may hamper timely adjustments to the assumptions we use in these estimates. Actual losses and related expenses may deviate, individually and in the aggregate, from the reserve estimates reflected in our combined consolidated financial statements. If we determine that our estimated reserves are inadequate, we will be required to increase reserves at the time of the determination, which would result in a reduction in the net income of our Physician Services Division in the period in which the deficiency is determined.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable.