Item 1A. Risk Factors – (continued) specified in each of the limited partnership and operating agreements, which also provide for the payment terms, generally over four years. There can be no assurance, however, that our existing capital resources would be sufficient for us to meet the obligations, if they arise, to purchase these noncontrolling interests held by physicians. The determination of whether a triggering event has occurred generally would be made by the concurrence of our legal counsel and counsel for the physician partners or, in the absence of such concurrence, by a nationally recognized law firm having an expertise in healthcare law jointly selected by both parties. Such determinations therefore would not be within our control. The triggering of these obligations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. While we believe physician ownership of ASCs as structured within our limited partnerships and limited liability companies is in compliance with applicable law, we can give no assurances that legislative or regulatory changes would not have an adverse impact on us. From time to time, the issue of physician ownership in ASCs is considered by some state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies. We are liable for the debts and other obligations of the limited partnerships that own and operate certain of our surgery centers. In the limited partnerships in which one of our affiliates is the general partner, our affiliate is liable for 100% of the debts and other obligations of the limited partnership; however, the physician partners are generally required to guarantee their pro rata share of any indebtedness or lease agreements to which the limited partnership is a party in proportion to their ownership interest in the limited partnership. We also have primary liability for the bank debt that may be incurred for the benefit of the limited liability companies, and in turn, lend funds to these limited liability companies, although the physician members also guarantee this debt. There can be no assurance that a third-party lender or lessor would seek performance of the guarantees rather than seek repayment from us of any obligation of the limited partnership or limited liability company if there is a default, or that the physician partners or members would have sufficient assets to satisfy their guarantee obligations. We may be subject to liabilities for claims brought against our facilities. We are subject to litigation related to our business practices, including claims and legal actions by patients and others in the ordinary course of business alleging malpractice, product liability or other legal theories. See “Business – Legal Proceedings.” These actions could involve large claims and significant defense costs. If payments for claims exceed our insurance coverage or are not covered by insurance or our insurers fail to meet their obligations, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. We have a legal responsibility to the minority owners of the entities through which we own our surgery centers, which may conflict with our interests and prevent us from acting solely in our own best interests. As the owner of majority interests in the limited partnerships and limited liability companies that own our surgery centers, we owe a fiduciary duty to the noncontrolling interest holders in these entities and may encounter conflicts between our interests and that of the minority holders. In these cases, our representatives on the governing board of each joint venture are obligated to exercise reasonable, good faith judgment to resolve the conflicts and may not be free to act solely in our own best interests. In our role as manager of the limited partnership or limited liability company, we generally exercise our discretion in managing the business of the surgery center. Disputes may arise between us and the physician partners regarding a particular business decision or the interpretation of the provisions of the limited partnership agreement or limited liability company operating agreement. The agreements provide for arbitration as a dispute resolution process in some circumstances. We cannot assure you that any dispute will be resolved or that any dispute resolution will be on terms satisfactory to us. We may write-off intangible assets, such as goodwill. As a result of purchase accounting for our various acquisition transactions, our balance sheet at December 31, 2011 contained an intangible asset designated as goodwill totaling approximately $1.2 billion. Additional purchases of interests in surgery centers that result in the recognition of additional intangible assets would cause an increase in these intangible assets. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate whether facts and circumstances indicate any impairment of the value of intangible assets. As circumstances change, we cannot assure you that the value of these intangible assets will be realized by us. If we determine that a significant impairment has occurred, we will be required to write-off the impaired portion of intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the write-off occurs. The IRS may challenge tax deductions for certain acquired goodwill. For federal income tax purposes, goodwill and other intangibles acquired as part of the purchase of a business after August 10, 1993 are deductible over a 15-year period. We have been claiming and continue to take tax deductions for goodwill obtained in our acquisition of assets of and ownership interests in ASCs. In 1997, the IRS published proposed regulations that applied "anti-churning" rules to call into question the deductibility of goodwill purchased in transactions structured similarly to some of our acquisitions. The anti-churning rules are designed to prevent taxpayers from converting existing goodwill for which a deduction would not have been allowable prior to 1993 into an asset that could be deducted over 15 years, such as by selling a business some of the value of which arose prior to 1993 to a related party. On January 25, 2000, the IRS issued final regulations that continue to call into question the deductibility of goodwill purchased in transactions structured similarly to some of our acquisitions. This uncertainty applies only to goodwill that arose in part prior to 1993, so the tax deductions we have taken with respect to interests acquired in surgery centers that were formed after August 10, 1993 are not affected. In response to these final regulations, in 2000 we changed our methods of acquiring interests in ASCs so as to comply with guidance found in the final regulations. There is a risk that the IRS could challenge tax deductions for pre-1993 goodwill in acquisitions we completed prior to changing our approach. Loss of these tax deductions would increase the amount of our tax payments and could subject us to interest and penalties. 19 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 