Item 1A. Risk Factors - (continued)Table of ContentsOur physician services business could be subject to professional liability lawsuits, some of which we may not be fully insured against or reserved for. Physicians, hospitals and other participants in the healthcare industry are subject to lawsuits alleging medical malpractice and related legal theories. Many of these lawsuits involve large claims and substantial defense costs. We maintain professional insurance with third-party insurers generally on a claims-made basis, subject to self-insured retentions, exclusions and other restrictions. A substantial portion of our professional liability loss risks are being provided by a third-party insurer which is fully reinsured by our wholly-owned captive. In addition, our wholly-owned captive provides stop loss coverage for our self-insured employee health program related to our physician services segment. The assets, liabilities and results of operations of our wholly-owned captive insurance company subsidiary are included in our consolidated financial statements. The liabilities for self-insurance include estimates of the ultimate costs related to both reported claims on an individual and aggregate basis and unreported claims. We also obtain professional liability insurance on a claims-made basis from third party insurers for certain of our owned practices and employed physicians.Our reserves for professional liability claims are based upon periodic actuarial calculations. Our reserves for losses and related expenses represent estimates involving actuarial and statistical projections, at a given point in time, of our expectation of the ultimate resolution plus administration costs of the losses that we have incurred. Our reserves are based on historical claims, demographic factors, industry trends, severity and exposure factors and other actuarial assumptions calculated by an independent actuarial firm. The independent actuarial firm performs studies of projected ultimate losses on an annual basis. We refer to these actuarial estimates as part of our process by which we determine appropriate reserves. Liabilities for claims incurred but not reported are not discounted. The estimation of professional liabilities is inherently complex and subjective, as these claims are typically resolved over an extended period of time, often as long as ten years or more. Our reserves could be significantly affected if current and future occurrences differ from historical claim trends and expectations. We periodically reevaluate our reserves for professional liabilities, and our actual results may vary significantly from our estimates as the key assumptions used in our actuarial valuations are subject to constant adjustment as a result of changes in our actual loss history and the movement of projected emergence patterns as claims develop. While we monitor claims closely when we estimate reserves, the complexity of claims and the wide range of potential outcomes may hamper timely adjustments to the assumptions we use in these estimates. Actual losses and related expenses may deviate, individually and in the aggregate, from the reserve estimates reflected in our combined consolidated financial statements. If we determine that our estimated reserves are inadequate, we will be required to increase reserves at the time of the determination, which would result in a reduction in the net income of our physician services segment in the period in which the deficiency is determined.Our captive insurance company is subject to government regulation, and legislative or regulatory action may make our captive insurance company arrangement less feasible or otherwise reduce our profitability. We own a captive insurance company located in a foreign country. Insurance companies are subject to government regulation, the primary purpose of which is generally to protect policyholders and not necessarily to protect creditors and investors. The nature and extent of such regulation typically involve such items as: standards of solvency and minimum amounts of statutory capital surplus that must be maintained, regulation of reinsurance, methods of accounting and filing of annual and other reports with respect to financial condition and other matters. Such regulation may increase our costs of regulatory compliance, restrict our ability to access cash held in our captive insurance company and otherwise impede our ability to take actions we deem advisable.Insurance regulators and other regulatory agencies regularly reexamine existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and their products. Changes in these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the consumer at the expense of the insurer and could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. The use of captive insurance companies in particular has come under scrutiny by insurance regulators in the United States. Any regulatory action that prohibits or limits our use of or materially increases our cost of using our captive reinsurance company, either retroactively or prospectively, could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of our physician services segment.38Table of ContentsItem 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable.