ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves risk, including the risks we describe below. You should consider carefully the following risks, as well as other information in this filing and the incorporated documents, before investing in our common stock. If any of the following risks occur, our results of operations, financial condition and business could be harmed materially and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Risks Related to Our Industry Our revenue is substantially derived from Medicare. Reductions in Medicare rates, rate increases that do not cover cost increases and/or significant changes to the current Medicare reimbursement methodology may adversely affect our business. We generally receive fixed payments from Medicare for our home health services based on the level of care that we provide patients. Reductions to Medicare rates and/or changes in Medicare reimbursement methodology could have an adverse impact on our revenues and profitability. Medicare payments could be reduced as a result of: • changes in the way Medicare pays providers that provide significant therapy services to beneficiaries; or • administrative or legislative changes to the base episode rate; • the elimination or reduction of annual rate increases based on medical inflation; • adjustments to the relative components of the wage index used in determining reimbursement rates; • the imposition by Medicare of co-payments or other mechanisms shifting responsibility for a portion of payment to beneficiaries; • the reclassification of home health resource groups; • other adverse changes to payment rates or payment methodologies. Although current Medicare legislation provides for an annual adjustment of the various payment rates based on increases or decreases in the medical care expenditure category of the Consumer Price Index, this adjustment may be less than actual inflation in any given year or could be reduced or eliminated in any given year. In fact, the home health industry received no increase to the Medicare reimbursement rate in 2006. 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In November 2006, the Office of the Actuary of the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) announced a 3.3% increase to Medicare home health rates for 2007, which will increase the base payment rate to $2,339. In addition, CMS announced the elimination of the 5% rural add on, an additional stipend that we receive for patients in approximately 20% of our markets for episodes beginning after December 31, 2006. Further, 2% of the proposed 3.3% increase is contingent upon home health providers reporting ten clinical quality measures through Outcome and Assessment Information Set (“OASIS”). CMS has collected and published OASIS data since 2003 and has indicated that it is considering using this data to reward providers with superior outcomes. We collect and submit OASIS data for all of our Medicare episodes and believe we provide high-quality services. Based upon a historical trend study evaluating approximately 170,000 episodes during the period October 1, 2005 through September 30, 2006, we believe that the change in the Medicare reimbursement rate will positively impact our Medicare revenues by 1.7% to 1.8% in 2007. We cannot assure you that we will receive Medicare reimbursement rate increases in the future. Overall payments made by Medicare to us for hospice services are subject to two payment limitations, known as hospice caps, calculated by the Medicare fiscal intermediary on an annual basis. Under the first limitation, total Medicare payments to us per provider number are compared to a hospice cap amount that is calculated by multiplying the number of Medicare beneficiaries under that provider number electing hospice care for the first time during the cap period by a statutory amount that is indexed for inflation. The cap amount per Medicare beneficiary for the twelve-month period ending October 31, 2006 is $20,585. We must return any payments in excess of the cap amount to Medicare. The second hospice cap, which is also calculated on a per provider number basis, provides that reimbursement for any in-patient days that exceed 20% of the total in-service days for the particular provider number shall be reimbursed at a lower rate. Our ability to avoid these limitations depends on a number of factors, each determined on a provider-number basis, including the average length of stay and mix in level of care. Revenue and profitability associated with our hospice operations may be materially reduced if we are unable to avoid triggering these and other Medicare payment limitations. As we expand our hospice operations, we cannot be certain that we will not exceed the cap amounts in the future. Thus, we cannot assure you that these limitations will not negatively affect our profitability on a company-wide basis in the future. Further, for our hospice patients receiving nursing home care under certain state Medicaid programs who elect hospice care under Medicare or Medicaid, the state must pay us, in addition to the applicable Medicare or Medicaid hospice per diem rate, an amount equal to at least 95% of the Medicaid per diem nursing home rate for “room and board” furnished to the patient by the nursing home. We contract with various nursing homes for the nursing homes’ provision of certain “room and board” services that the nursing homes would otherwise provide Medicaid nursing home patients. We bill and must collect from the applicable state Medicaid program an amount equal to at least 95% of the amount that would otherwise have been paid directly to the nursing home under the state’s Medicaid plan. Under our standard nursing home contracts, we generally pay the nursing home for these “room and board” services in advance of reimbursement from Medicaid at 100% of the Medicaid per diem nursing home rate. Approximately 40% of our hospice patients reside in nursing homes. Consequently, the reduction or elimination of Medicare payments for hospice patients residing in nursing homes, our ability to collect for these services or any change in our ability to provide service to such patients would significantly reduce the net patient service revenue and profitability related to our hospice operations or may have an adverse effect on our bad debt expense. If any of our agencies fail to comply with the conditions of participation in the Medicare program, that agency could be terminated from the Medicare program, which would adversely affect our net patient service revenue and profitability. Each of our home health and hospice agencies must comply with the extensive conditions required of participation in the Medicare program. If any of our agencies fail to meet the Medicare conditions of participation, that agency may receive a notice of deficiency from the applicable state surveyor. If that agency then fails to institute a plan of correction to remediate the deficiency within the correction period provided by the 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements state surveyor, that agency could be terminated from the Medicare program. Any termination of one or more of our home health agencies from the Medicare program for failure to satisfy the program’s conditions of participation could adversely affect our net service revenue and profitability. CMS has announced that it is currently revising the Medicare conditions of participation for home health, with publication expected no earlier than the second half of 2007. We do not know at this time what effect the revisions will have on our operations, and there can be no assurances that the revisions will not negatively affect our profitability. In addition, we are subject to various routine and non-routine reviews, audits and investigations by the Medicare and Medicaid programs and other federal and state governmental agencies. Violation of the laws governing our operations, or changes in interpretations of those laws, could result in the imposition of fines, civil or criminal penalties, the termination of our rights to participate in federal and state-sponsored programs and/or the suspension or revocation of our licenses. If we become subject to material fines or if other sanctions or other corrective actions are imposed on us, we might suffer a substantial reduction in profitability. We are subject to extensive government regulation. Any changes to the laws and regulations governing our business, or the interpretation and enforcement of those laws or regulations, could cause us to modify our operations and could negatively impact our operating results. The federal government and the states in which we operate regulate our industry extensively. The laws and regulations governing our operations, along with the terms of participation in various government programs, regulate how we do business, the services we offer and our interactions with patients and the public and impose certain requirements on us relating to, among other things: • licensure and certification; • adequacy and quality of health care services; • qualifications of health care and support personnel; • quality of medical equipment; • confidentiality, maintenance and security issues associated with medical records and claims processing; • relationships with physicians and other referral sources; • operating policies and procedures; • addition of facilities and services; and • billing for services. These laws and regulations, and their interpretations, are subject to frequent change. Changes in existing laws and regulations, or their interpretations, or the enactment of new laws or regulations could reduce our profitability by: • increasing our liability; • increasing our administrative and other costs; • increasing or decreasing mandated services; • forcing us to restructure our relationships with referral sources and providers; or • requiring us to implement additional or different programs and systems. For example, Congress enacted the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”), which mandates that provider organizations enhance privacy protections for patient health information. This requires companies like us to develop, maintain and monitor administrative, information and security systems to prevent inappropriate release of protected health information. Compliance with this law has added, and will continue to add, costs that affect our profitability. Failure to comply with HIPAA’s privacy and security requirements could result in substantial fines and penalties. 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements If we are unable to maintain relationships with existing patient referral sources or to establish new referral sources, our growth and profitability could be adversely affected. Our success depends significantly on referrals from physicians, hospitals and other patient referral sources in the communities that our agencies serve, as well as on our ability to maintain good relationships with these referral sources. Our referral sources are not contractually obligated to refer home health or hospice patients to us and may refer their patients to other providers. Our growth and profitability depend on our ability to establish and maintain close working relationships with these patient referral sources and to increase awareness and acceptance of the benefits of home health and hospice care by our referral sources and their patients. We may not be able to maintain our existing referral source relationships or develop and maintain new relationships in existing or new markets. Our loss of, or failure to maintain, existing relationships or our failure to develop new referral relationships could adversely affect our ability to expand our operations and operate profitably. We are subject to federal and state laws that govern our financial relationships with physicians and other health care providers, including potential or current referral sources. We are required to comply with federal and state laws, generally referred to as “anti-kickback laws,” that prohibit certain direct and indirect payments or other financial arrangements between health care providers that are designed to encourage the referral of patients to a particular provider for medical services. In addition to these anti-kickback laws, the Federal government has enacted specific regulations, commonly known as the “Stark law”, that prohibit certain financial relationships, specifically including ownership interests and compensation arrangements, between physicians and providers of designated health services, such as home health agencies, to whom said physicians refer patients. Some of these same financial relationships are subject to regulation by the individual states as well. Under both the anti-kickback law and Stark law, there are a number of safe harbors that permit certain, carefully constrained relationships. Amedisys avails itself of these safe harbors in several instances. For example, we currently have contractual relationships with certain physicians who provide consulting services to our Company. Many of these physicians are current or potential referral sources. In addition, in some of our local markets, we lease office space from physicians who may also be referral sources. We cannot assure you that courts or regulatory agencies will not interpret state and federal anti-kickback laws and state laws regulating relationships between health care providers in ways that will implicate our practices. Violations of these laws could lead to fines or sanctions that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be subject to substantial malpractice or other similar claims. The services we offer involve an inherent risk of professional liability and related substantial damage awards. As of December 31, 2006, we had over 4,500 direct care employees working for our home health agencies and over 275 direct care employees working for our hospice agencies. In addition, we employ direct care workers on a contractual basis. On any given day, the majority of these nurses, therapists and other direct care personnel are driving to and from patients’ homes where they deliver medical and other care. Due to the nature of our business, we and the caregivers who provide services on our behalf may be the subject of medical malpractice claims. These caregivers could be considered our agents, and, as a result, we could be held liable for their medical negligence. We cannot predict the effect that any claims of this nature, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have on our business or reputation or on our ability to attract and retain patients and employees. We maintain malpractice liability insurance and are responsible for amounts in excess of the limits of our coverage. An economic downturn, continued deficit spending by the federal government and state budget pressures in states in which we operate could result in a reduction in reimbursement and covered services. The existing federal deficit, as well as deficit spending by the government as the result of adverse developments in the economy or other reasons, could lead to increased pressure to reduce government expenditures for other purposes, including governmentally funded programs in which we participate, such as Medicare and Medicaid. Such actions in turn could adversely affect our results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements An economic downturn could have a detrimental effect on our revenues. Historically, state budget pressures have translated into reductions in state spending. Given that Medicaid outlays are a significant component of state budgets, we can expect continuing cost containment pressures on Medicaid outlays for our services in the states in which we operate. In addition, an economic downturn may also affect the number of enrollees in managed care programs as well as the profitability of managed care companies, which could result in reduced reimbursement rates. Our industry is highly competitive, with relatively few barriers to entry in some markets. Our home health agencies compete with local and regional home health companies, hospitals, nursing homes and other businesses that provide home health services, some of which are large established companies that have significantly greater resources than we do. In addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry in some of the home health services markets in which we operate. Our primary competition comes from local companies in each of our markets and these privately owned or hospital-owned health care providers vary by region and market. We compete based on the availability of personnel; the quality, expertise and value of our services; and in select instances, on the price of our services. Increased competition in the future from existing competitors or new entrants may limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share. Some of our existing and potential new competitors may enjoy greater name recognition and greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. This may permit our competitors to devote greater resources than we can to the development and promotion of services. These competitors may undertake more far-reaching and effective marketing campaigns and may offer more attractive opportunities to existing and potential employees and services to referral sources. We expect our competitors to develop new strategic relationships with providers, referral sources and payors, which could result in increased competition. The introduction of new and enhanced service offerings, in combination with industry consolidation and the development of strategic relationships by our competitors, could cause a decline in revenue or loss of market acceptance of our services or make our services less attractive. Additionally, we compete with a number of non-profit organizations that can finance acquisitions and capital expenditures on a tax-exempt basis or receive charitable contributions that are unavailable to us. Managed care organizations and other third-party payors have continued to consolidate in order to enhance their ability to influence the delivery of health care services. Consequently, the health care needs of a large percentage of the United States population are increasingly served by a smaller number of managed care organizations. These organizations generally enter into service agreements with a limited number of providers for needed services. To the extent that such organizations terminate us as a provider and/or engage our competitors as a preferred or exclusive provider, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, private payors, including managed care payors, could seek to negotiate additional discounted fee structures or the assumption by health care providers of all or a portion of the financial risk through prepaid capitation arrangements, thereby potentially reducing our profitability. We expect that industry forces will continue to have an impact on our business and that of our competitors. In recent years, the health care industry has undergone significant changes driven by efforts to reduce costs and we expect these cost containment measures to continue in the future. Frequent regulatory changes in our industry, including reductions in reimbursement rates and changes in services covered, have increased competition among home health providers. If we are unable to react competitively to new developments, our operating results may suffer. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures will not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements State efforts to regulate the establishment or expansion of health care providers could impair our ability to expand our operations. Some states require health care providers (including skilled nursing facilities, hospices, home health agencies and assisted living facilities) to obtain prior approval, known as a certificate of need, or CON, or as it is referred to in some states, a permit of approval, or POA, for: • the purchase, establishment or expansion of health care facilities; • capital expenditures exceeding a prescribed amount; or • changes in services or bed capacity. To the extent that we require a CON, POA or other similar approvals to expand our operations, either by acquiring facilities or expanding or providing new services or other changes, our expansion could be adversely affected by the failure or inability to obtain the necessary approvals, changes in the standards applicable to those approvals and possible delays and expenses associated with obtaining those approvals. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain a CON or POA for all future projects requiring that approval. Additionally, our ability to expand operations in a state will depend on our ability to obtain a state license to operate. States may have a limit on the number of licenses they issue. For example, as of December 31, 2006, we operated 11 home health agencies and one hospice agency in Louisiana. Louisiana currently has a moratorium on the issuance of new home health agency licenses through July 1, 2008. We cannot predict whether this moratorium will be extended beyond this date or whether any other states in which we currently operate, or may wish to operate in the future, may adopt a similar moratorium. Our failure to obtain any license, CON or POA could impair our ability to operate or expand our business. A shortage of qualified registered nursing staff and other caregivers could adversely affect our ability to attract, train and retain qualified personnel and could increase operating costs. We rely significantly on our ability to attract and retain caregivers who possess the skills, experience and licenses necessary to meet the requirements of our patients. We compete for personnel with other providers of home health and hospice services. Our ability to attract and retain caregivers depends on several factors, including our ability to provide these caregivers with attractive assignments and competitive benefits and salaries. We cannot assure you that we will succeed in any of these areas. In addition, there are occasional shortages of qualified health care personnel in some of the markets in which we operate. As a result, we may face higher costs of attracting caregivers and providing them with attractive benefit packages than we originally anticipated, and, if that occurs, our profitability could decline. Finally, although this is currently not a significant factor in our existing markets, if we expand our operations into geographic areas where health care providers historically have unionized, we cannot assure you that negotiating collective bargaining agreements will not have a negative effect on our ability to timely and successfully recruit qualified personnel. Generally, if we are unable to attract and retain caregivers, the quality of our services may decline and we could lose patients and referral sources. Risks Related to Our Business Our revenue is substantially derived from Medicare. Reductions in Medicare rates, rate increases that do not cover cost increases and/or significant changes to the current Medicare reimbursement methodology may adversely affect our business. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, we received 93% of our revenue from Medicare. We generally receive fixed payments from Medicare for our home health services based on the level of care that we provide patients. Consequently, our profitability largely depends upon our ability to manage the cost of providing those services. 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Future cost containment initiatives undertaken by private third-party payors may limit our future revenues and profitability. Our non-Medicare revenues and profitability also are affected by the continuing efforts of third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care by lowering reimbursement rates, narrowing the scope of covered services, increasing case management review of services and negotiating reduced contract pricing. Any changes in reimbursement levels from these third-party payor sources and any changes in applicable government regulations could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. There is no guarantee that third-party payors will provide us with timely payments for our services. We can provide no assurance that we will continue to maintain our current payor or revenue mix. Migration of our Medicare beneficiary patients to Medicare managed care providers could negatively impact our operating results. Historically, we have generated the majority of our revenue from the Medicare fee-for-service market. Under the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of December 2003, however, Congress allocated significant additional funds and other incentives to Medicare managed care providers in order to promote greater participation in those plans by Medicare beneficiaries. If these increased funding levels have the intended result, the size of the potential Medicare fee-for-service market could decline, thereby reducing the size of our potential patient population, which could cause our operating results to suffer. Our allowance for contractual adjustments and doubtful accounts may not be sufficient to cover uncollectible amounts. On an ongoing basis, we estimate the amount of Medicare, Medicaid and private insurance receivables that we will not be able to collect. This allows us to calculate the expected loss on our receivables for the period we are reporting. Our allowance for contractual adjustments and doubtful accounts may underestimate actual unpaid receivables for various reasons, including: • adverse changes in our estimates as a result of changes in payor mix and related collection rates; • inability to collect funds due to missed filing deadlines or inability to prove that timely filings were made; • adverse changes in the economy generally exceeding our expectations; or • unanticipated changes in reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid and private insurance companies. If our allowance for contractual adjustments and doubtful accounts is insufficient to cover losses on our receivables, our business, financial position or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Delays in reimbursement may cause liquidity problems. Our business is characterized by delays in reimbursement from the time we provide services to the time we receive reimbursement or payment for these services. If we have difficulty in obtaining documentation, such as physician orders, information system problems or issues that arise with Medicare or other providers, we may encounter additional delays in our payment cycle. Timing delays may cause working capital shortages. Working capital management, including prompt and diligent billing and collection, is an important factor in achieving our financial results and maintaining liquidity. It is possible that documentation support, system problems, Medicare or other provider issues or industry trends may extend our collection period, adversely impacting our working capital, and that our working capital management procedures may not successfully negate this risk. A provision in the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, which was passed by Congress earlier this year, caused a brief delay in reimbursement to our home health agencies by Medicare. The provision stipulated that CMS make no payments on Medicare home health claims during the last nine days of the federal fiscal year, which ended 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements September 30, 2006. No interest was accrued or paid by CMS; and no late penalties were paid to providers for delays in payment due to this hold. As a result of the hold, the timing of our cash flows was negatively impacted and $13.6 million of payments we would have received over the last nine days of September were delayed until October 2, 2006. We may experience delays in reimbursement in the future that may cause us liquidity problems. Our hospice operations may also experience reimbursement delays. Our hospice operations bill various state Medicaid programs for “room and board” associated with hospice patients residing in nursing homes that we routinely pay in advance of receipt of payment from the provider. In addition, we have experienced timing delays when attempting to collect funds from state Medicaid programs in certain instances. Delays in receiving reimbursement or payments from these programs may adversely impact our working capital. Our growth strategy depends on our ability to manage growing and changing operations. Our business has grown significantly in size and complexity in recent years. Our internal growth rate for Medicare patient admissions was approximately 13%, 18% and 28% for 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. This growth has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our management systems, internal controls and financial and professional resources. In addition, we will need to further develop our financial controls and reporting systems to accommodate future growth. This could require us to incur expenses for hiring additional qualified personnel, retaining professionals to assist in developing the appropriate control systems and expanding our information technology infrastructure. Our inability to manage growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Our growth strategy depends on our ability to open agencies, acquire additional agencies on favorable terms and integrate and operate these agencies effectively. If our growth strategy is unsuccessful or we are not able to successfully integrate newly acquired or opened agencies into our existing operations, our future results could be adversely impacted. We expect to continue to open agencies in our existing and new markets. Our new agency growth, however, will depend on several factors, including our ability to: • obtain locations for agencies in markets where need exists; • identify and hire a sufficient number of appropriately trained home health and other health care professionals; • obtain adequate financing to fund growth; and • operate successfully under applicable government regulations. We are focusing significant time and resources on the acquisition of home health and hospice agencies, or of certain of their assets, in targeted markets. Not only do we face competition for acquisition candidates, which may limit the number of acquisition opportunities available to us and may lead to higher acquisition prices, but we may also be unable to identify, negotiate and complete suitable acquisition opportunities on reasonable terms. Additionally, acquisitions involve significant risks and uncertainties, including difficulties in recouping partial episode payments and other types of misdirected payments for services from the previous owners, difficulties integrating acquired personnel and business practices into our business, the potential loss of key employees or patients of acquired agencies, and the assumption of liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired agencies. We may not be able to fully integrate the operations of the acquired businesses with our current business structure in an efficient and cost-effective manner. The failure to effectively integrate any of these businesses could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our acquisitions may impose strains on our existing resources. As a result of our past and current acquisition strategy, we have grown significantly over the last two years. As we continue to add acquisition-related revenue and expand our markets, our growth could strain our 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements resources, including management, information systems, regulatory compliance, logistics and other controls. We cannot assure you that our resources will keep pace with our anticipated growth. If we do not manage our expected growth effectively, our future results could be adversely affected. Our inability to effectively integrate, manage and keep secure our information systems could disrupt our operations. Our business depends on effective and secure information systems that assist us in, among other things, monitoring utilization and other cost factors, processing claims, reporting financial results, measuring outcomes and quality of care, managing regulatory compliance controls and maintaining operational efficiencies. These systems include software developed in-house and systems provided by external contractors and other service providers. To the extent that these external contractors or other service providers become insolvent or fail to support the software or systems, our operations could be negatively affected. Our agencies also depend upon our information systems for accounting, billing, collections, risk management, quality assurance, payroll and other information. If we experience a reduction in the performance, reliability, or availability of our information systems, our operations and ability to produce timely and accurate reports could be adversely affected. Our information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading and enhancement to meet our operational needs. Our acquisition activity requires transitions and integration of various information systems. We regularly upgrade and expand our information systems’ capabilities. If we experience difficulties with the transition and integration of information systems or are unable to implement, maintain, or expand our systems properly, we could suffer from, among other things, operational disruptions, regulatory problems and increases in administrative expenses. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches, including unauthorized access to patient data stored in our information systems, and the introduction of computer viruses to our systems. Our security measures may be inadequate to prevent security breaches and our business operations would be negatively impacted by cancellation of contracts and loss of patients if security breaches are not prevented. We are implementing a new PoC system that includes providing laptop computers to our staff. We anticipate that laptops will be provided to all of our full-time home health visiting clinicians by the later half of 2007. We have installed privacy protection systems and devices on our network and the PoC laptops in an attempt to prevent unauthorized access to information in our database. However, our technology may fail to adequately secure the confidential health information we maintain in our databases and protect it from theft or inadvertent leakage. In such circumstances, we may be held liable to our patients and regulators, which could result in litigation or adverse publicity that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Even if we are not held liable, any resulting negative publicity could harm our business and distract the attention of management. Further, our information systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins and similar events. A failure to restore our information systems after the occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because of the confidential health information we store and transmit, loss of electronically stored information for any reason could expose us to a risk of regulatory action, litigation, possible liability and loss. Failure of, or problems with, our clinical software system could harm our business and operating results. We have developed and utilize a proprietary Windows-based clinical software system to collect assessment data, schedule and log patient visits, generate medical orders and monitor treatments and outcomes in accordance with established medical standards. The system integrates billing and collections functionality as well as accounting, human resource, payroll and employee benefits programs provided by third parties. Problems with, 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements or the failure of, our technology and systems could negatively impact data capture, billing, collections, assessment of internal controls and management and reporting capabilities. Any such problems or failures could adversely affect our operations and reputation, result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to provide our services in the future. The costs incurred in correcting any errors or problems may be substantial and could adversely affect our profitability. We depend on outside software providers. We depend on the proper functioning and availability of our information systems in operating our business, some of which are provided by outside software providers. These information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading and enhancement to meet our operational needs. If our providers are unable to maintain or expand our information systems properly, we could suffer from operational disruptions and an increase in administrative expenses, among other things. We are operating under a Corporate Integrity Agreement. Violations of that agreement could result in penalties or exclusion from participation in the Medicare program. In 1999, we uncovered certain improprieties stemming from the unauthorized conduct of an agency director in an agency we had acquired in Monroe, Louisiana. We self-reported these improprieties to the Office of the Inspector General, or OIG. Following an extensive series of audits, we reached a settlement with the federal government in August 2003, whereby we agreed to repay approximately $1.2 million to the government in three annual payments, the last of which we made in August 2005. As part of the settlement, we also executed a three-year Corporate Integrity Agreement (“CIA”), which required, among other things, that we (1) maintain our training and compliance programs; (2) provide additional, specific training in certain areas; (3) conduct annual, independent audits of the Monroe agency; and (4) make timely disclosure of, and repay, overpayments resulting from any potential fraud or abuse of which we became aware. The term of the CIA expired on August 11, 2006. Notwithstanding this expiration, we have continuing obligations under the CIA. For example, we are required to submit final annual reports and audits, must grant the OIG inspection and review rights for 120 days post-filing of the final annual report, and must retain records of our compliance with the CIA through August 2010. We may become subject to other such settlements or agreements in the future. Our compliance with state and federal fraud and abuse provisions and regulations may be subject to future government review and interpretation and possible regulatory actions currently unknown or unasserted. If we are found to be in violation of any of these provisions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. We also operate our agencies under licenses issued and regulated by the respective states in which they are located. Each agency is subject to periodic surveys and complaint-based surveys. If a survey identifies violations of state standards, the agency typically is afforded a grace period in which to comply or otherwise lose its license to operate. If we are found to be in violation of any of these state standards, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our insurance liability coverage may not be sufficient for our business needs. We maintain professional liability insurance for us and our subsidiaries. However, we cannot assure you that claims will not be made in the future in excess of the limits of such insurance, nor can we assure you that any such claims, if successful and in excess of such limits, will not have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct business or on our assets. Our insurance coverage also includes fire, property damage and general liability with varying limits. We cannot assure you that the insurance we maintain will satisfy claims made against us. In addition, as a result of operating in the home health industry, our business entails an inherent risk of claims, losses and potential lawsuits alleging incidents involving our employees that are likely to occur in a patient’s home. We cannot assure you that insurance coverage will continue to be available to us at commercially reasonable rates, in adequate amounts or on satisfactory terms. 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Any claims made against us, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, could damage our reputation and business. From December 31, 1998 to November 9, 2000, we were insured for risks associated with professional and general liability by an insurance company that currently is in liquidation under federal bankruptcy laws and may not be able to pay or defend claims incurred by us during this period, and our current insurance does not cover any such claims. We do not, however, believe that the ultimate resolution of current claims will be materially different from reserves established for them or that any material claims will be made in the future based on occurrences during that period. We are self-insured against certain potential liabilities and our insurance reserves may be inadequate if unexpected losses occur. We are self-insured for health insurance and workers’ compensation claims up to $150,000 and $250,000, respectively, per incident and maintain appropriate reserves to cover anticipated payments. Insurance reserves are recorded based on estimates made by management and validated by third party actuaries on a quarterly basis to ensure such estimates are within acceptable ranges. Actuarial estimates are based on detailed analyses of health care cost trends, mortality rates, claims history, demographics, industry trends and federal and state law. As a result, the amount of reserve and related expense may be significantly affected by the outcome of these studies. Calculation of the estimated accrued liability for self-insured claims remains subject to inherent liability and significant and adverse changes in the experience of claims settlement and other underlying assumptions could negatively impact operating results. We have established reserves for Medicare liabilities that may be payable by us in the future. These liabilities may be subject to audit or further review, and we may owe additional amounts beyond what we expect and have reserved for. Prior to the implementation of the PPS on October 1, 2000, we recorded Medicare revenue at the lower of: (1) actual costs, (2) the per-visit cost limit, or (3) a per-beneficiary cost limit on an individual provider basis. We determined ultimate reimbursement upon review of annual cost reports. As of December 31, 2006, we have estimated an aggregate payable to Medicare of $6.1 million, all of which is reflected as a current liability in our consolidated financial statements. The $6.1 million liability has two components: a cost report adjustments reserve ($5.1 million) and PPS payment adjustments reserve ($1.0 million). If actual amounts exceed our reserves, we may incur additional costs that may adversely affect our results of operations. Cost Report Adjustments Reserve. The recorded $5.1 million cost report adjustments reserve relates to cost report reserves filed prior to the implementation of the PPS. The reserve includes: (1) a $3.1 million obligation of a wholly owned subsidiary that is currently in bankruptcy and which we could be responsible for if the debt of the subsidiary is not discharged in bankruptcy, (2) a balance of $0.1 million, which represents the final payment to settle certain 1999 and 2000 cost reports that will be remitted in the near future and (3) a balance of $1.9 million that reflects our estimate of amounts likely to be assessed by Medicare as overpayments in respect of prior years when Medicare audits of our cost reports through October 2000 are completed. We cannot be sure that we have accurately evaluated this liability and estimated an appropriate reserve. PPS Payment Adjustments Reserve. The remaining balance of $1.0 million is related to notice from CMS that it intends to seek recovery of overpayments that were made for patients who had, within 14 days of a readmission to home health prior to the expiry of 60 days from the previous admission date at another home health agency, been discharged from inpatient facilities, including hospitals, rehabilitation and skilled nursing units for the periods dating from the implementation of the PPS on October 1, 2000 through particular dates in 2003 and 2004. We cannot be sure that we have accurately evaluated this liability and estimated an appropriate reserve. If we must write off a significant amount of intangible assets or long-lived assets, our earnings will be negatively impacted. Because we have grown in part through acquisitions, goodwill and other acquired intangible assets represent a substantial portion of our assets. Goodwill was approximately $213.0 million as of December 31, 2006. If we 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements make additional acquisitions, it is likely that we will record additional intangible assets to our consolidated financial statements. We also have long-lived assets consisting of property and equipment and other identifiable intangible assets of $65.7 million as of December 31, 2006, which we review both on a periodic basis as well as when events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If a determination that a significant impairment in value of our unamortized intangible assets or long-lived assets occurs, such determination could require us to write off a substantial portion of our assets. Such a write off would negatively affect our earnings. We depend on the services of our executive officers and other key employees. Our success depends upon the continued employment of certain members of our senior management team, including our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, William F. Borne and our President and Chief Operating Officer, Larry R. Graham. We maintain key employee life insurance of $4.5 million on Mr. Borne’s life and have entered into employment agreements with Mr. Borne and Mr. Graham. Our operations could be affected by natural disasters or terrorist acts. Our corporate office and a substantial number of our agencies are located in the Southeastern United States and the Gulf Coast Region, increasing our exposure to hurricanes and other natural disasters. The occurrence of natural disasters in the markets in which we operate could not only affect the day-to-day operations of our agencies, but could also disrupt our relationships with patients, employees and referral sources located in the affected areas and, in the case of our corporate office, our ability to provide administrative support services, including, for example, billing and collection services. In addition, any episode of care that is not completed due to the impact of a natural disaster will generally result in lower revenue for the episode. For example, in late August and early September 2005, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita impacted our agencies, employees and patients located in Southern Louisiana and Southern Mississippi. To date, only one of our agencies affected by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, located in Chalmette, Louisiana, has not reopened. Also, for a period of time after the hurricane, other agencies located in the Louisiana Gulf Coast Region operated at lower capacities and our corporate headquarters was adversely impacted as employees domiciled in affected areas recovered from the disaster. We cannot assure you that hurricanes or other natural disasters will not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations in the future. In addition, the occurrence of terrorist acts and the erosion to our business caused by such an occurrence, could adversely affect our profitability. In the affected areas, our offices could be forced to close for limited or extended periods of time. We may be held responsible for some or all of the $4.2 million liability of a bankrupt subsidiary. We consolidate the net liabilities of Alliance Home Health, Inc., or Alliance, a bankrupt subsidiary that is no longer in operation, in our consolidated financial statements. Alliance was acquired in 1998 and ceased operations in 1999. Alliance filed for Chapter 7 federal bankruptcy protection with the United States Bankruptcy Court in the Northern District of Oklahoma on September 29, 2000. A trustee was appointed for Alliance in 2001. On January 29, 2007, a federal judge from the United States Bankruptcy Court in the Northern District of Oklahoma (“bankruptcy court”) overseeing the 1998 Chapter 7 federal bankruptcy protection proceedings for Alliance Home Health, Inc. issued an order approving a proposed distribution of funds to creditors. The case is still subject to the issuance of a final closing order, at which time we will be informed of our final obligation, if any. Until such time as the final closing order is issued, we will continue to consolidate the Alliance contingencies that net to a $4.2 million dollar liability. 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may be volatile and this may adversely affect our stockholders. The price at which our common stock trades may be volatile. The stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of securities, particularly securities of health care companies. The market price of our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including: • our operating and financial performance; • variances in our quarterly financial results compared to research analyst expectations; • the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; • future sales of common stock or the perception that sales could occur; • investor and analyst perception of our business and our prospects; • developments relating to litigation or governmental investigations; • changes or proposed changes in health care laws or regulations or enforcement of these laws and regulations, or announcements relating to these matters; • departure of key personnel; • changes in the Medicare, Medicaid and private insurance reimbursement rates for home health and hospice; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; or • general economic and stock market conditions. In addition, the stock market in general, and the NASDAQ Global Select Market in particular, has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of health care provider companies. These broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, securities class-action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their respective securities. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation of this type is often expensive to defend and may divert our management team’s attention as well as resources from the operation of our business. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the availability of those shares for future sale, could adversely affect our stock price and limit our ability to raise capital. At December 31, 2006, 25,798,723 shares of our common stock were outstanding. There are 64,144 shares of our common stock that may be issued under our 1998 employee stock purchase plan. As of December 31, 2006, 172,583 shares of our common stock were issuable upon the exercise of stock options which were outstanding but not exercisable, 934,648 shares of our common stock were issuable upon the exercise of stock options which were outstanding and exercisable, and 50,667 shares of our common stock were issuable upon the exercise of outstanding warrants. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public or the perception that substantial sales could occur. These sales also may make it more difficult for us to sell common stock in the future to raise capital. In the past we have had to defend class action lawsuits, and there is no assurance that we will not face similar suits in the future that could require us to pay substantial damage awards. On August 23 and October 4, 2001, two class action lawsuits, which were later consolidated, were filed on behalf of all purchasers of our common stock between November 15, 2000 and June 13, 2001, against us and 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements three of our executive officers, in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Louisiana. The suits sought damages based on the decline in our stock price following an announced restatement of earnings for the fourth quarter of 2000 and first quarter of 2001, alleging that our management knew or were reckless in not knowing the facts giving rise to the restatement. On June 28, 2006, we entered into a settlement agreement for $350,000 with the ten individual plaintiffs in these two lawsuits. On July 5, 2006, the United States District Court for the Middle District of Louisiana issued an order dismissing the consolidated lawsuits. We cannot assure you that we will not face similar suits in the future that could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Our Board of Directors may use anti-takeover provisions or issue stock to discourage control contests. Our Certificate of Incorporation currently authorizes us to issue up to 30,000,000 shares of common stock and 5,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock. Our Board of Directors may cause us to issue additional stock to discourage an attempt to obtain control of the Company. For example, shares of stock could be sold to purchasers who might support the Board of Directors in a control contest or to dilute the voting or other rights of a person seeking to obtain control. In addition, the Board of Directors could cause us to issue Preferred Stock entitling holders to: • vote separately on any proposed transaction; • convert preferred stock into common stock; • demand redemption at a specified price in connection with a change in control; or • exercise other rights designed to impede a takeover. The issuance of additional shares may, among other things, dilute the earnings and equity per share of our common stock and the voting rights of common stockholders. We have implemented other anti-takeover provisions or provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect, including: (1) advance notice requirements for director nominations and stockholder proposals and (2) a stockholder rights plan, also known as a “poison pill.” These provisions, and others that the Board of Directors may adopt hereafter, may discourage offers to acquire us and may permit our Board of Directors to choose not to entertain offers to purchase us, even if such offers include a substantial premium to the market price of our stock. Therefore, our stockholders may be deprived of opportunities to profit from a sale of control. 