ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks described below could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this Form 10-K. The risk factors described below are not the only risks faced by Amedisys. Our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may also be materially adversely affected by factors that are not currently known to us, by factors that we currently consider immaterial or by factors that are not specific to us, such as general economic conditions. If any of the following risks are actually realized, our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. You should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements under “Special Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements.” All forward-looking statements made by us are qualified by the risk factors described below. Risks Related to Our Business Because our revenue is substantially derived from Medicare, reductions in Medicare rates, rate increases that do not cover cost increases and/or significant changes to the Medicare payment methodology could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our net service revenue is primarily derived from Medicare, which accounted for 87%, 89% and 93% of our revenue during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Payments received are subject to changes made through Federal legislation. These changes, as further detailed in Item 1, “Payment for Our Services,” can include changes to base episode payments for home health services and changes to cap limits and per diem rates for hospice services. When such changes are implemented, we must modify our internal billing processes and procedures accordingly, which can require significant time and expense. Any such changes, including retroactive adjustments, adopted in the future by Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Because we are limited in our ability to control rates received for our services, our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected if Medicare or any of our other payors reduce the amounts that are paid for our services and/or we are not able to maintain or improve upon our costs to provide such services. As Medicare is our primary payor and rates are established through Federal legislation, we have to manage our costs of providing care. Additionally, non-Medicare rates are difficult for us to negotiate as such payors are under pressure to reduce their own costs. As a result, our profitability is dependent on our ability to manage our costs including, but not limited to, centralization of various processes, the use of technology and management of the number of employees utilized. If we are not able to continue to streamline our processes and reduce our costs, our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Our growth strategy depends on our ability to open agencies, acquire additional agencies on favorable terms and integrate and operate these agencies effectively. If our growth strategy is unsuccessful or we are not able to successfully integrate newly acquired or opened agencies into our existing operations, our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We expect to continue to open agencies in existing and new markets. Our new agency growth, however, will depend on several factors, including our ability to: • obtain locations for agencies in markets where need exists; • identify and hire a sufficient number of appropriately trained professionals; 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • obtain adequate financing to fund growth; and • operate successfully under applicable government regulations. We focus significant time and resources on acquisitions of agencies, or on some of their assets, in targeted markets. Not only do we face competition for acquisition candidates, but we may also be unable to identify, negotiate and complete suitable acquisition opportunities on favorable terms. As we continue to add acquisition-related revenue and expand our markets, our growth could strain our resources, including management, information systems, regulatory compliance, logistics and other controls. This could require us to incur expenses for hiring additional qualified personnel, retaining professionals to assist in developing the appropriate control systems and expanding our information technology infrastructure. Additionally, acquisitions involve significant risks and uncertainties, including difficulties in recouping partial episode payments and other types of misdirected payments for services from the previous owners; difficulties integrating acquired personnel and business practices into our business; the potential loss of key employees or patients of acquired agencies; the delay in payments associated with change in ownership, control and the internal process of the Medicare fiscal intermediary; and the assumption of liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired agencies. We may not be able to fully integrate the operations of the acquired businesses with our current business structure in an efficient and cost-effective manner. The failure to effectively integrate any of these businesses could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to extensive government regulation. Any changes to the laws and regulations governing our business, or to the interpretation and enforcement of those laws or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Extensive Federal and state laws and regulations regulate our industry. See Item 1, “Our Regulatory Environment” for additional information on such laws and regulations. Federal and state laws and regulations impact how we conduct our business, the services we offer and our interactions with patients and the public and impose certain requirements on us such as: • licensure and certification; • adequacy and quality of health care services; • qualifications of health care and support personnel; • quality and safety of medical equipment; • confidentiality, maintenance and security issues associated with medical records and claims processing; • relationships with physicians and other referral sources; • operating policies and procedures; • addition of facilities and services; and • billing for services. These laws and regulations, and their interpretations, are subject to change. Changes in existing laws and regulations, or their interpretations, or the enactment of new laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows by: • increasing our liability; • increasing our administrative and other costs; • increasing or decreasing mandated services; • forcing us to restructure our relationships with referral sources and providers; or • requiring us to implement additional or different programs and systems. 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Additionally, we are subject to various routine and non-routine reviews, audits and investigations by the Medicare and Medicaid programs and other Federal and state governmental agencies, which have various rights and remedies against us if they assert that we have overcharged the programs or failed to comply with program requirements. Violation of the laws governing our operations, or changes in interpretations of those laws, could result in the imposition of fines, civil or criminal penalties, and the termination of our rights to participate in Federal and state-sponsored programs and/or the suspension or revocation of our licenses. If we become subject to material fines or, if other sanctions or other corrective actions are imposed on us, our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. If an agency fails to comply with the conditions of participation in the Medicare program, that agency could be terminated from the Medicare program. Each of our agencies must comply with required conditions of participation in the Medicare program. If we fail to meet the conditions of participation at an agency, we may receive a notice of deficiency from the applicable state surveyor. If that agency then fails to institute an acceptable plan of correction to remediate the deficiency within the correction period provided by the state surveyor, that agency could be terminated from the Medicare program. Any termination of one or more of our agencies from the Medicare program for failure to satisfy the program’s conditions of participation could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. CMS has announced that it is currently revising the Medicare conditions of participation for home health agencies across the industry, with an unknown publication date. We do not know at this time what effect the revisions will have on our operations, and there can be no assurances that the revisions will not have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our industry is highly competitive, with few barriers to entry. There are few barriers to entry in home health markets which do not require certificates of need (“CON”) or permits of approval (“POA”). Our primary competition comes from local privately-owned and hospital-owned health care providers. We compete based on the availability of personnel; the quality, expertise and value of our services; and in certain instances, on the price of our services. Increased competition in the future may limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share. Further, the introduction of new and enhanced service offerings by others, in combination with industry consolidation and the development of strategic relationships by our competitors, could cause a decline in revenue or loss of market acceptance of our services or make our services less attractive. Additionally, we compete with a number of non-profit organizations that can finance acquisitions and capital expenditures on a tax-exempt basis or receive charitable contributions that are unavailable to us. Managed care organizations and other third-party payors continue to consolidate to enhance their ability to influence the delivery of health care services. Consequently, the health care needs of patients in the United States are increasingly served by a smaller number of managed care organizations. These organizations generally enter into service agreements with a limited number of providers. Our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected if these organizations terminate us as a provider and/or engage our competitors as a preferred or exclusive provider. In addition, should private payors, including managed care payors, seek to negotiate additional discounted fee structures or the assumption by health care providers of all or a portion of the financial risk through prepaid capitation arrangements, our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to react competitively to new developments, our operating results may suffer. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors, which competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Possible changes in the case mix of patients, as well as payor mix and payment methodologies, could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our revenue is determined by a number of factors, including our mix of patients and the rates of payment among payors. Changes in the case mix of our patients, payment methodologies or the payor mix among Medicare, Medicaid and private payors could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our estimated revenue adjustments may not be adequate to adjust our Medicare net service revenue and associated patient accounts receivable to their net realizable amounts. As part of our Medicare revenue recognition process, we estimate the impact of payment adjustments based on our historical experience, which primarily includes a historical collection rate of over 99% on Medicare claims, and record this estimate during the period in which services are rendered as an estimated revenue adjustment and a corresponding reduction to patient accounts receivable. Our estimated revenue adjustments may underestimate actual amounts ultimately collected for various reasons, including: • inconsistent collection rate compared to our historical collection rates; • an inability to obtain appropriate billing documentation or authorizations; or • unanticipated changes in payment from Medicare. If our estimated revenue adjustments are insufficient to net our service revenue and patient accounts receivable to the realizable amounts, our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Our allowance for doubtful accounts may not be sufficient to cover uncollectible amounts. We estimate the amount of Medicaid and private insurance receivables that we will not be able to collect, on an ongoing basis. Our estimated allowance for doubtful accounts may underestimate actual amounts ultimately collected for various reasons, including: • adverse changes in our estimates as a result of changes in payor mix and related collection rates; • inability to collect funds due to missed filing deadlines or inability to prove that timely filings were made; • adverse changes in the economy generally exceeding our expectations; or • unanticipated changes in payment from Medicaid and private insurance companies. If our allowance for doubtful accounts is insufficient to cover losses on our receivables, our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. A write off of a significant amount of intangible assets or long-lived assets could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Because we have grown in part through acquisitions, goodwill and other acquired intangible assets represent a substantial portion of our assets. Goodwill was approximately $733.9 million as of December 31, 2008. If we make additional acquisitions, it is likely that we will record additional intangible assets to our consolidated financial statements. We also have long-lived assets consisting of property and equipment and other identifiable intangible assets of $121.6 million as of December 31, 2008, which we review both on a periodic basis as well as when events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If a determination that a significant impairment in value of our unamortized intangible assets or long-lived assets 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements occurs, such determination could require us to write off a substantial portion of our assets. A write off of these assets could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we are unable to maintain relationships with existing patient referral sources or to establish new referral sources, our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Our success depends on referrals from physicians, hospitals and other sources in the communities we serve and on our ability to maintain good relationships with existing referral sources. Our referral sources are not contractually obligated to refer patients to us and may refer their patients to other providers. Our growth and profitability depends, in part, on our ability to establish and maintain close working relationships with these patient referral sources and to increase awareness and acceptance of the benefits of home health and hospice care by our referral sources and their patients. Our loss of, or failure to maintain, existing relationships or our failure to develop new referral relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A shortage of qualified registered nursing staff and other caregivers, such as therapists, could materially impact our ability to attract, train and retain qualified personnel and could increase operating costs. We compete for qualified personnel with other providers of home health and hospice services. Our ability to attract and retain caregivers depends on several factors, including our ability to provide these caregivers with attractive assignments and competitive benefits and salaries. We cannot assure you we will succeed in any of these areas. In addition, there are shortages of qualified health care personnel in some of our markets. As a result, we may face higher costs of attracting caregivers and providing them with attractive benefit packages than we originally anticipated, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, if we expand our operations into geographic areas where health care providers historically have unionized, negotiating a collective bargaining agreement may have a negative impact on our ability to timely and successfully recruit qualified personnel. Generally, if we are unable to attract and retain caregivers, the quality of our services may decline and we could lose patients and referral sources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to Federal and state laws that govern our financial relationships with physicians and other health care providers, including potential or current referral sources; certain agencies acquired by us from Home Health Corporation of America (“HHCA”) are operating under a Corporate Integrity Agreement (“CIA”). We are required to comply with Federal and state laws, generally referred to as “anti-kickback laws,” that prohibit certain direct and indirect payments or other financial arrangements between health care providers that are designed to encourage the referral of patients to a particular provider for medical services. In addition to these anti-kickback laws, the Federal government has enacted specific legislation, commonly known as the “Stark Law,” that prohibits certain financial relationships, specifically including ownership interests and compensation arrangements, between physicians (and the immediate family members of physicians) and providers of designated health services, such as home health agencies, to whom the physicians refer patients. Some of these same financial relationships are also subject to additional regulation by states. Under both anti-kickback laws and the Stark Law, there are a number of safe harbors and exceptions that permit certain carefully constructed relationships. To the extent feasible, we avail ourselves of these safe harbors. With respect to the Stark Law, compliance with an applicable exception is mandatory and we have contractual relationships with potential referral sources, including physicians. For example, we currently have contractual relationships with certain physicians who provide consulting services to our company. Many of these physicians are current or potential referral sources. In addition, in some of our local markets, we lease office space from physicians who may also 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements be referral sources. We cannot assure you that courts or regulatory agencies will not interpret state and Federal anti-kickback laws and/or the Stark Law and similar state laws regulating relationships between health care providers and physicians in ways that will implicate our practices. Violations of these laws could lead to fines or sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of HHCA on October 1, 2008, which was subject to a five-year CIA with the Office of Inspector General for the United States Department of Health and Human Services (“OIG”) as of the date of the transaction. HHCA entered into the CIA in 2005 as a result of the settlement of claims arising out of an alleged kickback scheme dating from February 1997 through May 1998. Although the ownership of the HHCA agencies has changed, the provisions of the CIA remain binding on us as HHCA’s successor and remain in effect until May 17, 2010, or until such time thereafter as the OIG reviews the final annual report submitted. Based on our review of the CIA and discussions with both outside counsel and representatives of the OIG, we believe these contractual obligations and the associated risks are applicable solely to the six home health agencies acquired from HHCA in Pennsylvania, Maryland and Delaware. The CIA requires that we maintain HHCA’s existing compliance program and provides for additional training requirements for certain staff involved in business development functions, the implementation of certain tracking and reporting processes related to financial relationships with referral sources, an annual, independent review of financial relationships with referral sources, and regular reporting to the OIG. The CIA also provides for stipulated penalties in the event of non-compliance by us, including the possibility of exclusion from the Medicare program. Although we believe that we are currently in compliance with the CIA, any violations of that agreement could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The economic downturn, or any deepening of the economic downturn, and continued deficit spending by the Federal government and state budget pressures may result in a reduction in payments and covered services. Adverse developments in the United States and global economies and continued deficit spending due to adverse developments in the United States and global economies, bailout programs directed at specific industries or other governmental measures, could lead to a reduction in Federal government expenditures, including governmentally funded programs in which we participate, such as Medicare and Medicaid. Reductions in expenditures for these programs could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Historically, state budget pressures have translated into reductions in state spending. Given that Medicaid outlays are a significant component of state budgets, we can expect continuing cost containment pressures on Medicaid outlays for our services. In addition, continued unfavorable economic conditions may affect the number of patients enrolled in managed care programs and the profitability of managed care companies, which could result in reduced payment rates and could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Future cost containment initiatives undertaken by private third-party payors may limit our future revenue and profitability. Our non-Medicare revenue and profitability are affected by continuing efforts of third-party payors to maintain or reduce costs of health care by lowering payment rates, narrowing the scope of covered services, increasing case management review of services and negotiating pricing. There can be no assurance that third-party payors will make timely payments for our services and there is no assurance that we will continue to maintain our current payor or revenue mix. Any changes in payment levels from third-party payors could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our hospice operations are subject to two annual Medicare caps calculated by Medicare. If such caps were to be exceeded by any of our hospice providers, our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. With respect to our hospice operations, overall payments made by Medicare to each provider number are subject to an inpatient cap amount and an overall payment cap, which are calculated and published by the Medicare fiscal intermediary on an annual basis covering the period from November 1 through October 31. If payments received by any one of our hospice provider numbers exceeds either of these caps, we may be required to reimburse Medicare for payments received in excess of the caps, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Start-up agencies can be delayed from opening in a timely manner due to processing of regulatory approvals. There can be delays associated with opening a start-up agency. These delays are the result of processing delays with the state regulatory bodies as well as processing delays by the associated fiscal intermediaries that serve as billing liaisons between the agency and CMS. In order to initiate operations at a start-up agency we must submit the necessary applications along with the required documentation to the appropriate state and Federal regulatory bodies. However, CMS has issued a memorandum which prioritizes the initial surveys for new Medicare providers as lowest priority for the state regulatory bodies. Moreover, depending on state requirements the fiscal intermediary may need to receive the state license before the approval process can move forward. Once the necessary application and documentation has been submitted to the state and Federal regulatory bodies there is a testing period of transmitting data from the applicant to CMS. Once complete, the agency receives a provider agreement and corresponding number and can begin billing. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval for our start-up agencies in a timely manner such delays could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets and adverse changes in the United States and global economies could impact our ability to access both available and affordable financing, and without such financing, we may be unable to achieve our objectives for strategic acquisitions and internal growth. The United States and global capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption at unprecedented levels. Significant declines in the United States housing market during the prior year, including falling home prices, the increasing number of foreclosures and higher unemployment rates, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced, and in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions or have increased their rates significantly compared to the prior year. While we intend to finance strategic acquisitions and internal growth with cash flows from operations and borrowings under our revolving credit facility, we may require sources of capital in addition to those presently available to us. Due to the existing uncertainty in the capital and credit markets, our access to capital may not be available on terms acceptable to us (i.e. at attractive/affordable rates) or at all, and this may result in our inability to achieve present objectives for strategic acquisitions and internal growth. Further, in the event we need additional funds, and we are unable to raise the necessary funds on acceptable terms, our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Our indebtedness could impact our financial condition and impair our ability to fulfill other obligations. As of December 31, 2008, we had total outstanding indebtedness of approximately $328.6 million, comprised mainly of indebtedness incurred in connection with the TLC acquisition. This is compared to outstanding indebtedness at December 31, 2007 of approximately $24.0 million. Our level of indebtedness could 27 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows and impair our ability to fulfill other obligations in several ways, including: • it could require us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, which could reduce the availability of cash flow to fund acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • it could limit our ability to borrow money or sell stock for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements and other purposes; • it could limit our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in our industry or business; • it could make us more vulnerable to unfavorable economic or business conditions; and • it could limit our ability to make acquisitions or exploit other business opportunities. In the event we incur additional indebtedness, the risks described above could increase. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain various covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business and our failure to satisfy requirements in these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The agreements governing our indebtedness (the “Debt Agreements”) contain restrictive covenants that require us to comply with or maintain certain financial tests and ratios and restrict our ability to: • incur additional debt; • redeem or repurchase stock, pay dividends or make other distributions; • make certain investments; • create liens; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • make acquisitions; • merge or consolidate; • invest in foreign subsidiaries; • amend acquisition documents; • enter into certain swap agreements; • make certain restricted payments; • transfer, sell or leaseback assets; and • make fundamental changes in our corporate existence and principal business. In addition, events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with and maintain the financial covenants and ratios. Any failure by us to comply with or maintain all applicable financial covenants and ratios and to comply with all other applicable covenants could result in an event of default with respect to the Debt Agreements. If we are unable to obtain a waiver from our lenders in the event of any non-compliance, our lenders could accelerate the maturity of any outstanding indebtedness and terminate the commitments to make further extensions of credit (including our ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility). Any failure to comply with these covenants could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 28 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our operations could be impacted by natural disasters or terrorist acts. The occurrence of natural disasters in the markets in which we operate could not only impact the day-to-day operations of our agencies, but could also disrupt our relationships with patients, employees and referral sources located in the affected areas and, in the case of our corporate office, our ability to provide administrative support services, including billing and collection services. In addition, any episode of care that is not completed due to the impact of a natural disaster will generally result in lower revenue for the episode. For example, our corporate office and a number of our agencies are located in the southeastern United States and the Gulf Coast Region, increasing our exposure to hurricanes. Future hurricanes or other natural disasters may have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the occurrence of terrorist acts and the erosion to our business caused by such an occurrence, could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In the affected areas, our agencies and corporate office could be forced to close for limited or extended periods of time. Our business depends on our information systems. Our inability to effectively integrate, manage and keep our information systems secure and operational could disrupt our operations. Our business depends on effective, secure and operational information systems to assist us in, among other things, monitoring utilization and other cost factors, processing claims, reporting financial results, measuring outcomes and quality of care, managing regulatory compliance controls and maintaining operational efficiencies. These systems include software that is developed in-house and systems provided by external contractors and other service providers. To the extent these external contractors or other service providers become insolvent or fail to support the software or systems we have licensed from them, our operations could be materially adversely affected. Our agencies also depend upon our information systems for accounting, billing, collections, risk management, quality assurance, payroll and other information. If we experience a reduction in the performance, reliability, or availability of our information systems, our operations and ability to produce timely and accurate reports could be materially adversely affected. Our information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading and enhancement to meet our operational needs. Our acquisition activity requires transitions and integration of various information systems. We regularly upgrade and expand our information systems’ capabilities. If we experience difficulties with the transition and integration of information systems or are unable to implement, maintain, or expand our systems properly, we could suffer from, among other things, operational disruptions, regulatory problems and increases in administrative expenses. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches, including unauthorized access to patient data stored in our information systems, and the introduction of computer viruses to our systems. Our security measures may be inadequate to prevent security breaches and our business operations could be materially adversely affected by cancellation of contracts and loss of patients if security breaches are not prevented. We have installed privacy protection systems and devices on our network and Point of Care (“POC”) laptops in an attempt to prevent unauthorized access to information in our database. However, our technology may fail to adequately secure the confidential health information we maintain in our databases. In such circumstances, we may be held liable to our patients and regulators, which could result in litigation or adverse publicity that could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Even if we are not held liable, any resulting negative publicity could harm our business and distract the attention of management. Further, our information systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins and similar events. A failure to restore our information systems after the 29 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Because of the confidential health information we store and transmit, loss of electronically stored information for any reason could expose us to a risk of regulatory action, litigation, possible liability and loss. We believe we have all of the necessary licenses from third parties to use technology and software that we do not own. A third party could, however, allege that we are infringing on rights and we may not be able to obtain licenses on commercially reasonable terms from the third party, if at all, or the third party may commence litigation against us. In addition, we may find it necessary to initiate litigation to protect our trade secrets, to enforce our intellectual property rights and to determine the scope and validity of any proprietary rights of others. Any such litigation, or the failure to obtain any necessary licenses or other rights, could materially and adversely affect our business. Failure of, or problems with, our clinical software system could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have developed and use a proprietary Windows-based clinical software system with our POC system to collect assessment data, schedule and log patient visits, generate medical orders and monitor treatments and outcomes in accordance with established medical standards. The system integrates billing and collections functionality; accounting; human resources; payroll; and employee benefits programs provided by third parties. Problems with, or the failure of, our technology and systems or any system upgrades or programming changes associated with such technology and systems that have problems or fail to function properly could have a material adverse effect on data capture, billing, collections, assessment of internal controls and management and reporting capabilities. Any such problems or failures and the costs incurred in correcting any such problems or failures, could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Delays in payment may cause liquidity problems. Our business is characterized by delays in payment from the time we provide services to the time we receive payment for these services. If we have difficulty in obtaining documentation, such as physician orders, experience information system problems or experience other issues that arise with Medicare or other payors, we may encounter additional delays in our payment cycle. For example, we currently have $7.8 million in Medicare claims that we submitted between November 3, 2008 and December 2, 2008 that are being held in a “pending” status as of December 31, 2008. We have been notified by our fiscal intermediary that these claims received a duplicate document control number by CMS which created a processing error on their end. Per our latest communication with our fiscal intermediaries, the issue is national in scope and the fiscal intermediaries, the Fiscal Intermediary Shared System (FISS) maintainer, and the data centers are working together to correct this issue. These delays caused an increase in our days revenue outstanding of 2 days at December 31, 2008, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows if the error goes unresolved for an extended period of time. In addition, timing delays may cause working capital shortages. Working capital management, including prompt and diligent billing and collection, is an important factor in achieving our financial results and maintaining liquidity. It is possible that documentation support, system problems, Medicare or other provider issues or industry trends may extend our collection period, which may materially adversely affect our working capital, and our working capital management procedures may not successfully mitigate this risk. Additionally, our hospice operations may experience payment delays. We have experienced payment delays when attempting to collect funds from state Medicaid programs in certain instances. Delays in receiving payments from these programs may also materially adversely affect our working capital. 30 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements State efforts to regulate the establishment or expansion of health care providers could impair our ability to expand our operations. Some states require health care providers (including skilled nursing facilities, hospice agencies, home health agencies and assisted living facilities) to obtain prior approval, known as a CON or POA. See Item 1, “Our Regulatory Environment” for additional information on CONs and POAs. If we are not able to obtain such approvals, our ability to expand our operations could be impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our insurance liability coverage may not be sufficient for our business needs. As a result of operating in the home health industry, our business entails an inherent risk of claims, losses and potential lawsuits alleging incidents involving our employees that are likely to occur in a patient’s home. We maintain professional liability insurance to provide coverage to us and our subsidiaries against these risks. However, we cannot assure you claims will not be made in the future in excess of the limits of our insurance, nor can we assure you that any such claims, if successful and in excess of such limits, will not have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our insurance coverage also includes fire, property damage and general liability with varying limits. We cannot assure you that the insurance we maintain will satisfy claims made against us or that insurance coverage will continue to be available to us at commercially reasonable rates, in adequate amounts or on satisfactory terms. Any claims made against us, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, could damage our reputation and business. We may be subject to substantial malpractice or other similar claims. The services we offer involve an inherent risk of professional liability and related substantial damage awards. In addition, we employ direct care workers on a contractual basis to support our existing workforce. Due to the nature of our business, we, through our employees and caregivers who provide services on our behalf, may be the subject of medical malpractice claims. These individuals could be considered our agents, and, as a result, we could be held liable for their medical negligence. We cannot predict the effect that any claims of this nature, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have on our business or reputation or on our ability to attract and retain patients and employees. While we maintain malpractice liability coverage that we believe is appropriate given the nature and breadth of our operations, any claims against us in excess of insurance limits could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We depend on the services of our executive officers and other key employees. Our success depends upon the continued employment of members of our senior management team, including our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, William F. Borne, our President and Chief Operating Officer, Larry R. Graham, our Chief Financial Officer, Dale E. Redman, our Chief Information Officer and Senior Vice President of Clinical Operations, Alice A. Schwartz, and our Chief Compliance Officer, Jeffrey D. Jeter. The loss or departure of any one of these executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may be volatile. The price at which our common stock trades may be volatile. The stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that impact the market prices of securities, particularly those of health care companies. The market price of our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including: • our operating and financial performance; • variances in our quarterly financial results compared to research analyst expectations; 31 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; • future sales of common stock or the perception that sales could occur; • investor and analyst perception of our business and our prospects; • developments relating to litigation or governmental investigations; • changes or proposed changes in health care laws or regulations or enforcement of these laws and regulations, or announcements relating to these matters; • departure of key personnel; • changes in the Medicare, Medicaid and private insurance payment rates for home health and hospice; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; or • general economic and stock market conditions. In addition, the stock market in general, and the NASDAQ Global Select Market in particular, has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of health care provider companies. These broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, securities class-action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their respective securities. The activities of short sellers could reduce the price or prevent increases in the price of our common stock. “Short sale” is defined as the sale of stock by an investor that the investor does not own. Typically, investors who sell short believe the price of the stock will fall, and anticipate selling at a price higher than the price at which they will buy the stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock or preferred stock, or the availability of those shares for future sale, could materially impact our stock price and limit our ability to raise capital. The following table presents information about our outstanding common and preferred stock and our outstanding securities exercisable for or convertible into shares of common stock: As of December 31,2008 Common stock outstanding 27,083,231 Preferred stock outstanding — Common stock available under 2008 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan 1,740,310 Stock options outstanding and exercisable 658,346 Non-vested stock outstanding 229,693 Non-vested stock units outstanding 80,749 In addition, we have a shelf registration statement (declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on August 31, 2007) with availability for the issuance of up to $250.0 million of any combination of preferred and common stock. In the event that we issue equity securities under this shelf registration statement, or a separate registration statement, to raise additional capital for future acquisitions, or otherwise, these equity issuances may dilute our existing stockholders. If we were to sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market or if there was a public perception that substantial sales could occur, the market price of our common stock could decline as a result of such sales. These sales or the perception of substantial future sales may also make it difficult for us to sell common stock in the future to raise capital. 32 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our board of directors may use anti-takeover provisions or issue stock to discourage a change of control. Our certificate of incorporation currently authorizes us to issue up to 60,000,000 shares of common stock and 5,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock. Our board of directors may cause us to issue additional stock to discourage an attempt to obtain control of our company. For example, shares of stock could be sold to purchasers who might support our board of directors in a control contest or to dilute the voting or other rights of a person seeking to obtain control. In addition, our board of directors could cause us to issue preferred stock entitling holders to: • vote separately on any proposed transaction; • convert preferred stock into common stock; • demand redemption at a specified price in connection with a change in control; or • exercise other rights designed to impede a takeover. The issuance of additional shares may, among other things, dilute the earnings and equity per share of our common stock and the voting rights of common stockholders. We have implemented other anti-takeover provisions or provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect, including: (1) advance notice requirements for director nominations and stockholder proposals and (2) a stockholder rights plan, also known as a “poison pill.” These provisions, and others that our board of directors may adopt hereafter, may discourage offers to acquire us and may permit our board of directors to choose not to entertain offers to purchase us, even if such offers include a substantial premium to the market price of our stock. Therefore, our stockholders may be deprived of opportunities to profit from a sale of control. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 