Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a degree of risk. You should consider carefully the following risks, as well as other information in this filing and the incorporated documents before investing in our common stock. Risks Related to Our Industry Our profitability depends principally on the level of government-mandated payment rates. Reductions in rates or rate increases that do not cover cost increases may adversely affect our business. We generally receive fixed payments from Medicare for our services based on the level of care that we provide patients. Consequently, our profitability largely depends upon our ability to manage the cost of providing 9 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements services. Although current Medicare legislation provides for an annual adjustment of the various payment rates based on the increase or decrease of the medical care expenditure category of the Consumer Price Index, these Medicare payment rate increases may be less than actual inflation or could be eliminated or reduced in any given year. For example, in February 2006, the President of the United States signed into law a bill freezing home health payment rates for 2006. The freeze will be effective for one year. Consequently, if our cost of providing services, which consists primarily of labor costs, is greater than the current Medicare payment rate, our profitability would be negatively impacted. Specifically regarding our hospice operations, overall payments made by Medicare to us for hospice services are subject to two payment limitations (hospice caps) calculated by the Medicare fiscal intermediary at the end of the hospice cap period, which runs from November 1st of each year though October 31st of the following year. Under the first limitation, total Medicare payments to us per provider number are compared to a cap amount that is calculated by multiplying the number of Medicare beneficiaries under that provider number electing hospice care for the first time during the cap period by a statutory amount that is indexed for inflation. The cap amount for the twelve-month period ending October 31, 2005 was $19,777.51. We must return any payments in excess of the cap amount to Medicare. Our total payment per provider number may be further reduced if any our Medicare beneficiaries electing hospice care for the first time are subsequently admitted to another hospice service provider. The second limitation, which is also calculated on a per provider number basis, provides that reimbursement for any in-patient days that exceed 20% of the total in-service days for the particular provider number shall be reimbursed at a lower rate. Our ability to avoid these limitations depends on a number of factors, each determined on a provider-number basis, including the average length of stay and mix in level of care. Our revenue and profitability associated with our hospice operations may be materially reduced if we are unable to avoid triggering these and other Medicare payment limitations. As we expand our hospice operations, we cannot assure that we will not exceed the cap amounts in the future. Thus, we cannot assure you that these limitations will not negatively affect our profitability on a company-wide basis in the future. Further, for our hospice patients receiving nursing home care under certain state Medicaid programs who elect hospice care under Medicare or Medicaid, the state must pay us, in addition to the applicable Medicare or Medicaid hospice per diem rate, an amount equal to at least 95% of the Medicaid per diem nursing home rate for “room and board” furnished to the patient by the nursing home. We contract with various nursing homes for the nursing homes’ provision of certain “room and board” services that the nursing homes would otherwise provide Medicaid nursing home patients. We bill and collect from the applicable state Medicaid program an amount equal to at least 95% of the amount that would otherwise have been paid directly to the nursing home under the state’s Medicaid plan. Under our standard nursing home contracts, we pay the nursing home for these “room and board” services at 100% of the Medicaid per diem nursing home rate. Over 70% of our hospice patients reside in nursing homes. Consequently, the reduction or elimination of Medicare payments for hospice patients residing in nursing homes or any change in our ability to provide service to such patients would significantly reduce the net patient service revenue and profitability related to our hospice operations. If any of our agencies fail to comply with the conditions of participation in the Medicare program, that agency could be terminated from the Medicare program, which would adversely affect our net patient service revenue and profitability. Each of our home care and hospice agencies must comply with the extensive conditions of participation in the Medicare program. If any of our agencies fail to meet any of the Medicare conditions of participation, that agency may receive a notice of deficiency from the applicable state surveyor. If that agency then fails to institute a plan of correction to correct the deficiency within the correction period provided by the state surveyor, that agency could be terminated from the Medicare program. Any termination of one or more of our home care agencies from the Medicare program for failure to satisfy the program’s conditions of participation could adversely affect our net service revenue and profitability. CMS has recently announced that it is currently revising the Medicare conditions of participation for home health, with publication expected no earlier than Spring 2006. We do not know at this time what effect the revisions will have on our operations, and there can be no assurances that the revisions will not negatively affect our profitability. 10 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We are subject to extensive government regulation. Any changes to the laws and regulations governing our business, or the interpretation and enforcement of those laws or regulations, could cause us to modify our operations and could negatively impact our operating results. The federal government and the states in which we operate regulate our industry extensively. The laws and regulations governing our operations, along with the terms of participation in various government programs, regulate how we do business, the services we offer, and our interactions with patients and the public. These laws and regulations, and their interpretations, are subject to frequent change. Changes in existing laws and regulations, or their interpretations, or the enactment of new laws or regulations could reduce our profitability by: • increasing our liability; • increasing our administrative and other costs; • increasing or decreasing mandated services; • forcing us to restructure our relationships with referral sources and providers; or • requiring us to implement additional or different programs and systems. For example, Congress enacted the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”), which mandates that provider organizations enhance privacy protections for patient health information. This requires companies like us to develop, maintain and monitor administrative, information, and security systems to prevent inappropriate release of protected health information. Compliance with this law has added, and will continue to add, costs that affect our profitability. Failure to comply with HIPAA could result in fines and penalties, as well as our exclusion from Medicare and Medicaid programs. In addition, we are subject to various routine and non-routine governmental reviews, audits, and investigations. Violation of the laws governing our operations, or changes in interpretations of those laws, could result in the imposition of fines, civil or criminal penalties, the termination of our rights to participate in federal and state-sponsored programs, and the suspension or revocation of our licenses. If we become subject to material fines or if other sanctions or other corrective actions are imposed on us, we might suffer a substantial reduction in profitability. If we are unable to maintain relationships with existing patient referral sources or to establish new referral sources, our growth and profitability could be adversely affected. Our success depends significantly on referrals from physicians, hospitals, and other patient referral sources in the communities that our home care agencies serve, as well as on our ability to maintain good relationships with these referral sources. Our referral sources are not contractually obligated to refer home care or hospice patients to us and may refer their patients to other providers. Our growth and profitability depend on our ability to establish and maintain close working relationships with these patient referral sources and to increase awareness and acceptance of the benefits of home care and hospice care by our referral sources and their patients. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our existing referral source relationships or that we will be able to develop and maintain new relationships in existing or new markets. Our loss of, or failure to maintain, existing relationships or our failure to develop new relationships could adversely affect our ability to expand our operations and operate profitably. We are subject to federal and state laws that govern our financial relationships with physicians and other healthcare providers, including potential or current referral sources. We are required to comply with federal and state laws, generally referred to as “anti-kickback laws,” that prohibit certain direct and indirect payments or fee-splitting arrangements between healthcare providers that are designed to encourage the referral of patients to a particular provider for medical services. In addition to enacting anti-kickback laws, some of the states in which we operate have enacted laws prohibiting certain business 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements relationships between physicians and other providers of healthcare services. We currently have contractual relationships with certain physicians who provide consulting services to our company. Many of these physicians are current or potential referral sources. Although we believe our physician consultant arrangements currently comply with state and federal anti-kickback laws and state laws regulating relationships between healthcare providers, we cannot assure you that courts or regulatory agencies will not interpret these laws in ways that will implicate our physician consultant arrangements. Violations of anti-kickback and similar laws could lead to fines or sanctions that may have a material adverse effect on our operations. We may be subject to substantial malpractice or other similar claims. The services we offer involve an inherent risk of professional liability and related substantial damage awards. On any given day, we have several hundred nurses and other direct care personnel driving to and from patients’ homes where they deliver medical and other care. Due to the nature of our business, we and the caregivers who provide services on our behalf may be the subject of medical malpractice claims. These caregivers could be considered our agents, and, as a result, we could be held liable for their medical negligence. We cannot predict the effect that any claims of this nature, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have on our business or reputation or on our ability to attract and retain patients and employees. We maintain malpractice liability insurance and are responsible for amounts in excess of the limits of our coverage. Delays in reimbursement may cause liquidity problems. Our business is characterized by delays in reimbursement from the time we provide services to the time we receive reimbursement or payment for these services. If we have information system problems or issues that arise with Medicare, we may encounter delays in our payment cycle. Such a timing delay may cause working capital shortages. Working capital management, including prompt and diligent billing and collection, is an important factor in our results of operations and liquidity. We cannot assure you that system problems, Medicare issues or industry trends will not extend our collection period, adversely impact our working capital, or that our working capital management procedures will successfully negate this risk. Further, our hospice operations bill various state Medicaid programs for “room and board” associated with hospice patients residing in nursing homes. There are often timing delays when attempting to collect funds from Medicaid programs. We cannot assure you that delays in receiving reimbursement or payments from these programs will not adversely impact our working capital. Our industry is highly competitive. Our home health care agencies compete with local and regional home health care companies, hospitals, nursing homes, and other businesses that provide home nursing services, some of which are large established companies that have significantly greater resources than we do. Our primary competition comes from local companies in each of our markets, and these privately-owned or hospital-owned health care providers vary by region and market. We compete based on the availability of personnel; the quality, expertise, and value of our services; and in select instances, on the price of our services. Increased competition in the future from existing competitors or new entrants may limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures will not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Some of our existing and potential new competitors may enjoy greater name recognition and greater financial, technical, and marketing resources than we do. This may permit our competitors to devote greater resources than we can to the development and promotion of services. These competitors may undertake more far-reaching and effective marketing campaigns and may offer more attractive opportunities to existing and potential employees and services to referral sources. We expect our competitors to develop new strategic relationships with providers, referral sources, and payors, which could result in increased competition. The introduction of new and enhanced service offerings, in 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements combination with industry consolidation and the development of strategic relationships by our competitors, could cause a decline in revenue or loss of market acceptance of our services or make our services less attractive. Additionally, we compete with a number of non-profit organizations that can finance acquisitions and capital expenditures on a tax-exempt basis or receive charitable contributions that are unavailable to us. We expect that industry forces will continue to have an impact on our business and that of our competitors. In recent years, the health care industry has undergone significant changes driven by efforts to reduce costs, and we expect these cost containment measures to continue in the future. Frequent regulatory changes in our industry, including reductions in reimbursement rates and changes in services covered, have increased competition among home health care providers. If we are unable to react competitively to new developments, our operating results may suffer. A shortage of qualified registered nursing staff and other caregivers could adversely affect our ability to attract, train and retain qualified personnel and could increase operating costs. We rely significantly on our ability to attract and retain caregivers who possess the skills, experience, and licenses necessary to meet the requirements of our patients. We compete for personnel with other providers of home nursing and hospice services. Our ability to attract and retain caregivers depends on several factors, including our ability to provide these caregivers with attractive assignments and competitive benefits and salaries. We cannot assure you that we will succeed in any of these areas. In addition, there are occasional shortages of qualified healthcare personnel in some of the markets in which we operate. As a result, we may face higher costs of attracting caregivers and providing them with attractive benefit packages than we originally anticipated, and, if that occurs, our profitability could decline. Finally, although this is currently not a significant factor in our existing markets, if we expand our operations into geographic areas where healthcare providers have historically unionized, we cannot assure you that the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements will not have a negative effect on our ability to timely and successfully recruit qualified personnel. Generally, if we are unable to attract and retain caregivers, the quality of our services may decline, and we could lose patients and referral sources. Risks Related to Our Business We depend on Medicare for substantially all of our revenues. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, we received 93%, 93%, and 91%, respectively, of our revenue from Medicare. Reductions in Medicare reimbursement could have an adverse impact on our profitability. Such reductions in payments to us could be caused by: • administrative or legislative changes to the base episode rate; • the elimination or reduction of annual rate increases based on medical inflation; • the imposition by Medicare of co-payments or other mechanisms shifting responsibility for a portion of payment to beneficiaries; • adjustments to the relative components of the wage index; • changes to our case mix or therapy thresholds; or • other adverse changes to the way we are paid for delivering our services. The Medicare Payment Advisory Commission (MedPAC), an independent federal body established to advise Congress on issues affecting the Medicare Program, has recently recommended implementation of pay-for-performance initiatives for home care providers. If implemented, Medicare will differentiate reimbursement rates for Medicare home health service providers based on quality measures. While we believe that we provide high quality services to our patients, there can be no assurances that a pay-for-performance reimbursement system will not adversely affect our Medicare reimbursement rates and, consequently, our results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our non-Medicare revenues and profitability also are affected by the continuing efforts of third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care by lowering reimbursement rates, narrowing the scope of covered services, increasing case management review of services, and negotiating reduced contract pricing. Any changes in reimbursement levels from these third-party payor sources and any changes in applicable government regulations could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. We can provide no assurance that we will continue to maintain the current payor or revenue mix. Migration of our Medicare beneficiary patients to Medicare managed care providers could negatively impact our operating results. Historically, we have generated the majority of our revenue from the Medicare fee-for-service market. Under the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of December 2003 (“MMA”), however, the United States Congress allocated significant additional funds and other incentives to Medicare managed care providers in order to promote greater participation in those plans by Medicare beneficiaries. If these increased funding levels have the intended result, the size of the potential Medicare fee-for-service market could decline, thereby reducing the size of our potential patient population, which could cause our operating results to suffer. We are operating under a Corporate Integrity Agreement. Violations to that agreement could result in penalties or exclusion from participation in the Medicare program. In 1999 we uncovered certain improprieties stemming from the unauthorized conduct of an agency director in our Monroe, Louisiana location, an agency we had acquired previously. We disclosed these improprieties to the Office of the Inspector General (“OIG”). Following an extensive series of audits, we and the OIG reached a settlement in August 2003, whereby we agreed to repay approximately $1.2 million to the government in three annual payments, the last of which we made in August 2005. As part of the settlement, we also executed a three-year Corporate Integrity Agreement (“CIA”), which requires that we: • maintain our current compliance program; • specify additional training requirements; • conduct annual, independent audits of the agency; and • make timely disclosure of, and repay, overpayments resulting from any potential fraud or abuse of which we become aware. There are stipulated penalties for violations of the CIA. Egregious violations of the CIA could result in our exclusion from further participation in government-funded health programs. We have designated a Chief Compliance Officer to ensure ongoing compliance with the terms and conditions of the CIA as well as compliance with all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations. Any acquired businesses are subject to the provisions of the CIA. We believe that we are in compliance with all state and federal fraud and abuse provisions and all other applicable government laws and regulations. Our compliance with these laws and regulations may be subject to future government review and interpretation and possible regulatory actions currently unknown or unasserted. If we are found to be in violation of any of these provisions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. We operate our agencies under licenses issued and regulated by the respective states in which they are located. Each agency is subject to periodic surveys and complaint-based surveys. If a survey identifies violations of state standards, the agency typically is afforded a grace period in which to comply or otherwise lose its license to operate. We use a Clinical Operations Department, staffed by regional personnel, to prepare each agency for these surveys and respond when those surveys identify potential problems or when plans-of-correction are required to bring the agency back into compliance. If we are found to be in violation of any of these state standards, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our growth strategy depends on our ability to manage growing and changing operations. Our business has grown significantly in size and complexity in recent years. Our internal growth rate for Medicare patient admissions was 8% for 2003, 28% for 2004, and 18% for 2005. This growth has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our management systems, internal controls, and financial and professional resources. In addition, we will need to further develop our financial controls and reporting systems to accommodate future growth. This could require us to incur expenses for hiring additional qualified personnel, retaining professionals to assist in developing the appropriate control systems, and expanding our information technology infrastructure. Our inability to manage growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Our growth strategy depends on our ability to develop and to acquire additional agencies on favorable terms and to integrate and operate these agencies effectively. If we are unable to do so, our future growth and operating results could be negatively impacted. Developments. We expect to continue to open agencies in our existing and new markets. Our new agency growth, however, will depend on several factors, including our ability to: • obtain locations for agencies in markets where need exists; • identify and hire a sufficient number of appropriately trained home care and other health care professionals; • obtain adequate financing to fund growth; and • operate successfully under applicable government regulations. Acquisitions. We are focusing significant time and resources on the acquisition of home healthcare providers, or of certain of their assets, in targeted markets. We may be unable to identify, negotiate, and complete suitable acquisition opportunities on reasonable terms. We may incur future liabilities related to acquisitions. Should any of the following problems, or others, occur as a result of our acquisition strategy, the impact could be material: • difficulties integrating personnel from acquired entities and other corporate cultures into our business; • difficulties integrating information systems; • the potential loss of key employees or referral sources of acquired companies or a reduction in patient referrals by hospitals from which we have acquired home health care agencies; • the assumption of liabilities and exposure to undisclosed liabilities of acquired companies; • the acquisition of an agency with undisclosed compliance problems; • the diversion of management attention from existing operations; • difficulties in recouping partial episode payments and other types of misdirected payments for services from the previous owners; or • an unsuccessful claim for indemnification rights from previous owners for acts or omissions arising prior to the date of acquisition. Our acquisitions may impose strains on our existing resources. As a result of our past and current acquisition strategy, we have grown significantly over the last two years. As we continue to add acquisition-related revenue and expand our markets, our growth could strain our resources, including management, information systems, regulatory compliance, logistics, and other controls. We cannot assure you that our resources will keep pace with our anticipated growth. If we do not manage our expected growth effectively, our future results could be adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We may face increasing competition for acquisition candidates. We intend to grow significantly through the continued acquisition of additional home nursing agencies. We face competition for acquisition candidates, which may limit the number of acquisition opportunities available to us and may lead to higher acquisition prices. Recently, we have observed an increase in acquisition prices for mid-sized and larger regional home health care companies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify suitable acquisitions in the future or that any such opportunities, if identified, will be consummated on favorable terms, if at all. In the absence of completing successful acquisitions, our future growth rate could decline. In addition, we cannot assure you that any future acquisitions, if consummated, will result in further growth. We may require additional capital to pursue our acquisition strategy. At December 31, 2005, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $17.2 million. Based on our current plan of operations, including acquisitions, we cannot assure you that this amount will be sufficient to support our current growth strategies. We cannot readily predict the timing, size, and success of our acquisition efforts and the associated capital commitments. If we do not have sufficient cash resources, our growth could be limited unless we obtain additional equity or debt financing. Effective as of July 11, 2005, we entered into a $75 million senior secured credit facility with Wachovia Bank, N.A. The facility includes a $50 million Term Loan and up to $25 million in a three-year Revolver, of which $47.5 million was outstanding as of December 31, 2005. Our business depends on our information systems. Our inability to effectively integrate, manage, and keep secure our information systems could disrupt our operations. Our business depends on effective and secure information systems that assist us in, among other things, monitoring utilization and other cost factors, processing claims, reporting financial results, measuring outcomes and quality of care, managing regulatory compliance controls, and maintaining operational efficiencies. These systems include software developed in-house and systems provided by external contractors and other service providers. To the extent that these external contractors or other service providers become insolvent or fail to support the software or systems, our operations could be negatively affected. Our agencies also depend upon our information systems for accounting, billing, collections, risk management, quality assurance, payroll, and other information. If we experience a reduction in the performance, reliability, or availability of our information systems, our operations and ability to produce timely and accurate reports could be adversely affected. Our information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading, and enhancement to meet our operational needs. Our acquisition activity requires transitions and integration of various information systems. We regularly upgrade and expand our information systems’ capabilities. If we experience difficulties with the transition and integration of information systems or are unable to implement, maintain, or expand our systems properly, we could suffer from, among other things, operational disruptions, regulatory problems, and increases in administrative expenses. Our business requires the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments could result in compromises or breaches of our security systems and patient data stored in our information systems. Anyone who circumvents our security measures could misappropriate our confidential information or cause interruptions in our services or operations. The Internet is a public network, and data is sent over this network from many sources. In the past, computer viruses or software programs that disable or impair computers have been distributed and have rapidly spread over the Internet. Computer viruses could be introduced into our systems, or those of our providers or regulators, which could disrupt our operations or make our systems inaccessible to our providers or regulators. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. Our security measures may be inadequate to prevent security breaches, and our business operations would be negatively impacted by cancellation of contracts and loss of patients if security breaches are not prevented. 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Further, our information systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins and similar events. A failure to restore our information systems after the occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because of the confidential health information we store and transmit, loss of electronically-stored information for any reason could expose us to a risk of regulatory action, litigation, possible liability and loss. Our clinical software system has been developed in-house. Failure of, or problems with, our system could harm our business and operating results. We have developed and utilize a proprietary Windows-based clinical software system to collect assessment data, schedule and log patient visits, generate medical orders, and monitor treatments and outcomes in accordance with established medical standards. The system integrates billing and collections functionality as well as accounting, human resource, payroll, and employee benefits programs provided by third parties. Problems with, or the failure of, our technology and systems could negatively impact data capture, billing, collections, and management and reporting capabilities. Any such problems or failures could adversely affect our operations and reputation, result in significant costs to us, and impair our ability to provide our services in the future. The costs incurred in correcting any errors or problems may be substantial and could adversely affect our profitability. We depend on outside software providers. We depend on the proper functioning and availability of our information systems in operating our business, some of which are provided by outside software providers. These information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading, and enhancement to meet our operational needs. If our providers are unable to maintain or expand our information systems properly, we could suffer from operational disruptions and an increase in administrative expenses, among other things. Our insurance liability coverage may not be sufficient for our business needs. We maintain professional liability insurance for Amedisys and our subsidiaries. However, we cannot assure you that claims will not be made in the future in excess of the limits of such insurance, if any, nor can we assure you that any such claims, if successful and in excess of such limits, will not have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct business or on our assets. Our insurance coverage also includes fire, property damage, and general liability with varying limits. Although we maintain insurance consistent with industry practice, we cannot assure you that the insurance we maintain will satisfy claims made against us. In addition, as a result of operating in the home healthcare industry, our business entails an inherent risk of claims, losses and potential lawsuits alleging employee accidents that are likely to occur in a patient’s home. Finally, we cannot assure you that insurance coverage will continue to be available to us at commercially reasonable rates, in adequate amounts or on satisfactory terms. Any claims made against us, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, could damage our reputation and business. From December 31, 1998 to November 9, 2000, we were insured for risks associated with professional and general liability by an insurance company that currently is in liquidation under federal bankruptcy laws and may not be able to pay or defend claims incurred by us during this period, and our current insurance does not cover any such claims. We do not, however, believe that the ultimate resolution of current claims will be materially different from reserves established for them or that any material claims will be made in the future based on occurrences during that period. We have established reserves for Medicare liabilities that may be payable by us in the future. These liabilities may be subject to audit or further review, and we may owe additional amounts beyond what we expect and have reserved for. As of December 31, 2005, we have estimated an aggregate payable to Medicare of $10.5 million, all of which is reflected as a current liability in our financial statements. The $10.5 million liability has two 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements components: a cost report adjustments reserve ($9.5 million), and a Medicare Prospective Payment System (“PPS”) payment adjustments reserve ($1.0 million). If actual amounts exceed our reserves, we may incur additional costs that may adversely affect our results of operations. We describe these adjustments below. Cost Report Adjustments Reserve. Prior to the implementation of PPS on October 1, 2000, we recorded Medicare revenue at the lower of: (1) actual costs, (2) the per-visit cost limit, or (3) a per-beneficiary cost limit on an individual provider basis. We determined ultimate reimbursement upon review of annual cost reports. The recorded $9.5 million includes a $3.1 million obligation of a wholly owned subsidiary that is currently in bankruptcy, and it is not clear whether we will have any responsibility for that amount if the debt of the subsidiary is discharged in bankruptcy. Also included in the balance is $6.4 million that reflects our estimate of amounts likely to be assessed by Medicare as overpayments in respect of prior years when Medicare audits of our cost reports through October 2000 are completed. At the time when these audits are completed and final assessments are issued, we may apply to Medicare for repayment, if appropriate, over a thirty-six month period, although there is no assurance that such applications will be agreed to, if sought. These amounts relate to the Medicare payment system in effect until October 2000, under which Medicare provided periodic interim payments to us, subject to audit of cost reports submitted by us and repayment of any overpayments by Medicare to us. The fiscal intermediary, acting on behalf of Medicare, has not yet issued finalized audits with respect to 1999 and 2000 and is entitled to reopen settled cost reports for up to three years after issuing final assessments. The remaining balance of $1.0 million is related to notice from CMS that it intended to make certain recoveries of amounts overpaid to providers for the periods dating from the implementation of PPS on October 1, 2000 through particular dates in 2003 and 2004. The first of these amounts related to partial episode payments (“PEPs”) whereby a patient was readmitted to home health care prior to the expiry of 60 days from the previous admission date at another home health agency. In such instances, reimbursement for the first agency is reduced. CMS advised the industry that CMS had implemented changes to its computer system such that these instances would be adjusted at the time of claim submission on an ongoing basis, and that recovery for prior overpayments would commence in the summer of 2003 and extend over a two-year period. Medicare completed its recoveries of PEPs on September 30, 2005. We increased our Medicare revenue in the fourth quarter of 2005 in the amount of $0.4 million for reserves in excess of monies recouped by Medicare. Secondly, CMS advised the industry that it would seek recovery of overpayments that were made for patients who had, within 14 days of such admission, been discharged from inpatient facilities, including hospitals, rehabilitation and skilled nursing units. We continue to evaluate this liability and estimated a reserve in the amount of approximately $1.0 million was appropriate as of December 31, 2005. We depend on the services of our executive officers and other key employees. Our success depends upon the continued employment of certain members of our senior management team, including our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, William F. Borne, our President and Chief Operating Officer, Larry R. Graham, our Chief Financial Officer, Gregory H. Browne, and our Chief Information Officer, Alice A. Schwartz. We also depend upon the continued employment of the Senior Vice Presidents that manage several of our key functional areas, including operations, business development, accounting, finance, human resources, marketing, information systems, contracting and compliance. We maintain key employee life insurance of $4.5 million on Mr. Borne’s life and have entered into employment agreements with each of Mr. Borne, Mr. Graham and Mr. Browne. The departure of any member of our senior management team may materially adversely affect our operations. In this context, Mr. Browne has announced his intention to resign from the Company at some future unspecified date, depending on the Company’s ability to find a suitable replacement. Our operations could be affected by natural disasters. A substantial number of our agencies are located in the Southeastern United States and the Gulf Coast Region, increasing our exposure to hurricanes and other natural disasters. The occurrence of natural disasters in 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements the markets in which we operate could not only affect the day-to-day operations of our agencies, but also could also disrupt our relationships with patients, employees and referral sources located in the affected areas. In addition, any episode of care that is not completed due to the impact of a natural disaster will generally result in lower revenue for the episode. For example, in late August and early September 2005, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita impacted our agencies, employees and patients located in Southern Louisiana and Southern Mississippi. To date, only one of our agencies affected by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, located in Chalmette, Louisiana, has not reopened. Other of our agencies located in the Louisiana Gulf Coast Region, however, have been operating at lower capacities. We cannot assure you that hurricanes or other natural disasters will not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations in the future. We are defending class action lawsuits that may require us to pay substantial damage awards. On August 23 and October 4, 2001, two class action lawsuits were filed, which have since been consolidated, on behalf of all purchasers of our common stock between November 15, 2000 and June 13, 2001, against us and three of our executive officers, in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Louisiana. In May of 2003, the trial court certified the class, and we appealed that decision. On February 17, 2005, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit vacated the trial court’s certification order and remanded the case for further proceedings relative to class certification. The parties have agreed to a stay of all depositions and other discovery (subject to certain limited exceptions) pending a ruling on class certification. The suits seek damages based on the decline in our stock price following an announced restatement of earnings for the fourth quarter of 2000 and first quarter of 2001, alleging that our management knew or were reckless in not knowing the facts giving rise to the restatement. We are vigorously defending these lawsuits. We have directors and officers insurance coverage for an amount in excess of $100,000 up to $4 million, in respect of this period. We are not able to estimate at this time the potential amounts that could be awarded to the plaintiffs in this matter. Although management believes our insurance coverage is sufficient in respect to any amounts that may be awarded, we cannot assure you that the final resolution will fall within our insurance coverage amounts. We have met our deductible with the legal fees that have been incurred to date. Additional legal fees will be paid by the insurer up to our policy limits. There is a risk that we will be held responsible for some or all of the $4.2 million liability of a bankrupt subsidiary. We consolidate the net liabilities of Alliance, a bankrupt subsidiary that is no longer in operation, in our consolidated financial statements. It is possible that we could be held responsible for some or all of this amount, and, depending upon the outcome of the bankruptcy proceedings, potentially a larger amount. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may be volatile and this may adversely affect our stockholders. The price at which our common stock trades may be volatile. The stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of securities, particularly securities of health care companies. The market price of our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including: • our operating and financial performance; • variances in our quarterly financial results compared to research analyst expectations; • the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; • future sales of common stock or the perception that sales could occur; • investor perception of our business and our prospects; 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • developments relating to litigation or governmental investigations; • changes or proposed changes in health care laws or regulations or enforcement of these laws and regulations, or announcements relating to these matters; or • general economic and stock market conditions. In addition, the stock market in general, and the Nasdaq National Market in particular, has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of health care provider companies. These broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, securities class-action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their respective securities. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation of this type is often expensive to defend and may divert our management team’s attention as well as resources from the operation of our business. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the availability of those shares for future sale, could adversely affect our stock price and limit our ability to raise capital. At December 31, 2005, 15,877,524 shares of our common stock were outstanding. There are 120,183 shares of our common stock that may be issued under our 1998 employee stock purchase plan. As of December 31, 2005, 1,048,275 shares of our common stock were issuable upon the exercise of stock options which were outstanding but not exercisable, 723,093 shares of our common stock were issuable upon the exercise of stock options which were outstanding and exercisable, and 38,000 shares of our common stock were issuable upon the exercise of outstanding warrants. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public or the perception that substantial sales could occur. These sales also may make it more difficult for us to sell common stock in the future to raise capital. We do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, and you should not expect to receive dividends on shares of our common stock. We do not pay dividends and intend to retain all future earnings to finance the continued growth and development of our business. In addition, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any future payment of cash dividends will depend upon our financial condition, capital requirements, earnings, and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Under the terms of our credit facility, we are restricted from paying cash dividends and making other cash distributions to our stockholders. Our Board of Directors may use anti-takeover provisions or issue stock to discourage control contests. Our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes us to issue up to 30.0 million shares of common stock and 5.0 million shares of undesignated Preferred Stock. Our Board of Directors may cause us to issue additional stock to discourage an attempt to obtain control of the Company. For example, shares of stock could be sold to purchasers who might support the Board of Directors in a control contest or to dilute the voting or other rights of a person seeking to obtain control. In addition, the Board of Directors could cause us to issue Preferred Stock entitling holders to: • vote separately on any proposed transaction; • convert preferred stock into common stock; • demand redemption at a specified price in connection with a change in control; or • exercise other rights designed to impede a takeover. In addition, the issuance of additional shares may, among other things, dilute the earnings and equity per share of our common stock and the voting rights of common stockholders. 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We have implemented other anti-takeover provisions or provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect, including (1) advance notice requirements for director nominations and stockholder proposals and (2) a stockholder rights plan, also known as a “poison pill.” These provisions, and others that the Board of Directors may adopt hereafter, may discourage offers to acquire us and may permit our Board of Directors to choose not to entertain offers to purchase us, even if such offers include a substantial premium to the market price of our stock. Therefore, our stockholders may be deprived of opportunities to profit from a sale of control. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company received a comment letter from the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on December 5, 2005 related to Amedisys, Inc. Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2004 and Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2005. The Company and the SEC have one unresolved staff comment and the Company is continuing to work with the SEC to provide additional information on this sole remaining issue which has no impact on the Company’s previously reported current assets, net income, total net cash flows, or changes in stockholders’ equity for any period presented. In its 2004 Form 10-K filing, the Company recorded in its 2003 and 2002 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows approximately $6.3 million and $3.4 million, respectively, in repayments to Medicare in Cash Flows from Financing Activities. The SEC has questioned whether these transactions should have been reflected as Cash Flows from Operating Activities. Should the Company be unsuccessful in providing sufficient information to the SEC regarding this unresolved staff comment, the Company may be required to amend its 2005 and 2004 Form 10-K’s to restate its Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for 2003 and 2002. 