Item 1A. Risk Factors Forward-Looking Statements and Certain Risks We encounter substantial risks in our business, any one of which may adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. The fact that some of these risk factors may be the same or similar to those that we have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in past reports, means only that the risks are present in multiple periods. We believe that many of the risks that are described here are part of doing business in the industry in which we operate and will likely be present in all periods. The fact that certain risks are endemic to the industry does not lessen their significance. These risk factors should be read together with the other items in this report, including Item 1, "Business," and Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Among others, risks and uncertainties that may affect our business, financial condition, performance, development, and results of operations include the following: Our Hong Kong market accounts for a significant part of our business. Any decline in sales or customers in this market, without a corresponding increase in sales and customers in our China market through BabyCare, would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Over the past few years, the majority of our sales and Associate growth has occurred in our Hong Kong market, which represented 26.9% of our net sales in 2011. Following our acquisition of BabyCare in China, we announced that we would shift our international attention to growing our business in China. As a result of this strategy, we will likely experience a decline in sales and/or customers in our Hong Kong market. Factors that could contribute to a decline in Hong Kong include, among other things: (i) we have many Associate leaders in Hong Kong who qualify to do business in both Hong Kong and China and who may shift their attention to growing their businesses in China; and (ii) many of our Associates, who act simply as consumers of our products and have historically purchased our products in Hong Kong, may begin to purchase our products in China. Any decline in the performance of our Hong Kong market without a corresponding increase in the performance in China would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must comply with significant legal and regulatory requirements to engage in direct selling in China and must also use a separate compensation plan for our Associates in China, which is structured differently than our compensation plan in other markets. Although we believe that, in light of our successful Asian Associate base, we will be successful in growing our business in China, it is difficult to assess the extent to which our Chinese business model and Associate compensation plan will be accepted or successful in that market. Although we are required to conduct our operations in China through BabyCare, we believe that our success in China will depend on our ability to successfully integrate, to the extent legally possible, our operations with BabyCare's operations. This includes, among other things, registering USANA products, in a timely manner, for sale in China and educating our Associates on our Compensation Plan in China. In light of the factors listed above, and the other risks to our business, there can be no assurance that we will not experience a decline in sales and/or customers in our Hong Kong market or that we will be successful in growing sales and customers in China. Difficult economic conditions may adversely affect our business. Over the past few years, economic conditions in many of the markets where we sell our products have resulted in challenges to our business. This is particularly true in our North America region, where, despite various initiatives, our business has continued to decline. We cannot predict whether world or market specific economies 23 Table of Contents will improve or deteriorate in the future. If difficult economic conditions continue or worsen, we could experience declines in net sales, profitability and cash flow due to lower demand for our products or other factors caused by economic challenges faced by our customers, potential customers or suppliers. Additionally, these conditions may result in a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources or otherwise negatively impact our operations or overall financial condition. As a network marketing company, we are dependent upon an independent sales force and we do not have direct control over the marketing of our products. We rely on non-employee, independent Associates to market and sell our products and to generate our sales. Associates typically market and sell our products on a part-time basis and likely will engage in other business activities, some of which may compete with us. We have a large number of Associates and a relatively small corporate staff to implement our marketing programs and to provide motivational support to our Associates. We rely primarily upon our Associates to attract, train and motivate new Associates. Our sales are directly dependent upon the efforts of our Associates. Our ability to maintain and increase sales in the future will depend in large part upon our success in increasing the number of new Associates, retaining and motivating our existing Associates, and in improving the productivity of our Associates. We can provide no assurances that the number of Associates will increase or remain constant or that their productivity will increase. Our Associates may terminate their services at any time, and, like most direct selling companies, we experience a high turnover among new Associates from year to year. We experienced a 2.6% decline in the number of active Associates during 2011. Prior to 2011, we experienced a 14.6% increase in the number of active Associates during 2010, and a 0.5% increase during 2009. In particular, we have experienced declines in the number of active Associates in the United States and, most recently, Hong Kong. If our initiatives for 2012 do not drive growth in our Associate numbers, particularly in the United States and other markets where our Associate numbers have declined, our operating results could be harmed. We cannot accurately predict any fluctuation in the number and productivity of Associates because we primarily rely upon existing Associates to sponsor and train new Associates and to motivate new and existing Associates. Our operating results in other markets could also be adversely affected if we and our existing Associates do not generate sufficient interest in our business to successfully retain existing Associates and attract new Associates. The loss of a significant USANA Associate or downline sales organization could adversely affect our business. We rely on the successful efforts of our Associates that become leaders within our Compensation Plan. Our Compensation Plan is designed to permit Associates to sponsor new Associates, creating multiple "business centers," or levels in the downline organization. Sponsored Associates are referred to as "downline" Associates within the sponsoring Associate's "downline network." If these downline Associates in turn sponsor new Associates, additional business centers are created, with the new downline Associates becoming part of the original sponsoring Associate's downline network. As a result of this network marketing system, Associates develop business relationships with other Associates. The loss of a key Associate or group of Associates, large turnover or decreases in the size of the key Associate force, seasonal or other decreases in purchase volume, sales volume reduction, the costs associated with training new Associates, and other related expenses may adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Moreover, our ability to continue to attract and retain Associates can be affected by a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: •General business and economic conditions; •Adverse publicity or negative misinformation about us or our products; •Public perceptions about network marketing programs; •High-visibility investigations or legal proceedings against network marketing companies by federal or state authorities or private citizens; 24 Table of Contents •Public perceptions about the value and efficacy of nutritional, personal care, or weight management products generally; •Other competing network marketing organizations entering into the marketplace that may recruit our existing Associates or reduce the potential pool of new Associates; and •Changes to the Compensation Plan required by law or implemented for business reasons that make attracting and retaining Associates more difficult. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to attract and retain Associates in sufficient numbers to sustain future growth or to maintain our present growth levels, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Our Associate Compensation Plan, or changes we make to it, may be viewed negatively by some Associates, could fail to achieve our desired objectives, and could have a negative impact on our business. Our line of business is highly competitive and sensitive to the introduction of new competitors, new products and/or new distributor compensation plans. Network marketing companies commonly attempt to attract new distributors by offering generous distributor compensation plans. We believe our Compensation Plan is among the most competitive and generous in the network marketing industry. From time to time, we modify components of our Compensation Plan in an effort to (i) keep it competitive and attractive to existing and potential Associates, (ii) cause or address a change in Associate behavior, (iii) incent Associates to grow our business, (iv) conform to legal and regulatory requirements, and (v) address other business needs. In light of the size and diversity of our Associate force and the complexity of our Compensation Plan, it is difficult to predict how any changes to the plan will be viewed by Associates and whether such changes will achieve their desired results. For example, certain changes we made to our Compensation Plan in 2008 were very successful in certain markets in our Asia Pacific region, but were unsuccessful in many of our markets and regions. In 2010, we made additional changes to our Compensation Plan in an effort to encourage more entrepreneurial Associates to join the Company and build a sales organization at an accelerated pace. While these changes successfully caused us to enroll more entrepreneurial Associates, they have made it more challenging for us to enroll Associates in general, including those who simply consume our products and are less entrepreneurial. As a result, our Associate counts have decreased in most of our markets, including North America. We cannot assure you that our Associate Compensation Plan will allow us to successfully attract new Associates or retain existing Associates, nor can we assure you that any changes we make to our Compensation Plan will achieve our desired results. The violation of marketing or advertising laws by Associates in connection with the sale of our products or the improper promotion of our Compensation Plan could adversely affect our business. All Associates sign a written contract and agree to adhere to our policies and procedures. Although these policies and procedures prohibit Associates from making false, misleading and other improper claims regarding products or income potential from the distribution of the products, Associates may, from time to time, without our knowledge and in violation of our policies, create promotional materials or otherwise provide information that does not accurately describe our marketing program. They also may make statements regarding potential earnings, product claims, or other matters in violation of our policies or applicable laws and regulations concerning these matters. These violations may result in legal action against us by regulatory agencies, state attorneys general, or private parties. Legal actions against our Associates or others who are associated with us could lead to increased regulatory scrutiny of our business, including our network marketing system. We take what we believe to be commercially reasonable steps to monitor the activities of our Associates to guard against misrepresentation and other illegal or unethical conduct by Associates and to assure that the terms of our policies and procedures and Compensation Plan are observed. There can be no assurance, however, that our efforts in this regard will be sufficient to accomplish this objective. Adverse publicity resulting from such 25 Table of Contents activities could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain Associates and may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Legal action by former Associates or third parties against us could harm our business. We continually monitor and review our Associates' compliance with our policies and procedures as well the laws and regulations applicable to our business. From time to time, some Associates fail to adhere to our policies and procedures. If this happens, we may take disciplinary action against the particular Associate. This disciplinary action is based on the facts and circumstances of the particular case and may include anything from warnings for minor violations to termination of an Associate's purchase and distribution rights for more serious violations. From time to time, we become involved in litigation with an Associate whose purchase and distribution rights have been terminated. We consider this type of litigation to be routine and incidental to our business. While neither the existence nor the outcome of this type of litigation is typically material to our business, in the past we have been involved in litigation of this nature that resulted in a large cash award against the Company. Our competitors have also been involved in this type of litigation, and in some cases class actions, where the result has been a large cash award against the competitor or a large cash settlement by the competitor. These types of challenges, awards or settlements could provide incentives for similar actions by other former Associates against us in the future. Any such challenge involving us or others in our industry could harm our business by resulting in fines or damages against us, creating adverse publicity about us or our industry, or hurting our ability to attract and retain customers. We believe that Associate compliance is critical to the integrity of our business, and, therefore, we will continue to be aggressive in ensuring that our Associates comply with our policies and procedures. As such, we cannot assure you that this type of litigation will not occur again in the future or result in an award or settlement that has a materially adverse effect on our business. Network marketing is subject to intense government scrutiny and regulation, which adds to the expense of doing business and the possibility that changes in the law might adversely affect our ability to sell some of our products in certain markets. Network marketing systems, such as ours, are frequently subject to laws and regulations, both in the U.S. and internationally, that are directed at ensuring that product sales are made to consumers of the products and that compensation, recognition, and advancement within the marketing organization are based on the sale of products rather than on investment in the sponsoring company. Regulatory authorities, in one or more of our present or future markets, could determine that our network marketing system does not comply with these laws and regulations or that it is prohibited. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations or such a prohibition could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Further, we may simply be prohibited from distributing products through a network-marketing channel in some countries, or we may be forced to alter our Compensation Plan. We are also subject to the risk that new laws or regulations might be implemented or that current laws or regulations might change, which could require us to change or modify the way we conduct our business in certain markets. This could be particularly detrimental to us if we had to change or modify the way we conduct business in markets that represent a significant percentage of our net sales. For example, the FTC released a proposed New Business Opportunity Rule in April 2006. As initially drafted, the proposed rule would have required pre-sale disclosures for all business opportunities, which may have included network marketing compensation plans such as ours. However, in March 2008 the FTC issued a revised notice of proposed rulemaking, which indicates that the New Business Opportunity Rule as drafted will not apply to multi-level marketing companies. We may have or incur obligations relating to the activities of our Associates. Our Associates are subject to taxation, and, in some instances, legislation or governmental agencies impose an obligation on us to collect taxes, such as sales taxes or value added taxes, and to maintain appropriate records of such transactions. In addition, we are subject to the risk in some jurisdictions of being responsible for 26 Table of Contents social security and similar taxes with respect to our Associates. In the event that local laws and regulations or the interpretation of local laws and regulations change to require us to treat our independent Associates as employees, or if our Associates are deemed by local regulatory authorities in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate to be our employees rather than independent contractors, under existing laws and interpretations, we may be held responsible for a variety of obligations that are imposed upon employers relating to their employees, including social security and related taxes in those jurisdictions, plus any related assessments and penalties, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. Our business is subject to the effects of adverse publicity and negative public perception. Our ability to attract and retain Associates and to sustain and enhance sales through our Associates can be affected by adverse publicity or negative public perception regarding our industry, our competition, or our business generally. This negative public perception may include publicity regarding the legality of network marketing, the quality or efficacy of nutritional supplement products or ingredients in general or our products or ingredients specifically, and regulatory investigations, regardless of whether those investigations involve us or our Associates or the business practices or products of our competitors or other network marketing companies. In 2007, we were the victim of false statements made to the press and regulatory agencies, causing us to incur significant expense in defending and dispelling the allegations during 2007 and 2008. This adverse publicity also adversely impacted the market price of our stock and caused insecurity among our Associates. There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to adverse publicity or negative public perception in the future or that such adverse publicity will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. The loss of key management personnel could adversely affect our business. Our Founder, Dr. Myron Wentz, is a highly visible spokesman for our products and our business, and our message is based in large part on his vision and reputation, which helps distinguish us from our competitors. Any loss or limitation on Dr. Wentz as a lead spokesman for our mission, business, and products could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, or results of operations. In addition, our executive officers are primarily responsible for our day-to-day operations, and we believe our success depends in part on our ability to retain our executive officers, to compensate our executive officers at attractive levels, and to continue to attract additional qualified individuals to our management team. We cannot guarantee continued service by our key executive officers. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our executive officers, nor do we have an employment agreement with any of our executive officers. The loss or limitation of the services of any of our executive officers or the inability to attract additional qualified management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. The beneficial ownership of a significant percentage of our common stock gives our founder and parties related to or affiliated with him effective control, and limits the influence of other shareholders on important policy and management issues. Gull Holdings, Ltd., an entity that is solely owned and controlled by Dr. Wentz, owned 50.1% of our outstanding common stock at December 31, 2011. By virtue of this stock ownership, Dr. Wentz is able to exert significant influence over the election of the members of our Board of Directors and our business affairs. This concentration of ownership could also have the effect of delaying, deterring, or preventing a change in control that might otherwise be beneficial to shareholders. In addition, Dr. Wentz also currently serves as Chairman of our Board of Directors. There can be no assurance that conflicts of interest will not arise with respect to this directorship or that conflicts will be resolved in a manner favorable to other shareholders of the Company. Sales by our shareholders of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. A large number of outstanding shares of our common stock are held by several of our principal shareholders. If any of these principal shareholders were to decide to sell large amounts of stock over a short period of time such sales could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. 27 Table of Contents Our stock price has been volatile and subject to various market conditions. There can be no assurance that an active market in our stock will be sustained. The trading price of our common stock has been subject to wide fluctuations. The price of our common stock may fluctuate in the future in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in operating results, material announcements by us or our competitors, governmental regulatory action, conditions in the nutritional supplement industry, negative publicity, or other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the stock market has historically experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, which have particularly affected the market prices of many dietary and nutritional supplement companies and which have, in certain cases, not had a strong correlation to the operating performance of these companies. Our operating results in future quarters may be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. If that were to occur, the price of our common stock would likely decline, perhaps substantially. Our products and manufacturing activities are subject to extensive government regulation, which could limit or prevent the sale of our products in some markets. The manufacture, packaging, labeling, advertising, promotion, distribution, and sale of our products are subject to regulation by numerous national and local governmental agencies in the United States and other countries, including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") and the U.S. Federal Trade Commission ("FTC"). For example, failure to comply with FDA regulatory requirements may result in, among other things, injunctions, product withdrawals, recalls, product seizures, fines, and criminal prosecutions. Any action of this type by the FDA could materially adversely affect our ability to successfully market our products. With respect to FTC matters, if the FTC has reason to believe the law is being violated (e.g., failure to possess adequate substantiation for product claims), it can initiate an enforcement action. The FTC has a variety of processes and remedies available to it for enforcement, both administratively and judicially, including compulsory process authority, cease and desist orders, and injunctions. FTC enforcement could result in orders requiring, among other things, limits on advertising, consumer redress, divestiture of assets, rescission of contracts, or such other relief as may be deemed necessary. Violation of these orders could result in substantial financial or other penalties. Any action against us by the FTC could materially and adversely affect our ability to successfully market our products. The manufacture of nutritional or dietary supplements and related products in the United States requires compliance with dietary supplement GMPs, which are based on the food-model GMPs, with additional requirements that are specific to dietary supplements. We believe our manufacturing processes comply with these GMPs for dietary supplements. Nevertheless, any action by the FDA which determined that our processes were non-compliant with dietary supplement GMPs, could materially adversely affect our ability to manufacture and market our products. Additionally, the Dietary Supplement & Nonprescription Drug Consumer Protection Act requires manufacturers of dietary supplement and over-the-counter products to notify the FDA when they receive reports of serious adverse events occurring within the United States. Potential FDA responses to any such report could include injunctions, product withdrawals, recalls, product seizures, fines, or criminal prosecutions. We have an internal adverse event reporting system that has been in place for several years and believe that we are in compliance with this new law. Nevertheless, any action by the FDA in response to a serious adverse event report that may be filed by us could materially and adversely affect our ability to successfully market our products. In markets outside the United States, prior to commencing operations or marketing our products, we may be required to obtain approvals, licenses, or certifications from a country's ministry of health or a comparable agency. For example, our manufacturing facility has been registered with the FDA and Health Canada and is certified by Australia's TGA. Approvals or licensing may be conditioned on reformulation of products or may be unavailable with respect to certain products or product ingredients. We must also comply with product labeling and packaging regulations that vary from 28 Table of Contents country to country. These activities are also subject to regulation by various agencies of the countries in which our products are sold. We cannot predict the nature of any future laws, regulations, interpretations, or applications, nor can we determine what effect additional governmental regulations or administrative orders, when and if promulgated, could have on our business. These potential effects could include, however, requirements for the reformulation of certain products to meet new standards, the recall or discontinuance of certain products, additional record keeping and reporting requirements, expanded documentation of the properties of certain products, expanded or different labeling, or additional scientific substantiation. Any or all of these requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Risks associated with operating in international markets could restrict our ability to expand globally and harm our business and prospects, and we could be adversely affected by our failure to comply with the laws applicable to our foreign activities, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. Our international operations are presently conducted in various foreign countries, and we expect that the number of countries in which we operate could expand over the next few years. Economic conditions, including those resulting from wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism and other conflicts or volatility in the global markets, may adversely affect our customers, their demand for our products and their ability to pay for our products. In addition, there are numerous risks inherent in conducting our business internationally, including, but not limited to, potential instability in international markets, changes in regulatory requirements applicable to international operations, currency fluctuations in foreign countries, political, economic and social conditions in foreign countries and complex U.S. and foreign laws and treaties, including tax laws and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). These risks could restrict our ability to sell products to or to obtain international customers or to operate our international business profitably, and our overall business and results of operations could be negatively impacted by our foreign activities. The FCPA and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions prohibit U.S.-based companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We pursue opportunities in certain parts of the world that experience government corruption, and in certain circumstances, compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Our policies mandate compliance with all applicable anti-bribery laws. Further, we require our partners, subcontractors, agents and others who work for us or on our behalf to comply with the FCPA and other anti-bribery laws. Although we have policies and procedures designed to ensure that we, our employees, our agents and others who work with us in foreign countries comply with the FCPA and other anti-bribery laws, there is no assurance that such policies or procedures will protect us against liability under the FCPA or other laws for actions taken by our agents, employees and intermediaries. If we are found to be liable for FCPA violations (either due to our own acts or our inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), we could incur severe criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, detecting, investigating and resolving actual or alleged FCPA violations is expensive and could consume significant time and attention of our senior management. Our net sales are significantly affected by our success in growing existing markets, as well as opening new markets. As we continue to expand into international markets, our business becomes increasingly subject to political, economic, legal and other risks. Changes in these markets could adversely affect our business. We have a history of expanding into new international markets. We believe that our ability to achieve future growth is dependent in part on our ability to continue our international expansion efforts. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to grow in our existing international markets, enter new international markets on a timely basis, or that new markets will be profitable. We must overcome significant regulatory and legal barriers before we can 29 Table of Contents begin marketing in any international market. Also, before marketing commences in a new country or market, it is difficult to assess the extent to which our products and sales techniques will be accepted or successful in any given country. In addition to significant regulatory barriers, we may also encounter problems conducting operations in new markets with different cultures and legal systems from those encountered elsewhere. We may be required to reformulate certain of our products before commencing sales in a given country. Once we have entered a market, we must adhere to the regulatory and legal requirements of that market. No assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully reformulate our products in any of our current or potential international markets to meet local regulatory requirements or to attract local customers. Our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain and retain necessary permits and approvals in new markets, or that we will have sufficient capital to finance our expansion efforts in a timely manner. In many market areas, other network marketing companies already have significant market penetration, the effect of which could be to desensitize the local Associate population to a new opportunity, such as USANA, or to make it more difficult for us to attract qualified Associates. Even if we are able to commence operations in new markets, there may not be a sufficient population of persons who are interested in our network marketing system. We believe our future success will depend in part on our ability to seamlessly integrate our Compensation Plan across all markets where legally permissible. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to utilize our Compensation Plan seamlessly in all existing or future markets. For example, in August 2010, we indirectly acquired BabyCare, a nutritional supplement company that is licensed by the government of the People's Republic of China (the "PRC" or "China") to engage in direct selling in the Municipality of Beijing. Under Chinese law, single-level compensation models are permitted, but multi-level compensation models, as practiced by USANA and many other direct selling companies, are not. Our operations in China, therefore, utilize a single-level compensation model, which is separate and different from our Compensation Plan in our other markets. We will continue to utilize a separate compensation model in China, and USANA's Compensation Plan will not be integrated into or utilized in China. Our operations in China are subject to significant government scrutiny and may be harmed by the results of such scrutiny. Because of the government's significant concerns about direct selling activities, government regulators in China closely scrutinize activities of direct selling companies or activities that resemble direct selling. The regulatory environment in China with regard to direct selling is evolving, and officials in multiple national and local levels in the Chinese government often exercise broad discretion in deciding how to interpret and apply applicable regulations. In the past, the government has taken significant actions against companies that the government has found have been engaging in direct selling activities in violation of applicable law, including shutting down their businesses and imposing substantial fines. Any determination that our operations or activities, or the activities of our sales employees, contractual sales promoters, direct sellers or Associates are not in compliance with applicable regulations could result in substantial fines, extended interruptions of business, termination of necessary licenses and permits, including our direct selling licenses, or restrictions on our ability to open new stores, obtain approvals for service centers or expand into new locations, all of which could harm our business. Our business will be adversely affected if Chinese regulatory authorities view our direct selling and other corporate activities as non-compliant with applicable Chinese laws and regulations. Our operations in China may be deemed to be subject to numerous Chinese commercial laws, including restrictions on foreign investments. In addition, the Chinese regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over our operations may change applicable laws and regulations or impose additional requirements and conditions with which we may be unable to comply. Our operations in China are licensed to engage in direct selling activity in the Municipality of Beijing. We have not sought confirmation from Chinese 30 Table of Contents regulatory governmental authorities whether our structure and business in China complies with applicable Chinese laws and regulations, including regulation of direct selling business in China. If: •Chinese authorities deem our corporate activities as violating applicable Chinese laws and regulations (including restrictions on foreign investments); •Chinese regulatory authorities change applicable laws and regulations or impose additional requirements and conditions with which we are unable to comply; or •We are found to violate any existing or future Chinese laws or regulations; the relevant Chinese authorities would have broad discretion to deal with such a violation by levying fines, revoking business licenses, requiring us to restructure our China ownership or operations, and require us to discontinue some or all of our business in China. Any of these actions would adversely affect our business. The direct selling license granted to our operations in China is limited in its scope. To engage in direct selling activity outside the Municipality of Beijing, we will be required to obtain licenses from other municipalities and provinces within China. If we are unable to obtain additional necessary national and local government approvals in China as quickly as we would like, our ability to expand and grow our business could be negatively impacted. The process for obtaining the necessary government approvals to conduct direct selling continues to evolve. The process is time-consuming and expensive. The complexity of the approval process, as well as the government's continued cautious approach as direct selling develops in China, makes it difficult to predict the timeline for obtaining additional approvals. If the results of the government's evaluation of our direct selling activities result in further delays in obtaining licenses elsewhere, or if the current processes for obtaining approvals are delayed further for any reason or are changed or are interpreted differently than currently understood, our ability to expand direct selling in China and our growth prospects in this market, could be negatively impacted. We currently are only allowed by the PRC to sell through direct selling the limited number of products that are manufactured in China by us. If we wish to sell additional products (other than those already approved) through the direct-selling channel, we must successfully complete a product approval process similar to the process described above. We cannot assure that we will be successful in obtaining such additional product approvals on a timely basis or at all. A return to profit repatriation controls may limit the ability to expand business and reduce the attractiveness of investing in Chinese business opportunities. Chinese law allows enterprises owned by foreign investors to remit their profits, dividends and bonuses earned in China to other countries, and the remittance does not require prior approval by the State Administration of Foreign Exchange ("SAFE"). SAFE regulations require extensive documentation and reporting, some of which are burdensome and slows payments. If there is a return to payment restrictions and reporting, the ability of a Chinese company to attract investors will be reduced. Also, current investors may not be able to obtain the profits of the businesses they own for other reasons. Relevant Chinese law and regulation permit payment of dividends only from retained earnings, if any, determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. It is possible that the Chinese tax authorities may require changes in the calculation of distributable net income of our operations in China that may limit our ability to pay dividends and other distributions to stockholders. Chinese law requires companies to set aside a portion of net income to fund certain reserves, which amounts are not distributable as dividends. These rules and possible changes could restrict us from repatriating funds. Our ability to enforce our material agreements in China is uncertain. Chinese law will govern our material operating agreements. There is no assurance that we will be able to enforce those material agreements or that remedies will be available outside China. The Chinese judiciary is relatively inexperienced in enforcing corporate and commercial laws, leading to a substantial degree of 31 Table of Contents uncertainty as to the outcome of litigation. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under our agreements may have a material adverse impact on our operations. Intellectual property rights are difficult to enforce in China. Chinese commercial law is relatively undeveloped compared to most of our other major markets, and, as a result, we may have limited legal recourse in the event we encounter significant difficulties with patent or trademark infringers. Limited protection of intellectual property is available under Chinese law, and the local manufacturing of our products may subject us to an increased risk that unauthorized parties may attempt to manufacture and sell counterfeited products or copy or otherwise obtain or use our product formulations. As a result, we cannot assure that we will be able to adequately protect our product formulations or other intellectual property in China. An increase in the amount of incentives paid to Associates reduces our profitability. The payment of Associate incentives is our most significant expense. These incentives include commissions, bonuses, and certain awards and prizes. From time to time, we adjust our Compensation Plan to better manage these incentives as a percentage of net sales. We closely monitor the amount of Associate incentives that are paid as a percentage of net sales, and may periodically adjust our Compensation Plan to prevent Associate incentives from having a significant adverse effect on our earnings. There can be no assurance that changes to the Compensation Plan or product pricing will be successful in achieving target levels of Associate incentives as a percentage of net sales. Furthermore, such changes may make it difficult to attract and retain qualified and motivated Associates or cause us to lose some of our longer-standing Associates. Our business is subject to the risks associated with intense competition from larger, wealthier, and more established competitors. We face intense competition in the business of distributing and marketing nutritional supplements, vitamins and minerals, personal care products, and other nutritional products, as described in greater detail in "Business—Competition." Numerous manufacturers, Associates, and retailers compete actively for consumers and, in the case of other network marketing companies, for Associates. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete in this intensely competitive environment. In addition, nutrition and personal care products can be purchased in a wide variety of channels of distribution, including retail stores. Our product offerings in each product category are also relatively small, compared to the wide variety of products offered by many of our competitors. We are also subject to significant competition from other network marketing organizations for the time, attention, and commitment of new and existing Associates. Our ability to remain competitive depends, in significant part, on our success in recruiting and retaining Associates. There can be no assurance that our programs for recruiting and retaining Associates will be successful. The pool of individuals who may be interested in network marketing is limited in each market, and it is reduced to the extent other network marketing companies successfully recruit these individuals into their businesses. Although we believe we offer an attractive opportunity for Associates, there can be no assurance that other network marketing companies will not be able to recruit our existing Associates or deplete the pool of potential Associates in a given market. Taxation and transfer pricing considerations affect our operations. In many countries, including the United States, we are subject to transfer pricing and other tax regulations that are designed to ensure that appropriate levels of income are reported by our U.S. and foreign entities and are taxed appropriately. Although we believe that we are in compliance with all material regulations and restrictions in this regard, we are subject to the risk that taxing authorities could audit our transfer pricing and related practices and assert that additional taxes are owed. We are also subject to the risk that taxing authorities in any of our markets could change the laws in a manner that may increase our effective tax rate and/or duties on our products. Under tax treaties, we are eligible to receive foreign tax credits in the United States for foreign taxes actually paid abroad. In the event any audits or 32 Table of Contents assessments are concluded adversely to us, we may or may not be able to offset the consolidated effect of foreign income tax assessments through the use of U.S. foreign tax credits. Currently, we are utilizing all foreign tax credits in the year in which they arise. Because the laws and regulations governing U.S. foreign tax credits are complex and subject to periodic legislative amendment, we cannot be sure that we would in fact be able to take advantage of any foreign tax credits in the future. As a result, adverse outcomes in these matters could have a material impact on our financial condition or operating results. Fluctuation in the value of currency exchange rates with the U.S. dollar affects our operations and our net sales and earnings. Over the past several years, a significant portion of our net sales have been generated outside the United States. Such sales for the year ended December 31, 2011 represented 74.6% of our total net sales. We will likely continue to expand our operations into new markets, exposing us to expanding risks of changes in social, political, and economic conditions, including changes in the laws and policies that govern investment or exchange in these markets. Because a significant portion of our sales are generated outside the United States, exchange rate fluctuations will have a significant effect on our sales and earnings. Further, if exchange rates fluctuate dramatically, it may become uneconomical for us to establish or to continue activities in certain countries. For instance, changes in currency exchange rates may affect the relative prices at which we and our competitors sell similar products in the same market. As our business expands outside the United States, an increasing share of our net sales and operating costs will be transacted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Accounting practices require that our non-U.S. financial results be converted to U.S. dollars for reporting purposes. Consequently, our reported net earnings may be significantly affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, with earnings generally increasing with a weaker U.S. dollar and decreasing with a strengthening U.S. dollar. Product purchases by our subsidiaries are transacted in U.S. dollars. As our operations expand in countries where transactions may be made in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, our operating results will be increasingly subject to the risks of exchange rate fluctuations and we may not be able to accurately estimate the impact that these changes might have on our future business, product pricing, results of operations, or financial condition. In addition, the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to other currencies may also adversely affect our sales to customers outside the United States. Currently our strategy for reducing our exposure to currency fluctuation includes the timely and efficient repatriation of earnings from international markets and settlement of intercompany transactions. At times in the past we have sought to reduce exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates by creating offsetting positions through the use of currency exchange contracts on cash that we repatriate. We did not enter into any such contracts during 2011, but we may look to something like this in the coming year. We do not use derivative instruments for speculative purposes. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in protecting our operating results or cash flows from potentially adverse effects of currency exchange fluctuations. Any such adverse effects could also adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Disruptions to shipping channels that we use to distribute our products to international warehouses may adversely affect our margins and profitability in those markets. In the past, we have felt the impact of disruptions to the shipping channels used to distribute our products; these disruptions have included increased port congestion, a lack of capacity on the railroads, and a shortage of manpower. Although we have not recently experienced significant shipping disruptions, we continue to watch for signs of upcoming congestion. Congestion to ports can affect previously negotiated contracts with shipping companies, resulting in unexpected increases in shipping costs and reduction in our net sales. The inability to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials for products at favorable prices, or at all, or the inability to obtain certain products from third-party suppliers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We acquire all of our raw 33 Table of Contents materials for the manufacture of our products from third-party suppliers. Materials used in manufacturing our products are purchased through purchase order, often invoking pre-negotiated annual supply agreements. We have very few long-term agreements for the supply of these materials. We also contract with third-party manufacturers and suppliers for the production of some of our products, including most of our gelatin-capsuled supplements, Probiotic, Rev3 Energy™ Drink, our powdered drink mixes and nutrition bars, and certain of our personal care products. These third-party suppliers and manufacturers produce and, in most cases, package these products according to formulations that have been developed by, or in conjunction with, our in-house product development team. There is a risk that any of our suppliers or manufacturers could discontinue manufacturing our products or selling their products to us. Although we believe that we could establish alternate sources for most of our products, any delay in locating and establishing relationships with other sources could result in product shortages or back orders for products, with a resulting loss of net sales. In certain situations, we may be required to alter our products or to substitute different products from another source. We have, in the past, discontinued or temporarily stopped sales of certain products that were manufactured by third parties while those products were on back order. There can be no assurance that suppliers will provide the raw materials or manufactured products that are needed by us in the quantities that we request or at the prices that we are willing to pay. Because we do not control the actual production of certain raw materials and products, we are also subject to delays caused by any interruption in the production of these materials, based on conditions not within our control, including weather, crop conditions, transportation interruptions, strikes by supplier employees, and natural disasters or other catastrophic events. Shortages of raw materials may temporarily adversely affect our margins or our profitability related to the sale of those products. In the past, we have experienced temporary shortages of the raw materials used in certain of our nutritional products. Although we had identified multiple sources to supply such raw material ingredients, quantities of the materials we purchased during these shortages were at higher prices, which negatively impacted our gross margins for those products. While we periodically experience price increases due to unexpected raw material shortages and other unanticipated events, this has historically not resulted in a material effect on our overall cost of goods sold. However, there is no assurance that our raw materials will not be significantly adversely affected in the future, causing our profitability to be reduced. Nutritional supplement products may be supported by only limited availability of conclusive clinical studies. Our products include nutritional supplements that are made from vitamins, minerals, herbs, and other substances for which there is a long history of human consumption. Some of our products contain innovative ingredients or combinations of ingredients. Although we believe that all of our products are safe when taken as directed, there is little long-term experience with human consumption of certain of these product ingredients or combinations of ingredients in concentrated form. We conduct research and test the formulation and production of our products, but we have performed or sponsored only limited clinical studies. Furthermore, because we are highly dependent on consumers' perception of the efficacy, safety, and quality of our products, as well as similar products distributed by other companies, we could be adversely affected in the event that those products prove or are asserted to be ineffective or harmful to consumers or in the event of adverse publicity associated with any illness or other adverse effects resulting from consumers' use or misuse of our products or similar products of our competitors. As a manufacturer, we may be subject to product liability claims. As a manufacturer and a distributor of products for human consumption and topical application, we could become exposed to product liability claims and litigation. Additionally, the manufacture and sale of these products involves the risk of injury to consumers due to tampering by unauthorized third parties or product contamination. To date, we have not been a party to any product liability litigation, although, like any dietary supplement company, we have received reports from individuals who have asserted that they 34 Table of Contents suffered adverse consequences as a result of using our products. The number of reports we have received to date is nominal. These matters historically have been settled to our satisfaction and have not resulted in material payments. We are aware of no instance in which any of our products are or have been defective in any way that could give rise to material losses or expenditures related to product liability claims. Although we maintain product liability insurance, which we believe to be adequate for our needs, there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to such claims in the future or that our insurance coverage will be adequate. Our business is subject to particular intellectual property risks. Most of our products are not protected by patents. The labeling regulations governing our nutritional supplements require that the ingredients of such products be precisely and accurately indicated on product containers. Accordingly, patent protection for nutritional supplements often is impractical given the large number of manufacturers who produce nutritional supplements having many active ingredients in common. Additionally, the nutritional supplement industry is characterized by rapid change and frequent reformulations of products, as the body of scientific research and literature refines current understanding of the application and efficacy of certain substances and the interactions among various substances. In this respect, we maintain an active research and development program that is devoted to developing better, purer, and more effective formulations of our products. We protect our investment in research, as well as the techniques we use to improve the purity and effectiveness of our products, by relying on trade secret laws. We have also entered into confidentiality agreements with certain of our employees involved in research and development activities. Additionally, we endeavor to seek, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, trademark and trade dress protection for our products, which protection has been sought in the United States, Canada, and in many of the other countries in which we are either presently operating or plan to commence operations in the future. Notwithstanding our efforts, there can be no assurance that our efforts to protect our trade secrets and trademarks will be successful. Nor can there be any assurance that third-parties will not assert claims against us for infringement of their intellectual proprietary rights. If an infringement claim is asserted, we may be required to obtain a license of such rights, pay royalties on a retrospective or prospective basis, or terminate our manufacturing and marketing of our infringing products. Litigation with respect to such matters could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and other resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or operating results. Our manufacturing activity is subject to certain risks. We manufacture approximately 74% of the products sold to our customers at our Salt Lake City location. As a result, we are dependent upon the uninterrupted and efficient operation of our manufacturing facilities. Those operations are subject to power failures, the breakdown, failure, or substandard performance of equipment, the improper installation or operation of equipment, natural or other disasters, and the need to comply with the requirements or directives of government agencies, including the FDA. There can be no assurance that the occurrence of these or any other operational problems at our facility would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws relating to the storage, discharge, handling, emission, generation, manufacture, use and disposal of chemicals, solid and hazardous waste, and other toxic and hazardous materials. Our manufacturing operations presently do not result in the generation of material amounts of hazardous or toxic substances. Nevertheless, complying with new or more stringent laws or regulations, or more vigorous enforcement of current or future policies of regulatory agencies, could require substantial expenditures by us that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Environmental laws and regulations require us to maintain and comply with a number of permits, authorizations, and approvals and to maintain and update training programs and safety data regarding materials used in our processes. Violations of those requirements could result in financial penalties and other enforcement actions and could require us to halt one or more portions of our operations until a violation is cured. The combined costs of curing incidents of non-compliance, resolving enforcement actions that might be initiated by government authorities, or of satisfying new 35 Table of Contents legal requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. A failure of our information technology systems would harm our business. The global nature of our business and our seamless global compensation plan requires the development and implementation of robust and efficiently functioning information technology systems. Such systems are vulnerable to a variety of potential risks, including damage or interruption resulting from natural disasters and telecommunication failures and human error or intentional acts of sabotage, vandalism, break-ins and similar acts. Although we have adopted and implemented a business continuity and disaster recovery plan, which includes routine back-up, off-site archiving and storage, and certain redundancies, the occurrence of any of these events could result in costly interruptions or failures adversely affecting our business and the results of our operations. We may incur liability under our "Athlete Guarantee" program, if and to the extent participating athletes make a successful claim against USANA for testing positive for certain banned substances while taking USANA nutritional supplements. USANA believes that its nutritional supplement products are free from substances that have been banned by world-class training and competitive athletic programs. The Company retains independent testing agencies to conduct periodic checks for banned substances. The Company further believes that, while its products promote good health, they are not otherwise considered to be "performance enhancing" as that term has been used in defining substances that are banned from use in international competition by the World Anti-Doping Agency ("WADA"). For many years, USANA has been a sponsor of Olympic athletes and professional competitors around the world. These athletes have been tested on many occasions and have never tested positive for banned substances as a result of taking USANA nutritional products. To back up its claim that athletes who use the Company's products as part of their training regimen will not be consuming banned substances, the Company has offered to enter into agreements with select athletes, some of whom have high-profiles and are highly compensated, which state that, during the term of the agreement, should the athlete test positive for a banned substance included in the WADA, and should such positive result be the result of taking USANA nutritional products, USANA will compensate that athlete two times their current annual earnings up to one million dollars, based on the athlete's personal level of competition, endorsement, and other income, as well as other factors. To mitigate potential exposure under these agreements, we: •Designate lots identified as dedicated to the Athlete Guarantee program and retain additional samples; •Store designated lot samples externally with a third-party; and •Establish a chain of custody that requires signatures on behalf of USANA and the third-party to transfer possession of the product lots and that restricts access by USANA employees after the transfer. All applicants to this Athlete Guarantee program are subject to screening and acceptance by the Company in its sole discretion. Contracts are tailored to fit the athlete's individual circumstances and the amount of the Company's exposure is limited based on the level of sponsorship of the participating athlete. Although the Company believes that the pool of current and potential participants in the program is small, there is no guarantee that an athlete who is accepted in the program will not successfully make a claim against us. The Company currently has no insurance to protect it from potential claims under this program. Based on the mitigating factors, screening process and the Company's view that its products are not "performance enhancing," management believes there is a less than remote chance that the Company will incur a liability under the Athlete Guarantee program. 36 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 