Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Relating to Our Business We have a history of losses since inception and if we continue to incur losses, the price of our shares can be expected to fall. We have experienced losses since inception. We expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future as we expend substantial resources on sales, marketing, and research and development of our products. From our inception through June 30, 2011, our cumulative losses from operations are approximately $194 million. For our fiscal years ended June 30, 2011, 2010, and 2009, we have incurred net losses of $6,457,067, $11,571,495, and $13,731,818, respectively. Our revenues have not been sufficient to sustain our operations. If we continue to incur losses, the price of our common stock can be expected to fall. No assurances can be given that we will ever be profitable. We may require additional financing to sustain our operations and without it we may not be able to continue operations. At June 30, 2011, we had working capital of $11,546,502. We had an operating cash flow deficit of $5,171,529, $12,347,182, and $8,477,680, for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. Based upon past business operations, we may not currently have sufficient financial resources to fund our operations after July 1, 2012. Therefore, we may need additional funds to continue these operations. Should the financing we require to sustain our working capital needs be unavailable or prohibitively expensive when we require it, the consequences could be a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects. Our existence is dependent on our ability to raise capital that may not be available. There can be no assurance that our business will prove financially profitable or generate sufficient revenues to cover our expenses. From inception, we have generated funds primarily through the sale of securities. Although we believe that we have adequate existing resources to provide for our funding requirements through at least July 1, 2012, there can be no assurances that we will be able to continue to generate sufficient funds thereafter. We expect to raise funds in the future through sales of our debt or equity securities until such time, if ever, as we are able to operate profitably. Subsequent to July 1, 2012, our inability to obtain needed funding can be expected to have a material adverse effect on our operations and our ability to achieve profitability. If we fail to generate increased revenues or fail to sell additional securities, you may lose all or a substantial portion of your investment. Our products may fail to gain widespread market acceptance. As a result, we may not generate sufficient revenues or profit margins to become successful. There can be no assurances that demand for our products will be sufficient to enable us to generate sufficient revenue or become profitable. Likewise, no assurance can be given that we will be able to achieve a sufficient number of ePorts® connected to our network or sell equipment utilizing our network or our energy management products to enough locations to achieve significant revenues or that our operations can be conducted profitably. Alternatively, the locations which would utilize the network may not be successful locations and our revenues would be adversely affected. We may in the future lose locations utilizing our products to competitors, or may not be able to install our products at competitors’ locations, or may not obtain future locations which would be obtained by our competitors. In addition, there can be no assurance that our products could evolve or be improved to meet the future needs of the marketplace. We may be required to incur further debt to meet future capital requirements of our business. Should we be required to incur additional debt, the restrictions imposed by the terms of such debt could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to respond to changes in our business. If we incur additional debt, we may be subject to the following risks: ● our vulnerability to adverse economic conditions and competitive pressures may be heightened; ● our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry may be limited; ● our debt covenants may affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in the economy and in our industry; ● a high level of debt may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged and therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our indebtedness would prevent us from pursuing; ● the covenants contained in the agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness may limit our ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of assets, pay dividends and make certain investments; 20 ● a significant portion of our cash flows could be used to service our indebtedness; ● we may be sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates if any of our debt obligations are subject to variable interest rates; and ● our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes may be impaired. We cannot assure you that our leverage and such restrictions will not materially and adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. In addition, we cannot assure you that additional financing will be available when required or, if available, will be on terms satisfactory to us. Current conditions in the global financial markets and the distressed economy may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and ability to raise capital. Our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected by the continued adverse conditions in the financial markets and the economy generally. Declining business and consumer confidence and the risks of increased or continued unemployment, have precipitated an economic slowdown and ongoing recession. These events and the continuing market upheavals may have an adverse effect on us, our suppliers and our customers. The demand for our products could be adversely affected in an economic downturn and our revenues may decline under such circumstances. We rely on the equity markets for funding our business by issuing equity securities. We may find it difficult, or we may not be able, to access the equity markets, or we may experience higher funding costs as a result of the current adverse market conditions. Continued instability in these markets may limit our ability to access the capital we may require to fund and grow our business. The loss of one or more of our key customers could significantly reduce our revenues and profits. We have derived, and believe we may continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of large customers. Approximately 22% and 52% of the Company’s accounts and finance receivables at June 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively, were concentrated with one and two (28% with one customer and 24% with another customer) customer(s), respectively. Approximately 48%, 52%, and 44% of the Company’s license and transaction processing revenues for the years ended June 30, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively, were concentrated with two (25% with one and 23% with another), two (35% with one and 17% with another), and one customer(s), respectively. There was no concentration of equipment sales revenue for the year ended June 30, 2011. For each of the years ended June 30, 2010 and 2009 approximately 11% of the Company’s equipment sales revenue was concentrated with one customer. The Company’s customers are principally located in the United States. Our customers may buy less of our products or services depending on their own technological developments, end-user demand for our products and internal budget cycles. A major customer in one year may not purchase any of our products or services in another year, which may negatively affect our financial performance. If any of our large customers significantly reduce or delay purchases from us or if we are required to sell products to them at reduced prices or unfavorable terms, our results of operations and revenue could be materially adversely affected. We depend on our key personnel and if they would leave us, our business could be adversely affected. We are dependent on key management personnel, particularly the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, George R. Jensen, Jr. The loss of services of Mr. Jensen or other executive officers would dramatically affect our business prospects. Certain of our employees are particularly valuable to us because: ● they have specialized knowledge about our company and operations; ● they have specialized skills that are important to our operations; or ● they would be particularly difficult to replace. We have entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Jensen that expires on June 30, 2014. We have also entered into employment agreements with other executive officers, each of which contain confidentiality and non-compete agreements. We have obtained a key man life insurance policy in the amount of $1,000,000 on Mr. Jensen and a key man life insurance policy in the amount of $1,000,000 on our President, Stephen P. Herbert. We do not have and do not intend to obtain key man life insurance coverage on any of our other executive officers. As a result, we are exposed to the costs associated with the death of these key employees. We also may be unable to retain other existing senior management, sales personnel and development and engineering personnel critical to our ability to execute our business plan, which could result in harm to key customer relationships, loss of key information, expertise or know-how and unanticipated recruitment and training costs. 21 Our dependence on proprietary technology and limited ability to protect our intellectual property may adversely affect our ability to compete. Challenge to our ownership of our intellectual property could materially damage our business prospects. Our technology may infringe upon the proprietary rights of others. Our ability to execute our business plan is dependent, in part, on our ability to obtain patent protection for our proprietary products, maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. Through June 30, 2011, we had 12 pending United States and foreign patent applications, and intend to file applications for additional patents covering our future products, although there can be no assurance that we will do so. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will maintain or prosecute these applications. The United States Government and other countries have granted us 81 patents as of June 30, 2011. There can be no assurance that: ● any of the remaining patent applications will be granted to us; ● we will develop additional products that are patentable or do not infringe the patents of others; ● any patents issued to us will provide us with any competitive advantages or adequate protection for our products; ● any patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others; or ● any of our products would not infringe the patents of others. If any of the products are found to have infringed any patent, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain licenses to continue to manufacture and license such product or that we will not have to pay damages as a result of such infringement. Even if a patent application is granted for any of our products, there can be no assurance that the patented technology will be a commercial success or result in any profits to us. If we are unable to adequately protect our proprietary technology, third parties may be able to compete more effectively against us, which could result in the loss of customers and our business being adversely affected. Patent and proprietary rights litigation entails substantial legal and other costs, and diverts Company resources as well as the attention of our management. There can be no assurance we will have the necessary financial resources to appropriately defend or prosecute our rights in connection with any such litigation. Competition from others could prevent the Company from increasing revenue and achieving profitability. Competition from other companies, including those that are well established and have substantially greater resources may reduce our profitability or reduce our business opportunities. Many of our competitors have established reputations for success in the development, sale and service of high quality products. We face competition from the following groups: ● companies offering automated, credit card activated control systems in connection with facsimile machines, personal computers, debit card purchase/revalue stations, vending machines, and use of the Internet and e-mail which directly compete with our products; ● companies which have developed unattended, credit card activated control systems currently used in connection with public telephones, prepaid telephone cards, gasoline dispensing machines, or vending machines and are capable of developing control systems in direct competition with the Company; ● businesses which provide access to the Internet and personal computers to hotel guests. Although these services are not credit card activated, such services would compete with the Company’s Business Express®; and ● two direct competitors, Elstat Electronics Ltd. and Automatic Retailing Ltd., in the energy management industry. In addition, it is also possible that a company not currently engaged in any of the businesses described above could develop services and products that compete with our services and products. Competition may result in lower profit margins on our products or may reduce potential profits or result in a loss of some or all of our customer base. To the extent that our competitors are able to offer more attractive technology, our ability to compete could be adversely affected. As stated above under “Business-Competition”, The National Automatic Merchandising Association (‘NAMA”), an association serving the vending, coffee service, and food service management industries has announced a cashless vending program for their members which offers the products and services of one or more of the Company’s current competitors. 22 The termination of any of our relationships with third parties upon whom we rely for supplies and services that are critical to our products could adversely affect our business and delay achievement of our business plan. We depend on arrangements with third parties for a variety of component parts used in our products. We have contracted with various suppliers to assist us to develop and manufacture our ePort® products and with various suppliers to manufacture our Energy Miser® products. For other components, we do not have supply contracts with any of our third-party suppliers and we purchase components as needed from time to time. We have contracted with DBSi to host our network in a secure, 24/7 environment to ensure the reliability of our network services. We also have contracted with multiple land-based telecommunications providers to ensure the reliability of our land-based network. If these business relationships are terminated, the implementation of our business plan may be delayed until an alternative supplier or service provider can be retained. If we are unable to find another source or one that is comparable, the content and quality of our products could suffer and our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. A disruption in the manufacturing capabilities of our third-party manufacturers, suppliers or distributors would negatively impact our ability to meet customer requirements. We depend upon third-party manufacturers, suppliers and distributors to deliver components free from defects, competitive in functionality and cost, and in compliance with our specifications and delivery schedules. Since we generally do not maintain large inventories of our products or components, any termination of, or significant disruption in, our manufacturing capability or our relationship with our third-party manufacturers or suppliers may prevent us from filling customer orders in a timely manner. We have occasionally experienced, and may in the future experience, delays in delivery of products and delivery of products of inferior quality from third-party manufacturers. Although alternate manufacturers and suppliers are generally available to produce our products and product components, the number of manufacturers or suppliers of some of our products and components is limited, and a qualified replacement manufacturer or supplier could take several months. In addition, our use of third-party manufacturers reduces our direct control over product quality, manufacturing timing, yields and costs. Disruption of the manufacture or supply of our products and components, or a third-party manufacturer’s or supplier’s failure to remain competitive in functionality, quality or price, could delay or interrupt our ability to manufacture or deliver our products to customers on a timely basis, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. Substantially all of the network service contracts with our customers are terminable for any or no reason upon 30 to 60 days’ advance notice. Substantially all of our customers may terminate their network service contracts with us for any or no reason upon providing us with 30 or 60-days’ advance notice. Accordingly, consistent demand for and satisfaction with our products by our customers is critical to our financial condition and future success. Problems, defects or dissatisfaction with our products or services could cause us to lose a substantial number of our customers with minimal notice. If a substantial number of our customers were to exercise their termination rights, it would result in a material adverse effect to our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our reliance on our wireless telecommunication service provider exposes us to a number of risks over which we have no control, including risks with respect to increased prices and termination of essential services. The operation of our wirelessly networked devices depends upon the capacity, reliability and security of services provided to us by our wireless telecommunication services providers, AT&T Mobility and Verizon Wireless. We have no control over the operation, quality or maintenance of these services or whether the vendor will improve its services or continue to provide services that are essential to our business. In addition, subject to our existing contracts with them, our wireless telecommunication services providers may increase their prices, which would increase our costs. If our wireless telecommunication services providers were to cease to provide essential services or to significantly increase prices, we could be required to find alternative vendors for these services. With a limited number of vendors, we could experience significant delays in obtaining new or replacement services, which could lead to slowdowns or failures of our network. In addition, we may have to replace our existing ePort® devices that are already installed in the marketplace and which are utilizing the existing vendor’s services. This could significantly harm our reputation and could cause us to lose customers and revenues. Our products may contain defects that may be difficult or even impossible to correct, which could result in lost sales, additional costs and customer erosion. We offer technically complex products which, when first introduced or released in new versions, may contain software or hardware defects that are difficult to detect and correct. The existence of defects and delays in correcting them could result in negative consequences, including the following: ● delays in shipping products; ● cancellation of orders; 23 ● additional warranty expense; ● delays in the collection of receivables; ● product returns; ● the loss of market acceptance of our products; ● diversion of research and development resources from new product development; and ● inventory write-downs. Even though we test all of our products, defects may continue to be identified after products are shipped. In past periods, we have experienced various issues in connection with product launches, including the need to rework certain products and stabilize product designs. Correcting defects can be a time-consuming and difficult task. Software errors may take several months to correct, and hardware errors may take even longer. We may accumulate excess or obsolete inventory that could result in unanticipated price reductions and write downs and adversely affect our financial results. Managing the proper inventory levels for components and finished products is challenging. In formulating our product offerings, we have focused our efforts on providing products with greater capability and functionality, which requires us to develop and incorporate the most current technologies in our products. This approach tends to increase the risk of obsolescence for products and components we hold in inventory and may compound the difficulties posed by other factors that affect our inventory levels, including the following: ● the need to maintain significant inventory of components that are in limited supply; ● buying components in bulk for the best pricing; ● responding to the unpredictable demand for products; ● responding to customer requests for short lead-time delivery schedules; ● failure of customers to take delivery of ordered products; and ● product returns. If we accumulate excess or obsolete inventory, price reductions and inventory write-downs may result, which could adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. We may not be able to adapt to changing technology and our customers’ technology needs. We face rapidly changing technology and frequent new service offerings by competitors that can render existing services obsolete or unmarketable. Our future depends, in part, on our ability to enhance existing services and to develop, introduce and market, on a timely and cost effective basis, new services that keep pace with technological developments and customer requirements. Developing new products and technologies is a complex, uncertain process requiring innovation and accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. When changes to the product line are announced, we will be challenged to manage possible shortened life cycles for existing products, continue to sell existing products and prevent customers from returning existing products. Our inability to respond effectively to any of these challenges may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial success. Security is vital to our customers and therefore breaches in the security of transactions involving our products or services could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. Protection against fraud is of key importance to purchasers and end-users of our products. We incorporate security features, such as encryption software and secure hardware, into our products to protect against fraud in electronic payment transactions and to ensure the privacy and integrity of consumer data. Our products may be vulnerable to breaches in security due to defects in the security mechanisms, the operating system and applications or the hardware platform. Security vulnerabilities could jeopardize the security of information transmitted or stored using our products. In general, liability associated with security breaches of a certified electronic payment system belongs to the institution that acquires the financial transaction. In addition, we have not experienced any material security breaches affecting our business. However, if the security of the information in our products is compromised, our reputation and marketplace acceptance of our products will be adversely affected, which would adversely affect our results of operations, and subject us to potential liability. If our security applications are breached and sensitive data is lost or stolen, we could incur significant costs to not only assess and repair any damage to our systems, but also to reimburse customers for losses that occur from the fraudulent use of the data. We may also be subject to fines and penalties from the credit card associations in the event of the loss of confidential card information. Adverse publicity raising concerns about the safety or privacy of electronic transactions, or widely reported breaches of our or another provider’s security, have the potential to undermine consumer confidence in the technology and could have a materially adverse effect on our business. 24 Our products and services may be vulnerable to security breach. Credit card issuers have promulgated credit card security guidelines as part of their ongoing efforts to battle identity theft and credit card fraud. We continue to work with credit card issuers to assure that our products and services comply with these rules. There can be no assurances, however, that our products and services are invulnerable to unauthorized access or hacking. When there is unauthorized access to credit card data that results in financial loss, there is the potential that parties could seek damages from us. If we fail to adhere to the standards of the Visa and MasterCard credit card associations, our registrations with these associations could be terminated and we could be required to stop providing payment processing services for Visa and MasterCard. Substantially all of the transactions handled by our network involve Visa or MasterCard. If we fail to comply with the applicable requirements of the Visa and MasterCard credit card associations, Visa or MasterCard could suspend or terminate our registration with them. The termination of our registration with them or any changes in the Visa or MasterCard rules that would impair our registration with them could require us to stop providing payment processing services through our network. We rely on other card payment processors and service providers; if they fail or no longer agree to provide their services, our customer relationships could be adversely affected and we could lose business. We rely on agreements with other large payment processing organizations, primarily Elavon, Inc. (“Elavon”), to enable us to provide card authorization, data capture, settlement and merchant accounting services and access to various reporting tools for the customers we serve. Many of these organizations and service providers are our competitors and our agreements are subject to termination by them. The termination by our service providers of their arrangements with us or their failure to perform their services efficiently and effectively may adversely affect our relationships with the customers whose accounts we serve and may cause those customers to terminate their processing agreements with us. We are subject to laws and regulations that affect the products, services and markets in which we operate. Failure by us to comply with these laws or regulations would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We are, among other things, subject to banking regulations and credit card association regulations. Failure to comply with these regulations may result in the suspension or revocation of our business, the limitation, suspension or termination of service, and/or the imposition of fines that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Additionally, changes to legal rules and regulations, or interpretation or enforcement thereof, could have a negative financial effect on us or our product offerings. The payment processing industry may become subject to regulation as a result of recent data security breaches that have exposed consumer data to potential fraud. To the extent this occurs, we could be subject to additional technical, contractual or other requirements as a condition of our continuing to conduct our payment processing business. These requirements could cause us to incur additional costs, which could be significant, or to lose revenues to the extent we do not comply with these requirements. New legislation could be enacted regulating the basis upon which interchange rates are charged for debit or credit card transactions, which could increase the debit or credit card interchange fees charged by bankcard networks. An example of such legislation is the so-called “Durbin Amendment,” to the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010. The Durbin Amendment was recently enacted and regulates the basis upon which interchange rates for debit card transactions are made to ensure that interchange rates are “reasonable and proportionate to costs.” As discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, pursuant to regulations that were recently promulgated by the Federal Reserve, our credit and debit card processor has notified us that effective October 1, 2011, Visa and MasterCard are significantly increasing their interchange fees for small ticket debit card transactions. During the 2011 fiscal year, debit card transactions represented 82% of the number of transactions handled by our network. At the present time, the impact on our business is still uncertain. We anticipate that these significant increases would be passed on to our customers or we would cease to accept debit cards in our ePort and other devices. In either such event, there is the possibility that our customers would cancel their agreements with us resulting in a significant reduction in our licensing and transaction fee revenues. In addition, there is the possibility that customers would not order ePorts or other devices in the future at the levels currently anticipated by us. Increases in card association and debit network interchange fees could increase our operating costs or otherwise adversely affect our operations. If we do not pass along to our customers any increases in credit or debit card interchange fees, assessments and transaction fees, our gross profits would be reduced. We are obligated to pay interchange fees and other network fees set by the bankcard networks to the card issuing bank and the bankcard networks for each transaction we process through our network. From time to time, card associations and debit networks increase the organization and/or processing fees, known as interchange fees that they charge. Under our processing agreements with our customers, we are permitted to pass along these fee increases to our customers through corresponding increases in our processing fees. Passing along such increases could result in some of our customers canceling their contracts with us. Consequently, it is possible that competitive pressures will result in our Company absorbing some or all of the increases in the future, which would increase our operating costs, reduce our gross profit and adversely affect our business. 25 Visa and MasterCard have indicated that, effective October 1, 2011, their interchange fees for small ticket category transactions paid for through debit cards issued by regulated banks would increase from 1.55% of a transaction plus 4 cents, to 0.5% of a transaction plus 22 cents, which represents an increase of approximately 247% based on a transaction of $1.67, which was the average transaction experienced by the Company during fiscal year 2011. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011, approximately 82% of the transactions handled by our network consisted of small ticket debit card transactions. If we are not able to pass along such interchange fee increase to our customers or take steps to recover these increased fees, our gross profit from license and transaction fee revenues and our financial performance would be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We do not expect to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future and therefore investors should not anticipate cash dividends on their investment. The holders of our common stock and series A convertible preferred stock are entitled to receive dividends when, and if, declared by our board of directors. Our board of directors does not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future, but instead intends to retain any and all earnings to finance the growth of the business. To date, we have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock or our series A convertible preferred stock and there can be no assurance that cash dividends will ever be paid on our common stock. In addition, our articles of incorporation prohibit the declaration of any dividends on our common stock unless and until all unpaid and accumulated dividends on the series A convertible preferred stock have been declared and paid. Through August 31, 2011, the unpaid and cumulative dividends on the series A convertible preferred stock are $10,599,646. Each share of series A convertible preferred stock is convertible into 1/100th of a share of common stock at the option of the holder. The unpaid and cumulative dividends on the series A convertible preferred stock are convertible into shares of our common stock at the rate of $1,000 per share at the option of the holder. During the years ended June 30, 2011, a total of 1,500 shares of our series A convertible preferred stock and $33,000 worth of cumulative preferred dividends were converted into 15 and 33 shares of common stock, respectively. We may issue additional shares of our common stock, which could depress the market price of our common stock and dilute your ownership. As of August 31, 2011, we had issued and outstanding options to purchase 90,666 shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase 15,562,649 shares of our common stock. The shares underlying none of these options, and 14,595,432 of these warrants have been registered and may be freely sold. From inception, we have financed our business primarily through the sale of our common stock. Market sales of large amounts of our common stock, or the potential for those sales even if they do not actually occur, may have the effect of depressing the market price of our common stock. In addition, if our future financing needs require us to issue additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into common stock, the supply of common stock available for resale could be increased which could stimulate trading activity and cause the market price of our common stock to drop, even if our business is doing well. Furthermore, the issuance of any additional shares of our common stock including those pursuant to the exercise of warrants by the holders thereof, or securities convertible into our common stock could be substantially dilutive to holders of our common stock if they do not invest in future offerings. Our stock price may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock is expected to be subject to significant fluctuations in response to various factors including, but not limited to, the following: ● quarterly variations in operating results and achievement of key business metrics; ● changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts, if any; ● any differences between reported results and securities analysts’ published or unpublished expectations; ● announcements of new contracts, service offerings or technological innovations by us or our competitors; ● market reaction to any acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic investments announced by us or our competitors; ● demand for our services and products; ● shares being sold pursuant to Rule 144 or upon exercise of warrants; ● regulatory matters; 26 ● concerns about our financial position, operating results, litigation, government regulation, developments or disputes relating to agreements, patents or proprietary rights; ● potential dilutive effects of future sales of shares of common stock by shareholders and by the Company, and subsequent sale of common stock by the holders of warrants and options; ● our ability to obtain working capital financing; and ● general economic or stock market conditions unrelated to our operating performance. The securities market in recent years has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations, as well as general economic conditions, may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The substantial market overhang of our shares will tend to depress the market price of our shares. The substantial number of our shares currently eligible for sale in the open market will tend to depress the market price of our shares. As of August 31, 2011, these shares consisted of the following: ● 32,285,690 shares of common stock; ● 442,968 shares of series A convertible preferred stock; ● 10,600 shares issuable upon conversion of the accrued and unpaid dividends on the series A convertible preferred stock; ● 15,562,649 shares underlying common stock warrants; ● 190,082 shares issuable under our 2010 Stock Incentive Plan; and ● 300,000 shares issuable under our 2011 Stock Incentive Plan. Director and officer liability is limited. As permitted by Pennsylvania law, our by-laws limit the liability of our directors for monetary damages for breach of a director’s fiduciary duty except for liability in certain instances. As a result of our by-law provisions and Pennsylvania law, shareholders may have limited rights to recover against directors for breach of fiduciary duty. In addition, our by-laws and indemnification agreements entered into by the Company with each of the officers and directors provide that we shall indemnify our directors and officers to the fullest extent permitted by law. Our publicly-filed reports are reviewed by the SEC from time to time and any significant changes required as a result of any such review may result in material liability to us, and have a material adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. The reports of publicly-traded companies are subject to review by the SEC from time to time for the purpose of assisting companies in complying with applicable disclosure requirements and to enhance the overall effectiveness of companies’ public filings, and comprehensive reviews of such reports are now required at least every three years under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. SEC reviews may be initiated at any time. While we believe that our previously filed SEC reports comply, and we intend that all future reports will comply in all material respects with the published SEC rules and regulations, we could be required to modify or reformulate information contained in prior filings as a result of an SEC review. Any modification or reformulation of information contained in such reports could be significant and result in material liability to us and have a material adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. 27 