Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Relating to Our Business We have a history of losses since inception and if we continue to incur losses the price of our shares can be expected to fall. We have experienced losses since inception. We expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future as we expend substantial resources on sales, marketing, and research and development of our products. From our inception through June 30, 2009, our cumulative losses from operations are approximately $176 million. For our fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, we have incurred net losses of $13,731,818, $16,417,893, $17,782,458, respectively. If we continue to incur losses, the price of our common stock can be expected to fall. Our existence is dependent on our ability to raise capital that may not be available. There is currently limited experience upon which to assume that our business will prove financially profitable or generate sufficient revenues to cover our expenses. From inception, we have generated funds primarily through the sale of securities. Although we believe that we have adequate existing resources to provide for our funding requirements through at least July 1, 2010, there can be no assurances that we will be able to continue to generate sufficient funds thereafter. We expect to raise funds in the future through sales of our debt or equity securities until such time, if ever, as we are able to operate profitably. Subsequent to July 1, 2010, our inability to obtain needed funding can be expected to have a material adverse effect on our operations and our ability to achieve profitability. If we fail to generate increased revenues or fail to sell additional securities, you may lose all or a substantial portion of your investment. Our products may fail to gain widespread market acceptance. As a result, we may not generate sufficient revenues or profit margins to become successful. There can be no assurances that demand for our products will be sufficient to enable us to generate sufficient revenue or become profitable. Likewise, no assurance can be given that we will be able to install the e-Ports® at enough locations or sell equipment utilizing our network or our energy management products to enough locations to achieve significant revenues or that our operations can be conducted profitably. Alternatively, the locations which would utilize the network may not be successful locations and our revenues would be adversely affected. We may in the future lose locations utilizing our products to competitors, or may not be able to install our products at competitors’ locations. In addition, there can be no assurance that our products could evolve or be improved to meet the future needs of the market place. We may be required to incur further debt to meet future capital requirements of our business. Should we be required to incur additional debt, the restrictions imposed by the terms of our debt could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to respond to changes in our business. If we incur additional debt, we may be subject to the following risks: ● our vulnerability to adverse economic conditions and competitive pressures may be heightened; ● our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry may be limited; ● we may be sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates if any of our debt obligations are subject to variable interest rates; and ● our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes may be impaired. We cannot assure you that our leverage and such restrictions will not materially and adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. In addition, we cannot assure you that additional financing will be available when required or, if available, will be on terms satisfactory to us. 21 Current conditions in the global financial markets and the distressed economy may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and ability to raise capital. Our business and results of operations may be materially affected by conditions in the financial markets and the economy generally. The stress being experienced by global financial markets that began in late 2007 continued and substantially increased during 2008 and into 2009. The volatility and disruption in the financial markets have reached unprecedented levels. The availability and cost of credit has been materially affected. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, depressed home prices and increasing foreclosures, falling equity market values, declining business and consumer confidence and the risks of increased inflation and unemployment, have precipitated an economic slowdown and severe recession. These events and the continuing market upheavals may have an adverse effect on us, our suppliers and our customers. The demand for our products could be adversely affected in an economic downturn and our revenues may decline under such circumstances. Furthermore, the fixed-income markets are experiencing a period of both extreme volatility and limited market liquidity, which has affected a broad range of asset classes and sectors. Equity markets have also been experiencing heightened volatility. We rely on the credit and equity markets for funding our business by issuing debt and equity securities. We may find it difficult, or we may not be able, to access the credit or equity markets, or we may experience higher funding costs as a result of the current adverse market conditions. Continued instability in these markets may limit our ability to access the capital we require to fund and grow our business. The loss of one or more of our key customers could significantly reduce our revenues and profits. We have derived, and believe we may continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of large customers. Approximately 32% and 68% of the Company’s accounts and finance receivables at June 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively, were concentrated with one and two customers, respectively. Approximately 11%, 61% and 40% of the Company’s revenues for the years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, were concentrated with one, two (34% with one customer and 27% with another customer), and one customer(s), respectively. The Company’s customers are principally located in the United States. Our customers may buy less of our products or services depending on their own technological developments, end-user demand for our products and internal budget cycles. A major customer in one year may not purchase any of our products or services in another year, which may negatively affect our financial performance. If any of our large customers significantly reduce or delay purchases from us or if we are required to sell products to them at reduced prices or unfavorable terms, our results of operations and revenue could be materially adversely affected. We depend on our key personnel and if they would leave us, our business could be adversely affected. We are dependent on key management personnel, particularly the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, George R. Jensen, Jr. The loss of services of Mr. Jensen or other executive officers would dramatically affect our business prospects. Certain of our employees are particularly valuable to us because: ● they have specialized knowledge about our company and operations; ● they have specialized skills that are important to our operations; or ● they would be particularly difficult to replace. We have entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Jensen that expires on June 30, 2011. We have also entered into employment agreements with other executive officers, each of which contain confidentiality and non-compete agreements. We have obtained a key man life insurance policy in the amount of $1,000,000 on Mr. Jensen and a key man life insurance policy in the amount of $1,000,000 on our President, Stephen P. Herbert. We do not have and do not intend to obtain key man life insurance coverage on any of our other executive officers. As a result, we are exposed to the costs associated with the death of these key employees. We also may be unable to retain other existing senior management, sales personnel and development and engineering personnel critical to our ability to execute our business plan, which could result in harm to key customer relationships, loss of key information, expertise or know-how and unanticipated recruitment and training costs. Our dependence on proprietary technology and limited ability to protect our intellectual property may adversely affect our ability to compete. Challenge to our ownership of our intellectual property could materially damage our business prospects. Our technology may infringe upon the proprietary rights of others. Our ability to execute our business plan is dependent, in part, on our ability to obtain patent protection for our proprietary products, maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. 22 Through June 30, 2009, we have 17 pending patent applications, and intend to file applications for additional patents covering our future products, although there can be no assurance that we will do so. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will maintain or prosecute these applications. The United States Government and other countries have granted us 72 patents as of June 30, 2009. There can be no assurance that: ● any of the remaining patent applications will be granted to us; ● we will develop additional products that are patentable or do not infringe the patents of others; ● any patents issued to us will provide us with any competitive advantages or adequate protection for our products; ● any patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others; or ● any of our products would not infringe the patents of others. If any of the products are found to have infringed any patent, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain licenses to continue to manufacture and license such product or that we will not have to pay damages as a result of such infringement. Even if a patent application is granted for any of our products, there can be no assurance that the patented technology will be a commercial success or result in any profits to us. If we are unable to adequately protect our proprietary technology, third parties may be able to compete more effectively against us, which could result in the loss of customers and our business being adversely affected. Patent and proprietary rights litigation entails substantial legal and other costs, and diverts company resources as well as the attention of our management. There can be no assurance we will have the necessary financial resources to appropriately defend or prosecute our rights in connection with any such litigation. Competition from others with greater resources could prevent the Company from increasing revenue and achieving profitability. Competition from other companies that are well established and have substantially greater resources may reduce our profitability or reduce our business opportunities. Many of our competitors have established reputations for success in the development, sale and service of high quality products. We face competition from the following groups: ● companies offering automated, credit card activated control systems in connection with facsimile machines, personal computers, debit card purchase/revalue stations, and use of the Internet and e-mail which directly compete with our products; ● companies which have developed unattended, credit card activated control systems currently used in connection with public telephones, prepaid telephone cards, gasoline dispensing machines, or vending machines and are capable of developing control systems in direct competition with the Company; and ● businesses which provide access to the Internet and personal computers to hotel guests. Although these services are not credit card activated, such services would compete with the Company’s Business Express®. In addition, it is also possible that a company not currently engaged in any of the businesses described above could develop services and products that compete with our services and products. Competition may result in lower profit margins on our products or may reduce potential profits or result in a loss of some or all of our customer base. To the extent that our competitors are able to offer more attractive technology, our ability to compete could be adversely affected. The termination of any of our relationships with third parties upon whom we rely for supplies and services that are critical to our products could adversely affect our business and delay achievement of our business plan. We depend on arrangements with third parties for a variety of component parts used in our products. We have contracted with various suppliers to assist us to develop and manufacture our e-Port® products and with various suppliers to manufacture our Energy Miser® products. For other components, we do not have supply contracts with any of our third-party suppliers and we purchase components as needed from time to time. We have contracted with DBSi to host our network in a secure, 24/7 environment to ensure the reliability of our network services. We also have contracted with multiple land-based telecommunications providers to ensure the reliability of our land-based network. If these business relationships are terminated, the implementation of our business plan may be delayed until an alternative supplier or service provider can be retained. If we are unable to find another source or one that is comparable, the content and quality of our products could suffer and our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. 23 A disruption in the manufacturing capabilities of our third-party manufacturers, suppliers or distributors would negatively impact our ability to meet customer requirements. We depend upon third-party manufacturers, suppliers and distributors to deliver components free from defects, competitive in functionality and cost, and in compliance with our specifications and delivery schedules. Since we generally do not maintain large inventories of our products or components, any termination of, or significant disruption in, our manufacturing capability or our relationship with our third-party manufacturers or suppliers may prevent us from filling customer orders in a timely manner. We have occasionally experienced, and may in the future experience, delays in delivery of products and delivery of products of inferior quality from third-party manufacturers. Although alternate manufacturers and suppliers are generally available to produce our products and product components, the number of manufacturers or suppliers of some of our products and components is limited, and a qualified replacement manufacturer or supplier could take several months. In addition, our use of third-party manufacturers reduces our direct control over product quality, manufacturing timing, yields and costs. Disruption of the manufacture or supply of our products and components, or a third-party manufacturer’s or supplier’s failure to remain competitive in functionality, quality or price, could delay or interrupt our ability to manufacture or deliver our products to customers on a timely basis, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. Our reliance on our wireless telecommunication service provider exposes us to a number of risks over which we have no control, including risks with respect to increased prices and termination of essential services. The operation of our wirelessly networked devices depends upon the capacity, reliability and security of services provided to us by our wireless telecommunication services provider, AT&T Mobility. We have no control over the operation, quality or maintenance of these services or whether the vendor will improve its services or continue to provide services that are essential to our business. In addition, our wireless telecommunication services provider may increase its prices at which it provides services, which would increase our costs. If our wireless telecommunication services provider were to cease to provide essential services or to significantly increase its prices, we could be required to find alternative vendors for these services. With a limited number of vendors, we could experience significant delays in obtaining new or replacement services, which could lead to slowdowns or failures of our network. In addition, we may have to replace our existing e-Port® devices that are already installed in the marketplace. This could significantly harm our reputation and could cause us to lose customers and revenues. Our products may contain defects that may be difficult or even impossible to correct, which could result in lost sales, additional costs and customer erosion. We offer technically complex products which, when first introduced or released in new versions, may contain software or hardware defects that are difficult to detect and correct. The existence of defects and delays in correcting them could result in negative consequences, including the following: ● delays in shipping products; ● cancellation of orders; ● additional warranty expense; ● delays in the collection of receivables; ● product returns; ● the loss of market acceptance of our products; ● diversion of research and development resources from new product development; and ● inventory write-downs. 24 Even though we test all of our products, defects may continue to be identified after products are shipped. In past periods, we have experienced various issues in connection with product launches, including the need to rework certain products and stabilize product designs. Correcting defects can be a time-consuming and difficult task. Software errors may take several months to correct, and hardware errors may take even longer. We may accumulate excess or obsolete inventory that could result in unanticipated price reductions and write downs and adversely affect our financial results. Managing the proper inventory levels for components and finished products is challenging. In formulating our product offerings, we have focused our efforts on providing our customers products with greater capability and functionality, which requires us to develop and incorporate the most current technologies in our products. This approach tends to increase the risk of obsolescence for products and components we hold in inventory and may compound the difficulties posed by other factors that affect our inventory levels, including the following: ● the need to maintain significant inventory of components that are in limited supply; ● buying components in bulk for the best pricing; ● responding to the unpredictable demand for products; ● responding to customer requests for short lead-time delivery schedules; ● failure of customers to take delivery of ordered products; and ● product returns. If we accumulate excess or obsolete inventory, price reductions and inventory write-downs may result, which could adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. We may not be able to adapt to changing technology and our customers’ technology needs. We face rapidly changing technology and frequent new service offerings by competitors that can render existing services obsolete or unmarketable. Our future depends, in part, on our ability to enhance existing services and to develop, introduce and market, on a timely and cost effective basis, new services that keep pace with technological developments and customer requirements. Developing new products and technologies is a complex, uncertain process requiring innovation and accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. When changes to the product line are announced, we will be challenged to manage possible shortened life cycles for existing products, continue to sell existing products and prevent customers from returning existing products. Our inability to respond effectively to any of these challenges may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial success. We may be exposed to potential risks relating to our internal controls over financial reporting and our ability to have those controls attested to by our independent auditors. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal controls over financial reporting in their annual reports, including Form 10-K. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a company’s financial statements must also attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting as well as the operating effectiveness of the company’s internal controls. Beginning in our fiscal year ending June 30, 2010, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to, and report on, management’s assessment of internal controls. There can be no positive assurance that we will receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors. In the event we are unable to receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors with respect to our internal controls, investors and others may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, and our ability to obtain equity or debt financing could suffer. 25 Security is vital to our customers and therefore breaches in the security of transactions involving our products or services could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. Protection against fraud is of key importance to purchasers and end-users of our products. We incorporate security features, such as encryption software and secure hardware, into our products to protect against fraud in electronic payment transactions and to ensure the privacy and integrity of consumer data. Our products may be vulnerable to breaches in security due to defects in the security mechanisms, the operating system and applications or the hardware platform. Security vulnerabilities could jeopardize the security of information transmitted or stored using our products. In general, liability associated with security breaches of a certified electronic payment system belongs to the institution that acquires the financial transaction. In addition, we have not experienced any material security breaches affecting our business. However, if the security of the information in our products is compromised, our reputation and marketplace acceptance of our products will be adversely affected, which would adversely affect our results of operations, and subject us to potential liability. If our security applications are breached and sensitive data is lost or stolen, we could incur significant costs to not only assess and repair any damage to our systems, but also to reimburse customers for losses that occur from the fraudulent use of the data. We may also be subject to fines and penalties from the credit card associations in the event of the loss of confidential card information. Adverse publicity raising concerns about the safety or privacy of electronic transactions, or widely reported breaches of our or another provider’s security, have the potential to undermine consumer confidence in the technology and could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Our products and services may be vulnerable to security breach. Credit card issuers have promulgated credit card security guidelines as part of their ongoing efforts to battle identity theft and credit card fraud. We continue to work with credit card issuers to assure that our products and services comply with these rules. There can be no assurances, however, that our products and services are invulnerable to unauthorized access or hacking. When there is unauthorized access to credit card data that results in financial loss, there is the potential that parties could seek damages from us. If we fail to adhere to the standards of the Visa and MasterCard credit card associations, our registrations with these associations could be terminated and we could be required to stop providing payment processing services for Visa and MasterCard. A large portion of all of the transactions we process involve Visa or MasterCard. If we fail to comply with the applicable requirements of the Visa and MasterCard credit card associations, Visa or MasterCard could suspend or terminate our registration with them. The termination of our registration with them or any changes in the Visa or MasterCard rules that would impair our registration with them could require us to stop providing payment processing services. We rely on other card payment processors and service providers; if they fail or no longer agree to provide their services, our merchant relationships could be adversely affected and we could lose business. We rely on agreements with other large payment processing organizations, primarily Elavon, Inc., to enable us to provide card authorization, data capture, settlement and merchant accounting services and access to various reporting tools for the merchants we serve. Many of these organizations and service providers are our competitors and are subject to termination by them. The termination by our service providers of their arrangements with us or their failure to perform their services efficiently and effectively may adversely affect our relationships with the merchants whose accounts we serve and may cause those merchants to terminate their processing agreements with us. We are subject to laws and regulations that affect the products, services and markets in which we operate. Failure by us to comply with these laws or regulations would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We are, among other things, subject to banking regulations and credit card association regulations. Failure to comply with these regulations may result in the suspension or revocation of our business, the limitation, suspension or termination of service, and/or the imposition of fines that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Additionally, changes to legal rules and regulations, or interpretation or enforcement thereof, could have a negative financial effect on us or our product offerings. The payment processing industry may become subject to regulation as a result of recent data security breaches that have exposed consumer data to potential fraud. To the extent this occurs, we could be subject to additional technical, contractual or other requirements as a condition of our continuing to conduct our payment processing business. These requirements could cause us to incur additional costs, which could be significant, or to lose revenues to the extent we do not comply with these requirements. 26 Risks Related to Our Common Stock We do not expect to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future and therefore investors should not anticipate cash dividends on their investment. The holders of our common stock and series A convertible preferred stock are entitled to receive dividends when, and if, declared by our board of directors. Our board of directors does not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future, but instead intends to retain any and all earnings to finance the growth of the business. To date, we have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock or our series A convertible preferred stock and there can be no assurance that cash dividends will ever be paid on our common stock. In addition, our articles of incorporation prohibit the declaration of any dividends on our common stock unless and until all unpaid and accumulated dividends on the series A convertible preferred stock have been declared and paid. Through August 31, 2009, the unpaid and cumulative dividends on the series A convertible preferred stock are $10,731,310. The unpaid and cumulative dividends on the series A convertible preferred stock are convertible into shares of our common stock at the rate of $1,000 per share at the option of the shareholder. During the years ended June 30, 2009 and 2008 no Preferred Stock or cumulative preferred dividends was converted into shares of Common Stock. During the year ended June 30, 2007, certain holders converted 1,150 shares of the Preferred Stock into 11 shares of Common Stock. Certain of these shareholders also converted cumulative preferred dividends of $15,000, into 15 shares of Common Stock during the year ended June 30, 2007. We may issue additional shares of our common stock, which could depress the market price of our common stock and dilute your ownership. As of August 31, 2009, we had issued and outstanding options to purchase 160,000 shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase 10,608,087 shares of our common stock. The shares underlying none of these options, and 8,189,747 of these warrants have been registered and may be freely sold. Market sales of large amounts of our common stock, or the potential for those sales even if they do not actually occur, may have the effect of depressing the market price of our common stock. In addition, if our future financing needs require us to issue additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into common stock, the supply of common stock available for resale could be increased which could stimulate trading activity and cause the market price of our common stock to drop, even if our business is doing well. Furthermore, the issuance of any additional shares of our common stock, including those pursuant to the warrants subject to this offering, or securities convertible into our common stock could be substantially dilutive to holders of our common stock if they do not invest in future offerings. The limited prior public market and trading market may cause possible volatility in our stock price. The overall market for securities in recent years has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of many smaller companies. The trading price of our common stock is expected to be subject to significant fluctuations including, but not limited to, the following: ● quarterly variations in operating results and achievement of key business metrics; ● changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts, if any; ● any differences between reported results and securities analysts’ published or unpublished expectations; ● announcements of new contracts or service offerings by us or our competitors; ● market reaction to any acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic investments announced by us or our competitors; ● demand for our services and products; ● shares being sold pursuant to Rule 144 or upon exercise of warrants; and ● general economic or stock market conditions unrelated to our operating performance. These fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions, may have a material or adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. 27 The substantial market overhang of our shares will tend to depress the market price of our shares. The substantial number of our shares currently eligible for sale in the open market will tend to depress the market price of our shares. As of August 31, 2009, these shares consisted of the following: ● 22,709,408 shares of common stock ● 510,270 shares of series A convertible preferred stock ● 10,731 shares issuable upon conversion of the accrued and unpaid dividends on the series A convertible preferred stock ● 8,481,179 shares underlying common stock warrants ● 57,747 shares issuable under our 2008 Stock Incentive Plan. Director and officer liability is limited. As permitted by Pennsylvania law, our by-laws limit the liability of our directors for monetary damages for breach of a director’s fiduciary duty except for liability in certain instances. As a result of our by-law provisions and Pennsylvania law, shareholders may have limited rights to recover against directors for breach of fiduciary duty. In addition, our by-laws and indemnification agreements entered into by the Company with each of the officers and directors provide that we shall indemnify our directors and officers to the fullest extent permitted by law. Our publicly-filed reports are reviewed by the SEC from time to time and any significant changes required as a result of any such review may result in material liability to us, and have a material adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. The reports of publicly-traded companies are subject to review by the SEC from time to time for the purpose of assisting companies in complying with applicable disclosure requirements and to enhance the overall effectiveness of companies’ public filings, and comprehensive reviews of such reports are now required at least every three years under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. SEC reviews may be initiated at any time. While we believe that our previously filed SEC reports comply, and we intend that all future reports will comply in all material respects with the published SEC rules and regulations, we could be required to modify or reformulate information contained in prior filings as a result of an SEC review. Any modification or reformulation of information contained in such reports could be significant and result in material liability to us and have a material adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. 28 