D. Risk Factors. Investing in our ordinary shares involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before investing in our ordinary shares. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In that case, the value of our ordinary shares could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. - 2 - Risks Related to Our Business Unfavorable global economic conditions may adversely affect our customers, which directly impacts our business and results of operations. Our operations and performance depend on our customers, including those from the governmental sector, having adequate resources to purchase our products. The recent turmoil in the credit markets and the global economic downturn generally adversely impacted our customers and potential customers. Although global economic conditions have begun to stabilize or improve, the markets in which we operate remain weak. Customers have reduced and may continue to reduce their purchasing activities in response to lack of credit, economic uncertainty and concern about the stability of markets in general, and have reduced or delayed purchases of our products. As a result of slow moving inventory due to the recent global economic slowdown, we may be required in the future to record additional impairment charg es relating to the carrying value of our intangible assets, increase our reserves for doubtful accounts and further write-down our tax assets. In addition, the fair value of some of our assets may decrease further as a result of the weak economy and as a result, we may be required to record further impairment charges in the future. If global economic and market conditions or economic conditions in key markets remain weak or weaken further, our financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. Our revenues depend on government procurement procedures and practices. A substantial decrease in our customers’ budgets would adversely affect our results of operations. Our products are primarily sold to governmental agencies, governmental authorities and government-owned companies, many of which have complex and time consuming procurement procedures. A substantial period of time often elapses from the time we begin marketing a product until we actually sell that product to a particular customer. In addition, our sales to governmental agencies, authorities and companies are directly affected by these customers’ budgetary constraints and the priority given in their budgets to the procurement of our products. A decrease in governmental funding for our customers’ budgets would adversely affect our results of operations. This risk is heightened during periods of global economic slowdown. Accordingly, governmental purchases of our systems, products and services may decline in the future as the governmental purchasing agencies may terminate, reduce or modify contracts or subcontracts if: ● their requirements or budgetary constraints change; ● they cancel multi-year contracts and related orders if funds become unavailable; ● they shift spending priorities into other areas or for other products; or ● they adjust contract costs and fees on the basis of audits. Any such event may have a material adverse affect on us. The loss of one or more of our key customers would result in a loss of a significant amount of our revenues. A relatively few customers account for a large percentage of our revenues. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008, and 2009, revenues generated from sales to the Israeli Ministry of Defense, or MOD, and Israeli Defense Forces, or IDF, accounted for 15.0%, 10.8% and 19.6%, respectively, of our revenues. The MOD, IDF or any of our other major customers may not maintain their volume of business with us or, if such volume is reduced, other customers generating similar revenues may not replace the lost business. The loss of one our more of our key customers without replacement by a customer or customers of similar volume would have a material adverse effect on our financial results. - 3 - We depend on large orders from a relatively small number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues. As a result, our revenues and operating results may vary from quarter to quarter. We receive large orders from a relatively small number of customers and our revenues and operating results are subject to substantial periodic variations. Individual orders from customers can represent a substantial portion of our revenues in any one period and significant orders by a customer during one period may not be followed by further orders from the same customer in subsequent periods. As a result, our revenues and operating results for a specific quarter may not be indicative of our future performance and quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful, making it difficult for investors to evaluate our future prospects based on the results of any quarter. In addition, we have a limited order backlog, which makes revenues in any quarter substantially dependent upon o rders we deliver in that quarter. We may be adversely affected by our long sales cycles. We have in the past and expect in the future to experience long time periods between initial sales contacts and the execution of formal contracts for our products and completion of product installations. The cycle from first contact to revenue generation in our business involves, among other things, selling the concept of our technology and products, developing and implementing a pilot program to demonstrate the capabilities and accuracy of our products, negotiating prices and other contract terms, and, finally, installing and implementing our products on a full-scale basis. This cycle entails a substantial period of time, sometimes as much as one or more years, and the lack of revenues during this cycle and the expenses involved in bringing new sales to the point of revenue generation may put a substantial strain on our resources. Our failure to retain and attract personnel could harm our business, operations and product development efforts. Our products require sophisticated research and development, marketing and sales and technical customer support. Our success depends on our ability to attract, train and retain qualified research and development, marketing and sales and technical customer support personnel. Competition for personnel in all of these areas is intense and we may not be able to hire sufficient personnel to achieve our goals or support the anticipated growth in our business. If we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business, operations and product development efforts would suffer. Our financial results may be adversely affected by currency fluctuations. We sell most of our products in North America, Europe and Israel. Our revenues are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars, Euros and NIS, while a portion of our expenses, primarily labor expenses, is incurred in NIS and Canadian Dollars. Additionally, certain assets, especially trade receivables, as well as part of our liabilities are denominated in NIS. As a result, fluctuations in rates of exchange between the U.S. dollar and non- U.S. dollar currencies may affect our operating results and financial condition. The dollar cost of our operations in Israel may be adversely affected by the appreciation of the NIS against the U.S. dollar. In addition, the value of our non-U.S. dollar revenues could be adversely affected by the depreciation of the U.S. dollar against such currencies. 0; In 2007, 2008 and 2009, the NIS appreciated by approximately 9.0%, 1.1% and 0.7%, respectively, against the U.S. dollar, which had an adverse affect on our results of operations. In 2008, the Euro depreciated against the U.S. dollar by 5.3%, while in 2007 and 2009 the Euro appreciated against the U.S. dollar by 11.7% and 3.5%, respectively. In addition, the U.S. dollar cost of our operations in Canada is influenced by the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar. In 2008, the Canadian dollar depreciated against the U.S. dollar by approximately 19.7%, while in 2007 and 2009 the Canadian dollar appreciated against the U.S. dollar by 18.4% and 16.6%, respectively. During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009, foreign currency fluctuations had an adverse impact on our results of operations and we recorded foreign exchange losses, net of $792,000, $246,000 and $1,138.000, respectively. Our results of operations may continue to be materially adversely affected by currency fluctuations in the future. - 4 - If we do not receive Israeli MOD approvals necessary for us to export the products we produce in Israel, our revenues may decrease. Israel’s defense export policy regulates the sale of a number of our systems and products. Current Israeli policy encourages export to approved customers of defense systems and products, such as ours, as long as the export is consistent with Israeli government policy. A license is required to initiate marketing activities. We are also required to obtain a specific export license for any hardware exported from Israel. We may not be able to receive all the required permits and licenses for which we may apply in the future. If we do not receive the required permits for which we apply, our revenues may decrease. We are subject to laws regulating export of “dual use” items (items that are typically sold in the commercial market, but that also may be used in the defense market) and defense export control legislation. Additionally, our participation in governmental procurement processes in Israel and other countries is subject to specific regulations governing the conduct of the process of procuring defense contracts. Furthermore, solicitations for procurements by governmental purchasing agencies in Israel and other countries are governed by laws, regulations and procedures relating to procurement integrity, including avoiding conflicts of interest and corruption in the procurement process. We may not be able to respond quickly and effectively to changing laws and regulations and any failure to comply w ith such laws and regulations may subject us to significant liability and penalties. We face risks associated with doing business in international markets. A large portion of our sales is to markets outside of Israel. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009, approximately 75.0%, 78.8% and 76.2%, respectively, of our revenues were derived from sales to markets outside of Israel. A key component of our strategy is to continue to expand in such international markets. Our international sales efforts are affected by costs associated with the shipping of our products and risks inherent in doing business in international markets, including: ● different and changing regulatory requirements in the jurisdictions in which we currently operate or may operate in the future; ● fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; ● export restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers; ● difficulties in staffing, managing and supporting foreign operations; ● longer payment cycles; ● difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; ● political and economic changes, hostilities and other disruptions in regions where we currently sell or products or may sell our products in the future; and ● seasonal reductions in business activities. Negative developments in any of these areas in one or more countries could result in a reduction in demand for our products, the cancellation or delay of orders already placed, difficulty in collecting receivables, and a higher cost of doing business, any of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. - 5 - Reduction in Israeli government spending or changes in priorities for homeland security products may adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and prospects. Historically a significant portion of our revenues were from sales to the Israeli government and our financial condition, operating results and prospects would be adversely affected by Israeli government budget cutbacks or spending reductions. We believe that the success and growth of our business will continue to depend to a certain extent upon our successful procurement of Israeli government contracts. The award of additional contracts from the Israeli government could be adversely affected by spending reductions or budget cutbacks at government agencies that currently use or are likely to use our products. The Israeli government may reduce its expenditures for homeland security or change its defense priorities in the coming years. Our programs may be affected in the future if there is a red uction in Israeli government defense spending for our programs or a change in priorities to products other than ours. Accordingly, changes in government contracting policies, budgetary constraints and delays or changes in the appropriations process could have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to implement our growth strategy and may not be able to successfully integrate the operations of acquired businesses into our business. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to acquire or invest in complementary (including competitive) businesses, products and technologies. We may not be able to consummate any acquisition or investment in the future. In addition, the process of integrating acquired assets into our operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and may absorb significant management attention that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development of our business. We may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition. Moreover, future acquisitions by us could result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and amortization expenses related to identifiable intangible assets, any of which could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial position. Acquisitions also involve other risks, including risks inherent in entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience. Our failure to successfully integrate the operations of an acquired business or to retain key employees of acquired businesses and integrate and manage our growth may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation or prospects. We may not be able to protect our proprietary technology and unauthorized use of our proprietary technology by third parties may impair our ability to compete effectively. Our success and ability to compete depend in large part upon protecting our proprietary technology. We have approximately 15 patents and have patent applications pending. We also rely on a combination of trade secret and copyright law and confidentiality, non-disclosure and assignment-of-inventions agreements to protect our proprietary technology. It is our policy to protect our proprietary rights in our products and operations through contractual obligations, including confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with certain employees, distributors and agents, suppliers and subcontractors. These measures may not be adequate to protect our technology from third-party infringement, and our competitors may independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours . Additionally, our products may be sold in foreign countries that provide less protection to intellectual property than that provided under U.S. or Israeli laws. Claims that our products infringe upon the intellectual property of third parties may require us to incur significant costs, enter into licensing agreements or license substitute technology. Third parties may in the future assert infringement claims against us or claims asserting that we have violated a patent or infringed upon a copyright, trademark or other proprietary right belonging to them. Any infringement claim, even one without merit, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources to defend against the claim. In addition, we purchase components for our turnkey products from independent suppliers. Certain of these components contain proprietary intellectual property of these independent suppliers. Third parties may in the future assert claims against our suppliers that such suppliers have violated a patent or infringed upon a copyright, trademark or other proprietary right belonging to them. If such infringement by our suppliers or us were found to exist, a party could seek an injunction preventing the use of their intellectual property. Moreover, a successful claim of product infringement against us or a settlement could require us to pay substantial amounts or obtain a license to continue to use such technology or intellectual property. Infringement claims asserted against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. - 6 - Undetected defects in our products may increase our costs and impair the market acceptance of our products. The development, enhancement and implementation of our complex systems entail substantial risks of product defects or failures. Despite testing by us and our customers, errors may be found in existing or new products, resulting in delay or loss of revenues, warranty expense, loss of market share or failure to achieve market acceptance. Moreover, the complexities involved in implementing our systems entail additional risks of performance failures. We may encounter substantial delays or other difficulties due to such complexities. Any such occurrence could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the potential harm to our reputation that may result from product defects or implementation errors could be damaging to us . The market for our products is characterized by changing technology, requirements, standards and products, and we may be adversely affected if we do not respond promptly and effectively to these changes. The market for our products is characterized by evolving technologies, changing industry standards, changing regulatory environments, frequent new product introductions and rapid changes in customer requirements. The introduction of products embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and practices can render existing products obsolete and unmarketable. Our future success will depend on our ability to enhance our existing products and to develop and introduce, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new products and product features that keep pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards and address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers. In the future: ● we may not be successful in developing and marketing new products or product features that respond to technological change or evolving industry standards; ● we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these new products and features; or ● our new products and product features may not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. If we are unable to respond promptly and effectively to changing technology, we will be unable to compete effectively in the future. If subcontractors and suppliers terminate our arrangement with them, or amend them in a manner detrimental to us, we may experience delays in production and implementation of our products and our business may be adversely affected. We acquire most of the components utilized in our products, including our turnkey solutions, from a limited number of suppliers. We may not be able to obtain such items from these suppliers in the future or we may not be able to obtain them on satisfactory terms. Temporary disruptions of our manufacturing operations would result if we were required to obtain materials from alternative sources, which may have an adverse effect on our financial results. In addition, the installation of our fence mounted vibration detection systems in Israel is outsourced primarily to two subcontractors. If either or both of such subcontractors were to be unable or unwilling to continue to perform such services, we would have to identify and qualify one or more substitute subcontractors to perform such services.& #160; This could cause delays in the implementation of our fence mounted vibration detection systems in Israel, the costs associated with installing such systems may increase and our business may be adversely affected. - 7 - We currently benefit from government programs and tax benefits that may be discontinued or reduced in the future, which would increase our future tax expenses. We currently benefit from grants and tax benefits under Israeli government programs, which require us to meet specified conditions, including, but not limited to, making specified investments from our equity in fixed assets and paying royalties with respect to grants received. In addition, some of these programs restrict our ability to manufacture particular products or transfer particular technology outside of Israel. If we fail to comply with these conditions in the future, the benefits we receive could be cancelled and we could be required to refund any payments previously received under these programs, including any accrued interest, or pay increased taxes or royalties. Such a result would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The Israeli government has reduce d the benefits available under these programs in recent years and these programs and benefits may be discontinued or curtailed in the future. If the Israeli government ends these programs and benefits, our business, financial condition, results of operations and net income could be materially adversely affected. We may fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting , which could result in material misstatements in our financial statements. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes certain duties on us and our executives and directors. Our efforts to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 governing internal controls and procedures for financial reporting, which started in connection with our Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2006, have resulted in increased general and administrative expense and a diversion of management time and attention, and we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires (i) management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and (ii) an attestation report by our independent registered public accounting firm on the effectiveness of our in ternal control over financial reporting, in connection with the filing of the Annual Report on Form 20-F for each fiscal year. In 2008, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting with respect to a former subsidiary that was subsequently sold during 2009. We may identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of our management’s evaluations and annual auditor reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities and could have a material a dverse effect on our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information and the market price of our ordinary shares. Risks Relating to Our Ordinary Shares Volatility of the market price of our ordinary shares could adversely affect our shareholders and us. The market price of our ordinary shares has been, and is likely to be, highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, including the following: ● actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results or those of our competitors; ● announcements by us or our competitors of technological innovations or new and enhanced products; ● developments or disputes concerning proprietary rights; ● introduction and adoption of new industry standards; ● changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; - 8 - ● market conditions or trends in our industry; ● changes in the market valuations of our competitors; ● announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions; ● entry into strategic partnerships or joint ventures by us or our competitors; ● additions or departures of key personnel; ● political and economic conditions, such as a recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations or political events; and ● other events or factors in any of the countries in which we do business, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism, natural disasters or responses to such events. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for Israeli companies and home defense companies in particular, has been highly volatile. Many of these factors are beyond our control and may materially adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our performance. In the past, following periods of market volatility, shareholders have often instituted securities class action litigation relating to the stock trading and price volatility of the company in question. If we were involved in any securities litigation, it could result in substantial cost to us to defend and divert resources and the attention of management from our business. We do not expect to distribute dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain our current and any future earnings to finance operations and expand our business and, therefore, do not expect to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. According to the Israeli Companies Law, a company may distribute dividends out of its profits (as defined by the Israeli Companies Law), provided that there is no reasonable concern that such dividend distribution will prevent the company from paying all its current and foreseeable obligations, as they become due, or otherwise upon the permission of the court. In the event cash dividends are declared, such dividends will be paid in NIS. The declaration of dividends is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and would depend on various factors, including our operating results, financial condition, future pr ospects and any other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. You should not rely on an investment in our company if you require dividend income from your investment. Risks Relating to Our Location in Israel Political, economic and military instability in Israel may disrupt our operations and negatively affect our business condition, harm our results of operations and adversely affect our share price. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel, and our principal executive offices and some of our manufacturing and research and development facilities are located in Israel. As a result, political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel directly influence us. Any major hostilities involving Israel, a full or partial mobilization of the reserve forces of the Israeli army, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, Israel and its Arab neighbors have engaged in a number of armed conflicts. A state of hostility, varying from time to time in intensity and degree, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Major hostilities between Israel and its neighbors may hinder Israel’s international trade and lead to economic downturn. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and business. Since September 2000, there has been an increase in unrest and terrorist activity in Israel of varying levels of severity. In recent years, there has been an escalation in violence among Israel, Hamas, Hezbollah, the Palestinian Authority and other groups. Since June 2007, when Hamas effectively took control of the Gaza Strip, there have been extensive hostilities along Israel’s border with the Gaza Strip. Hamas has launched hundreds of missiles from the Gaza Strip against Israeli population centers, which led to an armed conflict between Israel and Hamas during December 2008 and January 2009. Ongoing violence between Israel and the Palestinians as well as tension between Israel and neighboring Syria and Lebanon or Iran may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. - 9 - Furthermore, we could be adversely affected by the interruption or reduction of trade between Israel and its trading partners. Some countries, companies and organizations continue to participate in a boycott of Israeli companies and others doing business with Israel or with Israeli companies. As a result, we are precluded from marketing our products to these countries, companies and organizations. Foreign government defense export policies towards Israel could also make it more difficult for us to obtain the export authorizations necessary for our activities. Also, over the past several years there have been calls in Europe and elsewhere to reduce trade with Israel. Restrictive laws, polici es or practices directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses may have an adverse impact on our operations, our financial results or the expansion of our business. Our results of operations may be negatively affected by the obligation of our personnel to perform reserve military service. Many of our employees and some of our directors and officers in Israel are obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israeli Defense Forces and may be called for active duty under emergency circumstances at any time. If a military conflict or war arises, these individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or key employees or a significant number of other employees due to military service. Any disruption in our operations could adversely affect our business. Your rights and responsibilities as a shareholder will be governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. We are incorporated under Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of holders of our ordinary shares are governed by our memorandum of association and articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith in exercising his or her rights and fulfilling his or her obligations toward the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. Israeli law provides that these duties are applicable in shareholder votes on, among other things, amendments to a company's articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers and interested party transactions requiring shareholder approval. In addition, a controlling shareholder of an Israeli company or a shareholder who knows that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholder vote or who has the power to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or executive officer in the company has a duty of fairness toward the company. However, Israeli law does not define the substance of this duty of fairness. Because Israeli corporate law has undergone extensive revision in recent years, there is little case law available to assist in understanding the implications of these provisions that govern shareholder behavior. Service and enforcement of legal process on us and our directors and officers may be difficult to obtain. Service of process upon our directors and officers and the Israeli experts named herein, all of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, since substantially all of our assets, all of our directors and officers and the Israeli experts named in this annual report are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or these individuals or entities may not be collectible within the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under the Securities Act and the Securities Exchange Act in original actions instituted in Israel. However, subject to certain time limitations and other conditions, Israeli courts may enforce final judgments of United States courts for liquidated amounts in civil matters, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of those and similar acts. - 10 - As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, we may follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements. We follow Israeli law and practice instead of NASDAQ rules regarding the director nomination process, compensation of executive officers and the requirement that our independent directors have regularly scheduled meetings at which only independent directors are present. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of The NASDAQ Listing Rules. We follow Israeli law and practice instead of NASDAQ rules regarding the director nomination process, compensation of executive officers and the requirement that our independent directors have regularly scheduled meetings at which only independent directors are present. As a foreign private issuer listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, we may also follow home country practice with regard to, among other things, the composition of the board of directors and quorum at shareholders’ meetings. In addition, we may follow home country practice instead of the NASDAQ requirement to obtain sha reholder approval for certain dilutive events (such as for the establishment or amendment of certain equity-based compensation plans, an issuance that will result in a change of control of the company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in the company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company). A foreign private issuer that elects to follow a home country practice instead of NASDAQ requirements must submit to NASDAQ in advance a written statement from an independent counsel in such issuer’s home country certifying that the issuer’s practices are not prohibited by the home country’s laws. In addition, a foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission each such requirement that it does not follow and describe the home country practice followed by the issuer instead of any such requirement. Accordingly, our sharehold ers may not be afforded the same protection as provided under NASDAQ’s corporate governance rules. 