ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves risks. Prospective investors in our common stock should carefully consider, among other things, the following risk factors in connecti on with the other information and financial statements contained in this Annual Report, including “PART II – Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” prior to making an investment decision. We have identified the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward looking statements we may make from time to time. We operate in a continually changing business environment in which new risk factors emerge from time to time. We can neither predict these new risk factors, nor can we assess the impact, if any, of these new risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward looking statement. If any of these risks, or combination of risks, actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously and materia lly harmed, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. We are largely dependent upon one customer and most of our customers are based in Oklahoma. For 2010 and 2009, approximately 57% and 62%, respectively, of our total revenues were from Native American tribes located in Oklahoma, and approximately 44% and 42%, respectively, of our total revenues were from one tribe in that state. The significant concentration of our customers in Oklahoma means that local economic, regulatory and licensing changes may adversely affect our customers, and therefore our development and placement fee agreements and our business, disproportionately to changes in national economic conditions, including adverse economic declines or slower economic recovery from prior declines. While we continue to seek to diversify the markets in which we operate, the loss of any of our Oklahoma tribes as customers, including our largest customer, or a material decrease in our revenue share with our largest customer, would have a material and adverse effect upon our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the legislation allowing tribal-state compacts in Oklahoma has resulted in increased competition from other vendors, who we believe pr eviously avoided entry into the Oklahoma market due to its uncertain and ambiguous legal environment. The State of Oklahoma permits other types of gaming, both at Native American tribal gaming facilities and at Oklahoma racetracks, and many of our competitors may seek entry into this market. The loss of significant market share to these new gaming opportunities or the increased presence of our competitors’ products in Oklahoma could also have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition and results of operations. We believe that the introduction of our competitor’s more aggressive Class II machines, with characteristics of traditional slot machines, into the Oklahoma Class II market has adversely affected our operating results and market position in that state and may continue to do so in the future. One of our exclusive distribution agreements with a third party manufacturer has expired and another is expiring which may impact product performance and overall revenue. Our exclusive right, granted to us by WMS Industries, Inc., or WMS, to be the third party provider of WMS products to the Chickasaw Nation expired on June 30, 2010. We plan to continue purchasing equipment in order to maintain our footprint of WMS product while concurrently continuing our strategy of transitioning away from a reliance on third party products. Additionally we have the right to distribute products from Aristocrat Technologies, Inc., or Aristocrat, per an agreement with Aristocrat which is set to expire o n December 15, 2010. Though we do not presently expect a loss of exclusivity to significantly affect the product portfolio we offer our customers, the loss of exclusivity increases the likelihood that these manufacturers could place product directly or through other distributors on our customers’ floor. Our loss of exclusivity could have the effect of diluting our win per unit, thus negatively impacting our revenue. As of September 30, 2010, we had 2,363 WMS Class III units in operation at the Chickasaw's properties, and 3,449 units in the aggregate at all our properties, which, in the aggregate, accounts for approximately 24.6% of our total revenue for 2010. In addition we had approximately 1,642 Aristocrat units in operation in the aggregate, which accounts for approximately 8.8% of our total revenue for 2010. Our charitable bingo operations in Alabama are subject to legal uncertainty. The legality of charitable bingo gaming in Alabama is under challenge by the State’s Governor. Legislation to put the legality question to a public referendum in Alabama failed to pass the legislative session. Many charitable bingo properties voluntarily ceased operations pending resolution of the matter as enforcement actions against operators continues to be a threat. Given the legal uncertainty of charity bingo operations in the State of Alabama, all of the charitable bingo facilities where we have historically placed units have been voluntarily closed by our Alabama customers, and if these facilities continue to remain closed, additional write-down of assets currently ded icated to the Alabama market may need to be taken and may adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. As of September 30, 2010, we had no units in operation at charity bingo facilities in 10 Alabama compared to the 2,318 units we had installed and in operation as of September 30, 2009. Furthermore, we were recently named in four lawsuits in Alabama, one mass action (Ethel Adell, et al., v. Macon County Greyhound Park, Inc., et al.) and three purported class action (Walter Bussey, et. al., v. Macon County Greyhound Park, Inc., et al.; Ozetta Hardy v. Whitehall Gaming Center, LLC, et al.; Ozetta Hardy v. IGT, et al.), pending in federal court in Alabama. The lawsuits were filed on behalf of patrons of VictoryLand in Shorter, Alabama, White Hall Gaming Center in White Hall, Alabama, and Poarch Band of Creek Indian facilities throughout the state, and include claims related to the alleged illegality of electronic bingo in Alabama. There may be other cases pending or threatened involving electronic bingo that might have an impact upon our operations in Alabama, and it is possible that further proceedings will be initiated in the future, which could have a material affect on our business and results of operations. We may not collect all amounts recorded for value added taxes related to our operations in Mexico. Our Mexican operations are subject to Value Added Tax, or VAT, which has been applied to product shipme nts originating outside of Mexico. We have an outstanding VAT receivable from the Mexican taxing authority primarily related to VAT levied on product shipments for 2006 and 2007. At September 30, 2010 and 2009, the Company’s VAT receivable was $4.6 million and $7.5 million, respectively. The Company has received rulings from the Mexican taxing authority for each of the aforementioned years indicating that such Mexican taxing authority has challenged the registration of certain of the Company’s transactions that have generated approximately $600,000 in VAT receivable. The Company has formally contested these rulings, and the Company believes that it has the necessary d ocumentation to support the portion that has been challenged. However, the final resolution of the contested balances remains uncertain and may adversely affect the carrying value of the receivable and may have an adverse affect on our foreign income tax expense. We may not realize satisfactory returns on money lent to new and existing customers to develop or expand gaming facilities. We enter into development and placement fee agreements to provide financing for construction, expansion, or remodeling of gaming facilities, primarily in the State of Oklahoma, but also have such agreements in place in other jurisdictions, such as Alabama. Under our development and placement fee agreements, we secure a long-term revenue share percentage and a fixed number of player terminal placements in the facility, in exchange for funding the development and construction of the gaming facility. We may not, however, realize the anticipated benefits of any of these strategic relationships or financings as our success in these ventures is dependent upon the timely completion of the gaming facility, the placement of our player terminals, and a favorable regulatory environment. For example, in 2010, we took a material impairment charge for a note receivable for money lent in connection with a development agreement for an Alabama facility because of the continued legal uncertainty of electronic bingo in that state, and could be required, under generally accepted accounting principles, to take similar im pairment charges on development and placement fee agreements in the future. Our development and placement efforts and financing activities may result in unforeseen operating difficulties, financial risks, or required expenditures that could adversely affect our liquidity. In connection with one or more of these transactions, and to obtain the necessary development and placement fee funds, we may need to extend secured and unsecured credit to potential or existing customers that may not be repaid, incur debt on terms unfavorable to us or that we are unable to repay, or incur other contingent liabilities. The failure to maintain controls and processes related to billing and collecting accounts receivable or the deterioration of the financial condition of our customers could negatively impact our business. As a result of our development agreements, the collection of accounts receivable has become a matter of greater significance. While we believe the increased level of these specific receivables has allowed us to grow our business, it has also required direct, additional focus of and involvement by management. Further, and especially due to the current downturn in the economy, some of our customers may not pay accounts receivable when due. Our success in the gaming indust ry depends in large part on our ability to expand into new and non-Native American markets. Our expansion into non-Native American gaming activities will present new challenges and risks that could adversely affect our business and results of operations. As we expand into new markets, we expect to encounter business, legal, operational and regulatory uncertainties similar to those we face in our Native American gaming business. As a result, we may encounter legal and regulatory challenges that are difficult or impossible to foresee and which could result in an unforeseen adverse impact on planned revenues or costs associated with the new market opportunity. If we are unable to effectively develop and operate within these new markets, then our business, operating result s and financial condition would be impaired. 11 New market entry may require us to make changes to our gaming systems to ensure that they comply with applicable regulatory requirements, and may require us to obtain additional licenses. In certain jurisdictions and for certain venues, our ability to enter these markets will depend on effecting changes to existing laws and regulatory regimes. The ability to effect these changes is subject to a great degree of uncertainty and may never be achieved. We may not be successful in entering into other segments of the gaming industry. Generally, our placement of systems, games and technology into new market segments involves a number of business uncertainties, including: • whether the technical platform on which our gaming units, systems, and products are based will comply or can be modified to comply with the minimum technical requirements for the each of the identified new gaming markets; • Whether we are able to successfully pass required field trials and comply with the initial game / system installation requirements for each new jurisdiction; • whether our resources and expertise will enable us to effectively operate and grow in such new markets; • whether our internal processes and controls will continue to function effectively within these new segments; • whether we have enough experience to accurately predict revenues and expenses in these new markets; • whether the diversion of management attention and resources from our traditional business, cause d by entering into new market segments, will have harmful effects on our traditional business; • whether we will be able to successfully compete against larger companies who dominate the markets that we are trying to enter; and < /font>• whether we can timely perform under our agreements in these new markets because of other unforeseen obstacles. If we are unable to keep pace with rapid innovations in new technologies or product design and deployment, or if we are unable to quickly adapt our development and manufacturing processes to compete, our business and results of operation could be negatively impacted. Our success is dependent on our ability to develop and sell new products and systems that are attractive not only to our customers, but also to their customers, the end players. If our gaming devices do not appeal to customers, or if our gaming devices do not meet or sustain revenue and profitability of contractual obligations and expectations, our gaming devices may be replaced by our competitor's devices. Additionally, we may be unable to enhance existing products in a timely manner in response to changing regulatory, legal or market conditions or customer requirements, or new products or new versions of our existing products may not achieve market acceptance in new or existing markets. Therefore, our future success depends upon our ability to design and market technologically sophisticated products that meet our customer's needs regarding, among other things, ease of use and adaptability, but also that are unique and entertaining such that they achieve high levels of player appeal and sustainability. If we fail to keep pace with our competitors, our business could be adversely affected and a decrease in demand for our games could also result in an increase in our inventory obsolescence charges. The demands of our customers and the preferences of the end players are continuously changing. As a result, there is constant pressure to develop and market new game content and technologically innovative products. As our r evenues are heavily dependent on the earning power and life span of our games and because newer game themes tend to have a shorter life span than more traditional game themes, we face increased pressure to design and deploy new and successful game themes to maintain our revenue stream and remain competitive. Our ability to develop new and innovative products could be adversely affected by: • the failure of our new gaming products to b ecome popular with end players; • a decision by our customers or the gaming industry in general to decline to purchases our new gaming devices or to cancel or return previous orders, content or systems in anticipation of newer technologies; • an inability to roll out new games, services or systems on schedule as a result of delays in regulatory product approval in the applicable jurisdictions, or otherwise; and • an increase in the popularity of competitors' games.12 Our newer products are generally more technologically sophisticated and are of a diffe rent form than those we have produced in the past and we must continually refine our production capabilities to meet the needs of our product innovation. If we cannot adapt our manufacturing infrastructure to meet the needs of our product innovations, or if we are unable to make upgrades to our production capacity in a timely manner, our business could be negatively impacted. The gaming industry is intensely competitive. We may not be able to successfully compete in new and existing markets due to research and development, intellectual property and regulatory challenges, and if we are unable to compete effectively, our business could be negatively impacted. We operate in an intensely competitive industry against larger companies with significant financial, research design and development, and marketing resources. These larger companies, most of whom have greater resources, are aggressively competing against us in our core business operations, including but not limited to, charity bingo, lottery, Class II, Class III, commercial slot and international bingo/gaming markets. Additionally, new smaller competitors compete against us in our traditional markets, and these smaller competitors often do not face the same regulatory and/or compliance restraints that we have. The increased competition will intensify pressure on our pricing model. We expect to face increased competition as we attempt to enter new markets and new geographical locations. There are a number of established, well-financed companies producing gaming devices, game content and systems that compete with our products. Certain of these competitors may have access to greater capital resources than we do, and as a result, may be better positioned to compete in the marketplace. The market is crowded, with International Game Technology, WMS Industries, Inc., Bally Technologies, Inc., Aristocrat Technologies, Inc. and Konami Co. Ltd. comprising the primary competition. Pricing, accuracy, reliability, product features and functions are among the factors affecting a provider's success in selling its system. Competition in the gaming industry is intense due to the number of providers, as well as the limited number of facilities and jurisdictions in which they operate. As a result of consolidation among the gaming facilities and the recent cutbacks in spending by facility operators due to the downturn in the economy, the level of competition among providers has increased significantly as the number of potential customers has decreased. Other members of our industry may independently develop games similar to our games, and competitors may introduce noncompliant games that unfairly compete in certain markets due to uneven regulatory enforcement policies/actions. Additionally, our customers compete with other provi ders of entertainment for their end user’s entertainment budget. Consequently, our customers might not be able to spend new capital on acquiring gaming equipment. Moreover, our customers might reduce their utilization of revenue share agreements. Slow growth in the establishment of new gaming jurisdictions or the number of new casinos and declines in the rate of replacement for existing gaming machines could limit or reduce our future profits. While we continue to seek entry into already est ablished gaming jurisdictions, demand for our products is also driven by the establishment of new gaming jurisdictions, the addition of new casinos or expansion of existing casinos within existing gaming jurisdictions and the replacement of existing gaming machines. The establishment or expansion of gaming in any jurisdiction typically requires a public referendum or other legislative action. As a result, gaming continues to be the subject of public debate, and there are numerous active organizations that oppose gaming. Opposition to gaming, such as that which we are currently experiencing in Alabama, could result in restrictions on or even prohibitions of gaming operations or the expansion of operations in any jurisdiction. In addition, the construction of new casinos or expansion of existing casinos fluctuates with demand, general economic conditions and the availability of financing. The rate of gaming growth in North America has diminished and machine replacements are at historically low levels. Slow gro wth in the establishment of new gaming jurisdictions, public protest, political opposition, delays in the opening of new or expanded casinos and continued declines in or low levels of demand for machine replacements could reduce the demand for our products and our future profits. Our business operations and product offerings are subject to strict regulatory licenses, findings of suitability, registrations, permits and/or approvals. Our ability to conduct our existing traditional business, expand operati ons, develop and distribute new products, games and systems, and expand into new gaming markets is subject to significant federal, state, local, Native American, and foreign regulations. Specifically, our company, our officers, directors, key employees, major shareholders, as well as our business partners and certain suppliers, products, games and systems are subject to licenses, findings of suitability, registrations, permits or approvals necessary for the operation of our gaming activities. 13 We have received licenses, findings of suitability, registrations, permits or approvals from a number of state, local, Native American, and foreign gaming regulatory authorities. Our Native American tribal customers are empowered to develop their own licensing procedures and requirements, and we currently have limited, if any, information regarding the ultimate process or expenses involved with securing or maintaining licensure by the Native American tribes. Moreover, Native American tribal policies and procedures, as well as tribal selection of gaming vendors, are subject to the political and governance environment within the Native American tribe. We require new licenses, permits and approvals, including third-party certifications that our games comply with a particular jurisdiction's stated regulations, in order to meet our expectations under our product rollout plan, and such licenses, permits or approvals may not be timely granted to us, or granted to us at all, which could have a material effect on our business in general and product rollout plan specifically. Obtaining and maintaining all required licenses, findings of suitability, registrations, permits or approvals is time consuming and expensive. The suspension, revocation, nonrenewal or limitation of any of our licenses would have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to effectively compete in Native American gaming markets is vu lnerable to legal and regulatory uncertainties, including the ability to enforce contractual rights on Native American land. Historically, we have derived a majority of our revenue from the placement of Class II player terminals and systems for gaming activities conducted on Native American lands. Because federally recognized Native American tribes are independent governments with sovereign powers, Native American tribes can enact their own laws and regulate gaming operations and contracts. Native American tribes maintain their own governmental systems and often their own judicial systems and have the right to tax persons and enterprises conducting business on Native American lands, and also have the right to require licenses and to impose other forms o f regulation and regulatory fees on persons and businesses operating on their lands. In the absence of a specific grant of authority by Congress, states may regulate activities taking place on Native American lands only if the Native American tribe has a specific agreement or compact with the state. Our contracts with Native American tribal customers normally provide that only certain provisions will be subject to the governing law of the state in which a Native American tribe is located. However, these choice-of-law clauses may not be enforceable. Further, Native American tribes generally enjoy sovereign immunity from lawsuits similar to that of the individual states and the United States. Before we can sue or enforce contract rights with a Native Ame rican tribe, or an agency or instrumentality of a Native American tribe, the Native American tribe must effectively waive its sovereign immunity with respect to the matter in dispute, which we are not always able to obtain. For example, our largest customer, who accounts for over 44% of our revenue as of September 30, 2010, has not given us a limited waiver of sovereign immunity. Without a limited waiver of sovereign immunity, or if such waiver is held to be ineffective, we could be precluded from judicially enforcing any rights or remedies against a Native American tribe, including the right to enter Native American lands to retrieve our property in the event of a breach of contract by the tribe party to that contract. Even if the waiver of sovereign immunity by a Native American tribe is deemed effective, there will be an issue as to the forum in which a lawsuit can be brought against the Native American tribe. Federal courts are courts of limited jurisdiction and generally do not have jurisdiction to hear civil cases relating to Native American tribes and we may be unable to enforce any arbitration decision effectively. Our agreements with Native American tribes are subject to review by regulatory authorities. For example, our development agreements are subject to review by the NIGC and any such review could require substantial modifications to our agreements or result in the determination that we have a propri etary interest in a Native American tribe’s gaming activity which could materially and adversely affect the terms on which we conduct our business. The NIGC has previously expressed its view that some of our development agreements could be in violation of the requirements of the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act of 1988 and Native American tribal gaming regulations, which state that the Native American tribes must hold “sole proprietary interest” in the Native American tribes’ gaming operations, which presents additional risk for our business. The NIGC may also reinterpret applicable laws and regulations, which could affect our agreements with Native American tribes. We could be affected by alternative interpretations of the Gambling Devices Act, 15 U.S.C. § 1171, et. seq., or the Johnson Act, as the customers of our Class II games, the Native American tribes, could be subject to significant fines and penalties if it is ultimately determined they are offering an illegal game, and an adverse regulatory or judicial determination regarding the legal status of our products could have material adverse consequences for our business, operating results and prospects. Government enforcement, regulatory action, judicial decisions, and proposed legislative action have in the past, and will likely continue to affect our business, operating results a nd prospects in Native American tribal lands. We believe that a number of our competitors have not complied with published regulation restrictions. We have lost, and could continue to lose, market share to competitors who offer games that do not appear to comply with published regulatory restrictions on Class II games and therefore offer features not available in our products. The legal and regulatory uncertainties surrounding our Native American tribal 14 agreements could result in a significant and immediate adverse impact on our business and operating results. Additionally, such uncertainties could increase our cost of doing business and could take management’s attention away from operations. The trading price of our common stock has in the past been, and may in the future be, subject to significant fluctuations based upon market perceptions of the legal status of our products and our ability to compete in all markets, including Native American markets. Regulatory action against our customers or equipment in these or in other markets could result in machine seizures and significant revenue disruptions, among other adverse consequences. Moreover, Native American tribal policies and procedures, as well as tribal selection of gaming vendors, are subject to the political and governance environment within the Native American tribe. Changes in tribal leadership or tribal political pressure can affect our business relationships within Native American markets. State compacts with our existing Native American tribal customers to allow Class III gaming could reduce demand for our Class II games and our entry into the Class III market may be difficult as we compete against larger companies in the tribal Class III market. Certain of our Class II Native American tribal customers have entered into compacts with the states in which they operate to permit the operation of Class III games. While we seek to also provide Class II alternatives in these markets, we believe the num ber of our Class II game machine placements in those customers’ facilities could decline significantly, and our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. As our Native American tribal customers continue to transition to gaming under compacts with the state, we continue to face significant uncertainty in the market that makes our business in these states difficult to manage and predict and we may be forced to compete with larger companies that specialize in Class III gaming as these companies move into these newly created Class III markets. We believe the establishment of state compacts depends on a number of political, social, and economic factors that are inherently difficult to ascertain. Accordingly, although we attempt to closely monitor state legislative developments that could affect our business, we may not be able to timely predict if or when a compact could be entered into by one or more of our Native American tribal customers. For example, in Oklahom a, we anticipate that the introduction of Class III games will continue to pressure our market and revenue share percentages and may result in a shift in the market from revenue share arrangements to a “for sale” model. Casino operations are conducted at the discretion of our customers. We seek to provide assistance to our key customers in the form of project management, with a focus on facility layout and planning, gaming floor configuration and customized marketing and promotional in itiatives. Our key customers, however, are solely responsible for the operations of their facilities and are not required to consult us or take our advice on their operations, marketing, facility layout, gaming floor configuration, or promotional initiatives. Further, our customers’ are solely responsible for safety and security at their facilities. Our customers have in the past, and will in the future, remodel and expand their facilities. To the extent that our machines are not a part of an optimized facility layout or gaming floor configuration, are not supported by effective marketing or promotional initiatives or are scheduled to be out of service during a facility remodeling, or our customers' facilities are closed or not visited because of end-users concern for safety, our operating results could suffer. Litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to legal and regulatory requirements applicable to our business and industry. We are also subject to the risk of litigation by employees, customers, patent owners, suppliers, shareholders or others through private actions, class actions, administrative proceedings and other legal proceedings. Litigation can be lengthy, expensive, and disruptive to our operations and results cannot be predicted with certainty. Current estimates of loss regarding pending litigation may not be reflective of any particular final outcome. The results of rulings, jud gments or settlements of pending litigation may result in financial liability that is materially higher than what management has estimated at this time and we may experience adverse publicity associated with litigation, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are ultimately found liable. We make no assurances that we will not be subject to liability with respect to current or future litigation. We maintain various forms of insurance coverage. However, substantial rulings, judgments or settlements could exceed the amount of insurance coverage (or any cost allocation agreement with an insurance carrier), or could be excluded under the terms of an existing insurance policy. Moreover, our failure to comply with procedural or operational requirements inherent to our policies may void coverage. Additionally, failure to secure favorable outcomes in pending litigation could result in adverse consequences to our business, operating results and/or overall financial condition, incl uding without limitation, possible adverse effects on compliance with the terms of our Credit Agreement. Our current international businesses and potential expansion into other international gaming markets may present new challenges and risks that could adversely affect our business or results of operations. In recent years, we have expanded our business into several countries, including Mexico, Israel, Malta, and Canada. The Maltese operations have ceased; the Israeli operations are immaterial from a financial perspective; the Cana dian business has been project-oriented to date; however, the Mexican business has grown significantly since inception. We now operate approximately 4,800 15 units in Mexico, primarily across numerous facilities operated by one customer. Although the revenue results in Mexico have not met original expectations, we plan to continue to operate in this country but there can be no assurances that either revenues will grow or that we will continue supplying new products to that market. International business is inherently subject to various risks, including, but not limited to:▪ currency fluctuations;▪ difficulty in enforcing agreements;▪ higher operating costs due to local laws or regulations;▪ td>unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;▪ tariffs, taxes and other trade barriers, including value added tax;▪ general government instability;▪ violence, crime and social unrest;< div style="line-height:120%;text-align:justify;font-size:10pt;">▪ costs and risks of localizing products for foreign countries;▪ difficulties in staffing and managing geographically disparate operations;▪ greater difficulty in safeguarding intellectual property, licensing and other trade restrictions;▪ challenges negotiating and enforcing contractual provisions;▪ repatriation of earnings; and▪ anti-American sentiment as a result of perceived cultural, social, religious and/or political differences. The carrying value of our assets is dependent upon our ability to successfully deploy games into new or existing markets.We have player stations not deployed as of September 30, 2010, which are considered part of our rental pool. If the opening of new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities is altered negatively, either by significant de lay or by cancellation, the realizable value of these assets could be adversely impacted. In such instances we may be required to recognize impairment charges on these assets.We may not be able to successfully implement new sales strategies.As we attempt to generate new streams of revenue by selling units to new customers we may have difficulty implementing an effective sales strategy. Our failure to successfully implement an effective sales strategy could cause our future operating results to vary materially from what management has forecast.We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property rights, or avoiding claims that we are infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others.We rely upon patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, license agreements and employee nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary rights and technology, but these laws and contractual provisions provide only limited protection. We rely to a greater extent upon proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation to maintain our competitive position. Insofar as we rely on trade secrets, unpatented know-how and innovation, others may be able to independently develop similar technology, or our secrecy could be breached. The issuance of a patent to us does not necessarily mean that our technology does not infringe upo n the intellectual property rights of others. As we enter into new markets by leveraging our existing technology, and by developing new technology and new products, it becomes more and more likely that we will become subject to infringement claims from other parties. We are currently involved in a patent dispute with a competitor, International Gamco, Inc., regarding the '035 Patent. See “Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - Commitments and Contingencies.” Problems with patents or other rights could increase the cost of our products, or delay or preclude new product development and commercialization. If infringement claims against us are valid, we may seek licenses that might not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Litigation would be costly and time consuming, but may become necessary to protect our proprietary rights or to defen d against infringement claims. We could incur substantial costs and diversion of management resources in the defense of any claims relating to the proprietary rights of others or in asserting claims against others. We cannot guarantee that our intellectual property will provide us with a competitive advantage or that it will not be circumvented by our competitors. Some of our products may incorporate open source software. Open source licenses typically mandate that software developed based on source code that is subject to the open source license, or combined in specific ways with such open source software, become subject to the open source license. Open source licenses typically require that source code subject to the license be released or made available to the public. We take steps to ensure that proprietary software we do not wish to disclose i s not combined with, or does not incorporate, open source software in ways that would require such proprietary software to be subject to an open source license. However, few courts have interpreted the open source licenses, and the manner in which these licenses may be interpreted and enforced is therefore subject to some uncertainty. 16 We rely on software and games licensed from third parties, and on technology provided by third-party vendors, the loss of which could materially affect our business, increase our costs and delay deployment or suspend development of our gaming systems and player terminals.We integrate various third-party software products as components of our software and rely on third-party manufacturers to manufacture our equipment. Our business would be disrupted if either these manufacturers or if this software, or functional equivalents of this software, were either no longer availa ble to us or no longer offered to us on commercially reasonable terms. In either case, we would be required to either redesign our software to function with alternate third-party software, or to develop or manufacture these components ourselves, which would result in increased costs and could result in delays in our deployment of our gaming systems and player terminals. Furthermore, we might be forced to limit the features available in our current or future software offerings.We rely on the content of certain software that we license from third-party vendors and often distribute and sell such software to our customers. The software could contain “open source” code, require a resale license or contain bugs that could have an impact on our business. We also rely on the technology of third-party vendors, such as telecommunication providers , to operate our nationwide broadband telecommunications network. A serious or sustained disruption of the provision of these services could result in some of our player terminals being non-operational for the duration of the disruption, which would reduce over-all revenue from those player terminals.We do not rely upon the term of our customer contracts to retain the business of our customers.Our contracts with our customers are on a year-to-year or multi-year basis. Except for customers with whom we have entered into development and placement fee agreements, we do not rely upon the stated term of our customer contracts to retain the business of our customers. We rely in stead upon providing competitively superior player terminals, games and systems to give our customers the incentive to continue doing business with us. At any point in time, a significant portion of our business is subject to nonrenewal, which may materially and adversely affect our earnings, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, certain of our customer contracts have "buy out" provisions enabling our customer to purchase machines formerly provided to them under revenue participation arrangements. To the extent our customers exercise their buy out rights pursuant to these provisions, we recognize revenue from equipment sales in the current period while losing future participation revenue from purchased machines. This could have the effect of reducing our overall future revenues from these customers and thereby adversely affect our future operating results.If our key personnel leave us, our business could be materially adversely affected.We depend on the continued performance of the members of our senior management team and our technology team to assist in executing our strategy. In order to retain our key personnel, we have established a retention plan for calendar year 2010; however, key employees may depart despite our efforts. If we were to lose the services of any of our senior officers, directors, or any key member of our technology team, and could not find suitable replacements for such persons in a timely manner, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Further we expect that our efforts to grow will place a significant strain on our personnel, management systems, infrastructure and other resources. Our ability to manage future g rowth effectively will also require us to successfully attract, train, motivate, retain and manage new employees and continue to update and improve our operational, financial and management controls and procedures.Our Credit Agreement contains covenants that limit our ability to finance future operations or capital needs and to engage in other business activities. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our debt agreements, including the Credit Agreement, may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. Our Credit Agreement requi res us to limit capital expenditures to $40 million plus the value of any fixed assets transferred to inventory during the fiscal year, maintain a total leverage ratio of no more than 1.50:1.00 and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of at least 1.50:1.00. The Credit Agreement contains certain covenants that, among other things, restrict our and our subsidiaries’ ability to: • incur addi tional indebtedness, assume a guarantee or issue preferred stock; • pay dividends or make other equity distributions or payments to or affecting our subsidiaries; • make certain stock repurchases or redemptions; • make certain investments; • create liens; • sell or dispose of assets or engage in certain acquisitions, mergers or consolidations;17 • engage in certain transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates; and • enter into sale leaseback transactions. These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain future financing, make strategic acquisitions or needed capital expenditures, withstand economic downturns in our business or the economy in general, conduct operations or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may arise. A failure to comply with the restrictions contained in the Credit Agreement could lead to an event of default, which could result in an acceleration of our indebtedness. Our future operating results may not be sufficient to enable compliance with the covenants in the Credit Agreement or to remedy any such default . In addition, in the event of acceleration, we may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to refinance our indebtedness or make any accelerated payments. Also, we may not be able to obtain new financing. Even if we were able to obtain new financing, we cannot guarantee that the new financing will be on commercially reasonable terms or terms that are acceptable to us. If we default on our indebtedness, our business financial condition and results of operation could be materially and adversely affected. Current borrowings, as well as potential future financings, may substantially increase our current indebtedness. < /font>No assurance can be given that we will be able to generate the cash flows necessary to permit us to meet our fixed charges and payment obligations with respect to our debt. We could be required to incur additional indebtedness to meet these fixed charges and payment obligations. Should we incur additional debt, among other things, such increased indebtedness could: • adversely affect our ability to expand our business, market our products and make investments and capital expenditures; • adversely affect the cost and availability of funds from commercial lenders, debt financing transactions and other sources; and • create competitive disadvantages compared to other companies with lower debt levels. Any inability to service our fixed charges and payment obligati ons, or the incurrence of additional debt, would have an adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and business generally. Future revenue may not be sufficient to meet operating, product development and other cash flow requirements. Sufficient funds to service our debt and maintain new product development efforts and expected levels of operations may not be available, and additional capital, if and when needed by us, may not be available on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot obtain sufficient capital on acceptable terms when needed, we may not be able to carry out our planned product development efforts and level of operations, which could harm our business. Our financial results vary from quarter to quarter, which could negatively impact our business. Various factors affect our quarterly operating results, some of which are not within our control. These factors include, among others:▪ the financial strength of the gaming industry;▪ consumers' willingness to spend money on leisure activities;▪ < /font>an outbreak of a communicable disease;▪ the timing and introduction of new products and services;▪ the mix of products and services sold;▪ the timing of significant orders from and shipments to customers;▪ product and service pricing and discounts; and▪ the timing of acquisitions of other companies and businesses or dispositions.If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report financial results or prevent fraud.Effective internal controls are necessary to provide reliable financial reports and to assist in the effective prevention of fraud. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud could harm our business. We must annually evaluate our internal procedures to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires management and auditors to assess the effectiveness of internal controls. If we fail to remedy or maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties or shareholder litigation.In addition, failure to maintain adequate internal controls could result in financial statements that do not accurately reflect our 18 financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to complete the work necessary to fully comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or that our management and our independent registered public accounting firm will continue to conclude that our internal controls are effective.Any unauthorized, and potentially improper, actions of our personnel could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The recognition of our revenue depends on, among other things, the terms negotiated in our contracts with our customers. Our personnel may act outside of their authority and negotiate additional terms without our knowledge. We discourage such conduct, but there can be no assurance that our policy will be followed. For instance, in the event that our sales personnel negotiate terms that do not ap pear in the contract and of which we are unaware, whether the additional terms are written or verbal, we could be prevented from recognizing revenue in accordance with our plans. Furthermore, depending on when we learn of unauthorized actions and the size of transactions involved, we may have to restate revenue for a previously reported period, which would seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, certain of our customers and third-party testing laboratories have policies and procedures in place regarding the shipment and installation of our products. If such policies and procedures are not properly complied with by our personnel, we may experience a delay in installation, which could result in a loss of revenue, penalties, fines or fees, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. font>Our business prospects and future success rely heavily upon the integrity of our employees and executives and the security of our gaming systems.The integrity and security of our gaming systems are critical to our ability to attract customers and players. We strive to set exacting standards of personal integrity for our employees and for system security involving the gaming systems that we provide to our customers. Our reputation in this regard is an important factor in our business dealings with our current and potential customers as well as licensing boards. For this reason, an allegation or a finding of improper conduct on our part or on the part of one or more of our em ployees that is attributable to us, or of an actual or alleged system security defect or failure attributable to us could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results and prospects, including our ability to retain existing contracts or obtain new or renewed contracts.In the event gaming authorities determine that any of our officers, directors, key employees, shareholders or any other person is unsuitable to act in such a capacity, we will either be required to terminate our relationship with such person, which termination could have a material adverse effect on our business, or may not be able to terminate such relationship, which could impact our ability to obtain such license or approval. We currently do not have the right to redeem shares of an unsuitable shareholder, and a finding of unsuitability could have a material adverse effect on our business. In some jurisdictions, the gaming authority may determine that any of our officers, directors, key employees, shareholders or any other person is unsuitable to act in such capacity. There can be no assurance that we will obtain all the necessary licenses and approvals or that our officers, directors, key employees, their affiliates and certain other shareholders will satisfy the suitability requirements in each jurisdiction in which we seek to operate. The failure to obtain such licenses and approvals in one jurisdiction may affect our licensure and/or approvals in other jurisdictions. In addition, a significant delay in obtaining such licenses and approvals could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects.We may incur prize payouts in excess of game revenues.Certain of our contracts with our Native American customers relating to certain of our system games provide that our customers receive, on a daily basis, an agreed percentage of gross gaming revenues based upon an assumed level of prize payouts, rather than the actual level of prize payouts. This arrangement can result in our paying our customers amounts greater than our customers' percentage share of the actual win per unit. In addition, because the prizes awarded in our games are based upon assumptions as to the number of players in each game and statistical assumptions as to the frequency of winners, we may experience on any day, or over short periods of time, a “game deficit,&rd quo; where the aggregate amount of prizes paid exceeds aggregate game revenues. If we have to make any excess payments to customers, or experience a game deficit over any statistically relevant period of time, we are contractually entitled to adjust the rates of prize payout to end users in order to recover any deficit. In addition, a “game deficit” generates a receivable and we may be unable to offset such receivable against a “game surplus” payable. In the future, we may miscalculate our statistical assumptions, or for other reasons we may experience abnormally high rates of jackpot prize wins, which could materially and adversely affect our cash flow on a temporary or long-term basis, which could materially and adversely affect our earnings and financial condition.Our games and systems may experience loss based on malfunctions, anomalies or fraudulent activities.Our games and systems, and games and systems we license or distribute from third parties, could produce false payouts as the result of malfunctions, anomalies or fraudulent activities, which we may be required to pay. We depend on our security precautions to prevent fraud. We depend on regulatory safeguards, which may not be available in all jurisdictions or markets, to protect us against jackpots awarded as a result of malfunctions, anomalies or fraudulent activities. There can be no guarantee that regulatory 19 safeguards, in jurisdictions or markets where they do exist, will be sufficient to protect us from liabilities associated with malfunctions, anomalies or fraudulent activities. The occurrence of malfunctions, anomalies or fraudulent activities could result in litigation against us by our customers based on lost revenue or other claims based in tort or breach of contract. Moreover, these occurrences could result in investigations or disciplinary actions by applicable gaming regulators. Additionally, in the event of such issues with our gaming devices or software, substantial engineering and marketing resources may be diverted from other areas to rectify the problem.Any disruption in our network or telecommunications services, adverse weather conditions or other catastrophic events in the areas in which we operate could affect our ability to operate our games, which would result in reduced revenues and customer down time.Our network is susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, break-ins, cyberattacks and similar events. We have multiple site back-up for our services in the event of any such occurrence. Despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses and break-ins. Similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems in any s uch event could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.Adverse weather conditions, particularly flooding, tornadoes, heavy snowfall and other extreme weather conditions often deter our customer's end users from traveling, or make it difficult for them to frequent the sites where our games are installed. If any of those sites experienced prolonged adverse weather conditions, or if the sites in Oklahoma, where a significant number of our games are installed, simultaneously experienced adverse weather conditions, our results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected.We are parties to certain agreements that could require us to pay damages resulting from loss of revenues if our systems are not properly functioning, or as a result of a system malfunction or an inaccurate pay table. In addition, our agreement with the New York State Division of the Lottery permits termination of the contract at any time for failure by us or our system to perform properly. Furthermore, if we do not meet contract deadlines or specifications, we may need to renegotiate contracts on less favorable terms, be forced to pay penalties or liquidated damages or suffer major losses if the customer exercises its right to terminate. In addition, if we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts we may not realize their full benefits. Failure to perform under this contract or similar contracts could result in substantial monetary damages, as well as contract termination. Our results of operations are dependent on our ability to maximize our earnings from our contracts.Worsening economic conditions may adversely affect our business.The demand for entertainment and leisure activities tends to be highly sensitive to consumers' disposable incomes, and thus a decline in general economic conditions or an increase in gasoline prices may lead to our end users having less discretionary income with which to wager. This situation could cause a reduction in our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The gaming industry is currently experiencing a period of reduced demand. If, as a result of deteriorating economic conditions, fewer people frequent our customers' facilities, or if amounts spent per person in our customers' facilities are reduced from historical levels, our busine ss could be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, a decline in general economic conditions might negatively impact our customers' abilities to pay us in a timely fashion. Our customers' failures to make timely payments could result in an increase in our provision for bad debt.Current environmental laws and regulations, or those enacted in the future, could result in additional liabilities and costs.The manufacturing of our products may require the use of materials that are subject to a variety of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. Compliance with these laws could increase our costs and impact the availability of components required to manufa cture our products. Violation of these laws may subject us to significant fines, penalties or disposal costs, which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial position or cash flows.Our ability to recognize revenue at the time of sale and delivery is dependent upon obtaining Vendor Specific Objective Evidence (VSOE) for products yet to be delivered or services yet to be performed.We believe future transactions with both existing and future customers may be more complex than transactions entered into currently. As a result, we may enter into more complicated business and contractual relationships with customers which, in turn, can engender increased compl exity in the related financial accounting. Legal and regulatory uncertainty may also affect our ability to recognize revenue associated with a particular project, and therefore the timing and possibility of actual revenue recognition may differ from our forecast.The ability of the Board of Directors to issue preferred stock or anti-takeover provisions of Texas law and our governing documents could discourage a merger or other type of corporate reorganization or a change in control even if it could be favorable to the interests of our shareholders. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock and determine the terms of such preferred stock without shareholder approval. While we currently do not have any preferred stock issued and our Board of Directors has no 20 current plans, agreements or commitments to issue any shares of preferred stock, the issuance of such preferred stock may delay, defer or prevent a change in control because the terms of any issued preferred stock could potentially prohibit our consummation of any acquisition, reorganization, sale of substantially all of our assets, liquidation or other extraordinary corpor ate transaction. In addition, the issuance of preferred stock could have a dilutive effect on our shareholders and affect the price of our common stock. Other provisions of Texas law and our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control or acquisition, whether by means of a tender offer, business combination, proxy contest, or otherwise. Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws include purported limits on shareholder action by written consent in lieu of a meeting and certain procedural requirements governing the nomination of directors by shareholders and shareholder meetings. These provisions could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 21 