ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors should be carefully considered in connection with the other information and financial statements contained in this Annual Report, including “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously and materially harmed, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. We believe diversification from Native American gaming activities is critical to our growth strategy. Our expansion into non-Native-American gaming activities will present new challenges and risks that could adversely affect our business or results of operations. Our new markets are also subject to extensive legal and regulatory uncertainties. We face intensified competition in the Class II market that has historically provided the substantial majority of our revenue and earnings. Moreover, the apparent trend in regulatory developments suggests that Class II gaming may diminish as a percentage of overall gaming activity in the United States. As a result of these pressures, we have experienced declining market share in the Class II market. We believe it is imperative that we successfully diversify our operations to include gaming opportunities in markets other than our historical Class II jurisdictions. If we are unable to effectively develop and operate within these new markets, then our business, operating results and financial condition would be impaired. Our growth strategy includes selling and/or licensing our systems, games and technology into segments of the gaming industry other than Native American gaming, principally the charity and commercial bingo markets, but also into new jurisdictions authorizing video lottery systems. These and other non-Native-American gaming opportunities are not currently subject to a nationwide regulatory system such as the one created by IGRA to regulate Native American gaming, so regulation is on a state-by-state, and sometimes a county-by-county basis. In addition, federal laws relating to gaming, such as the Johnson Act, which regulates slot machines and similar gambling devices, apply to new video lottery jurisdictions, absent authorized state law exemptions. As we expand into new markets, we expect to encounter business, legal and regulatory uncertainties similar to those we face in our Native American gaming business. Our strategy is to attempt to be an early entrant into new and evolving markets where the legal and regulatory environment may not be well settled or well understood. As a result, we may encounter legal and regulatory challenges that are difficult or impossible to foresee and which could result in an unforeseen adverse impact on planned revenues or costs associated with the new market opportunity. For example, we face business and legal risks in connection with a charity gaming project, in part due to uncertainty related to the state authorization of charity gaming in that jurisdiction. On December 22, 2005, the Jefferson County Sheriff served a search warrant that an Alabama state judge had issued for the Birmingham Race Course. Pursuant to the search warrant, the sheriff shut down the promotional sweepstakes system that was operating at the facility. On January 31, 2006, the Alabama Circuit Court issued a Declaratory Judgment and Injunction that declared that the Promotional Sweepstakes game was legal under Alabama law (see “Recent Developments”). On March 22, 2006, the Jefferson County District Attorney appealed the entire final judgment to the Alabama Supreme Court. On December 1, 2006, the Alabama Supreme Court issued an opinion in the case of Barber v. Jefferson County Racing Association, Inc., Docket No. 1050857, or the Opinion, reversing an opinion of the Jefferson County, Alabama Circuit Court and rendering judgment in favor of District Attorney Barber. Regulatory action against our customers or equipment in these or in other markets could result in machine seizures and significant revenue disruptions, among other adverse consequences. Successful growth in accordance with our strategy may require us to make changes to our gaming systems to ensure that they comply with applicable regulatory regimes, and may require us to obtain additional licenses. In certain jurisdictions and for certain venues, our ability to enter these markets will depend on effecting changes to existing laws and regulatory regimes. The ability to effect these changes is subject to a great degree of uncertainty and may never be achieved. We may not be successful in entering into other segments of the gaming industry. -17- Table of Contents Generally, our placement of systems, games and technology into new market segments involves a number of business uncertainties, including: • Whether our resources and expertise will enable us to effectively operate and grow in such new markets; • Whether our internal processes and controls will continue to function effectively within these new segments; • Whether we have enough experience to accurately predict revenues and expenses in these new segments; • Whether the diversion of management attention and resources from our traditional business, caused by entering into new market segments, will have harmful effects on our traditional business; • Whether we will be able to successfully compete against larger companies who dominate the markets that we are trying to enter; and • Whether we can timely perform under our agreements in these new markets. We have only recently begun to develop international business, and we have realized revenue from the sale of an Electronic Instant Lottery System to the Israel National Lottery during fiscal 2006 and from contracts to supply Electronic Bingo Terminals to casinos in Mexico during fiscal 2006. Neither our transaction in Israel nor in Mexico has been profitable to date or is currently profitable, and may not lead to future profitable business. To date, there are not as many permanent facilities opened in Mexico as we originally projected, and the hold per day in certain of the open facilities in Mexico has not met our original expectations. There can be no assurances that our games will gain market acceptance in Mexico, additional facilities will open in Mexico, or that the hold per day will increase in those facilities in Mexico currently not meeting our expectations. International transactions are subject to various risks, including: • Currency fluctuations; • Higher operating costs due to local laws or regulations; • Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • Costs and risks of localizing products for foreign countries; • Difficulties in staffing and managing geographically disparate operations; • Greater difficulty in safeguarding intellectual property, licensing and other trade restrictions; • Challenges negotiating and enforcing contractual provisions; • Repatriation of earnings; and • Anti-American sentiment due to the war in Iraq and other American policies that may be unpopular in certain regions, particularly in the Middle East. Beginning in January 2004, we began the first operation of our central determinant system for the video lottery terminal network that the New York Lottery operates at licensed New York State racetrack casinos. As payment for providing and maintaining the central determinant system, we receive a small portion of the network-wide hold per day. To date, we have realized substantially less revenue than anticipated from our New York Lottery operations, in significant part due to delays in the opening of planned operations at several racetrack casinos. We are nevertheless required to incur ongoing expenses associated with the development and maintenance of the New York video lottery system, and we do not currently expect to have profitable operations there until one or more of the larger racetrack casinos are opened. Delays in the anticipated development of the New York video lottery system and other emerging market opportunities may continue to adversely affect our revenue and operating results. We believe future transactions with existing and future customers may be more complex than transactions entered into currently. As a result, we may enter into more complicated business and contractual relationships with customers which, in turn, can engender increased complexity in the related financial accounting. Legal and regulatory uncertainty may also affect our ability to recognize revenue associated with a particular project, and therefore the timing and possibility of actual revenue recognition may differ from our forecast. -18- Table of Contents We face legal and regulatory uncertainties that threaten our ability to conduct our business and to effectively compete in our Native American gaming markets, that increase our cost of doing business and that divert substantial management time away from our operations. Historically, we have derived most of our revenue from the placement of Class II player terminals and systems for gaming activities conducted on Native American lands. These activities are subject to federal regulation under the Johnson Act, the IGRA, and under the rules and regulations adopted by both the NIGC and the gaming commissions that each Native American tribe establishes to regulate gaming. The Johnson Act broadly defines “gambling devices” to include any “machine or mechanical device” designed and manufactured “primarily” for use in connection with gambling, and that, when operated, delivers money or other property to a player “as the result of the application of an element of chance.” A government agency or court that literally applied this definition, and did not give effect to subsequent congressional legislation or to certain regulatory interpretations or judicial decisions, could determine that the manufacture and use of our electronic player terminals, and perhaps other key components of our Class II gaming systems that rely to some extent upon electronic equipment to run a game, constitute Class III gaming, and in the absence of a tribal-state compact, are illegal. Our tribal customers could be subject to significant fines and penalties if it is ultimately determined they are offering an illegal game, and an adverse regulatory or judicial determination regarding the legal status of our products could have material adverse consequences for our business, operating results and prospects. Significantly, in October 2005, the DOJ made available to the public proposed legislation the agency has drafted amending the Gambling Devices Act, 15 U.S.C. § 1171, et seq. (commonly referred to as the Johnson Act). After conducting a series of consultation meetings with Native American tribes, the DOJ released a newly revised draft bill earlier this year that, if enacted, could materially and adversely affect our Class II gaming market. The proposed legislation would classify electronic technologic aids used by Native American tribes in Class II games such as bingo, as gambling devices, and would authorize the use of such Class II devices by Native American tribes only if such devices are certified by the NIGC as Class II technologic aids. The proposed legislation authorizes the NIGC to promulgate regulations regarding the use of technologic aids. The NIGC regulations must maintain a distinction between Class II technologic aids and Class III gambling devices based upon the internal and external characteristics of the gambling devices and the manner in which the games using gambling devices are played. The DOJ has not yet found congressional sponsors for its proposed bill. In November 2005, Senator John McCain introduced legislation designed in part to expand the authority of the NIGC to review contracts between Native American tribes and their suppliers. Senator McCain’s proposal is in the early legislative phase, and we have not yet assessed the full impact on our business if legislation of this nature is ultimately adopted. However, it is likely that expanding the authority of the NIGC to include review of contracts, such as those we typically enter into with our tribal customers, would significantly encumber our contracting process and may have the effect of delaying, modifying or preventing otherwise profitable contractual relationships. The market for electronic Class II player terminals and systems is subject to continuing ambiguity, due to the difficulty of reconciling the Johnson Act’s broad definition of “gambling devices” with the provisions of IGRA that expressly make legal the play of bingo and tribes’ use of “electronic, computer, or other technologic aids” in the play of bingo. Issues surrounding the classification of our games as Class II games that may generally be offered by our tribal customers without a tribal-state compact, or as Class III games that can only be offered by the tribes pursuant to such a compact, have affected our business in the past, and continue to do so. Government enforcement, regulatory action, judicial decisions, or the prospects or rumors thereof have in the past and will continue to affect our business, operating results and prospects. Although some of our games have been reviewed and approved as legal Class II games by the NIGC, we have placed and continue to derive revenue from a significant number of player terminals running games that have not been so approved. Our business and operating results would likely be adversely affected, at least in the short term, by any significant regulatory enforcement action involving our games. The trading price of our common stock has in the past and may in the future be subject to significant fluctuations based upon market perceptions of the legal status of our products. Native American gaming activities involving our games and systems are also subject to regulation by state and local authorities, to the extent such gaming activities constitute, or are perceived to constitute, Class III gaming. Class III gaming is illegal in most states unless conducted by a tribe pursuant to a compact between a tribe and the state in which the tribe is located. The Class III video lottery systems we offer, such as the systems and terminals operating in Washington State, are subject to regulation by authorities in that state and to the terms of the compacts between the tribes offering such games and the State of Washington. Gaming activities under the new tribal-state compact in Oklahoma are subject to the terms of the compact between such tribes and the state of Oklahoma. Regulatory interpretations and enforcement actions by state regulators could have significant and immediate adverse impacts on our business and operating results. -19- Table of Contents In addition to federal, state and local regulation, all Native American tribes are required by IGRA to adopt ordinances regulating gaming as a condition of their right to conduct gaming on Native American lands. These ordinances often include the establishment of tribal gaming commissions that make their own judgment about whether an activity is Class II or Class III gaming. Normally, we will not introduce a new Class II game in a customer’s gaming facility unless the tribe’s gaming commission has made its own independent determination that the game is Class II gaming. Adverse regulatory decisions by tribal gaming commissions could adversely affect our business. We also face risks from a lack of regulatory or judicial enforcement action. In particular, we believe we have lost market share to competitors who offer games that do not appear to comply with published regulatory restrictions on Class II games, and thereby offer features not available in our products. As a consequence of recently adopted gaming legislation in Oklahoma, we believe vendors with whom we compete, as well as some tribes operating gaming facilities in Oklahoma, have increased deployment of games that do not appear to comply with published regulatory restrictions for Class II games, in advance of final regulations required under the new legislation. To the extent tribes offer these games rather than ours, our market share, revenue and operating results have suffered, and may continue to suffer. It is possible that new laws and regulations relating to Native American gaming may be enacted, and that existing laws and regulations could be amended or reinterpreted in a manner adverse to our business. Any regulatory change could materially and adversely affect the installation and use of existing and additional player terminals, games and systems, and our ability to generate revenues from some or all of our Class II games. In addition to the risks described above, regulatory uncertainty increases our cost of doing business. We dedicate significant time to and incur significant expense for new game development, without any assurance that the NIGC, the DOJ, or other federal, state or local agencies or Native American gaming commissions will agree that our games meet applicable regulatory requirements. We also regularly invest in the development of new games, which may become irrelevant or noncompetitive before they are deployed. We devote significant time and expense to dealing with federal, state and Native American agencies having jurisdiction over Native American gaming, and in complying with the various regulatory regimes that govern our business. In addition, we are constantly monitoring new and proposed laws and regulations, or changes to such laws and regulations, and assessing the possible impact upon us, our customers and our markets. The manner in which certain of our Native American customers acquired land in trust after 1988, and have used such land for gaming purposes, may affect the legality of those gaming facilities. The Inspector General for the Department of the Interior recently testified before a U.S. Senate committee that his office was in the process of completing an inquiry into techniques used by certain tribes of acquiring land in trust for non-gaming purposes but subsequently opening a gaming facility on such trust land. Recently, the Acting General Counsel for the NIGC testified before the Senate Indian Affairs Committee that, as a result of the Inspector General’s inquiry, the NIGC was conducting its own investigation into the practice of certain tribes conducting gaming on land originally acquired in trust for non-gaming purposes. Unless the land qualifies under one of the exceptions contained in the IGRA, thereby authorizing gaming to be conducted on such land, it could lose its “Indian lands” status under IGRA. We currently face risks related to regulation of our magnetic stripe gaming card system. The NIGC has recently determined that the magnetic stripe card system, employed by Native American gaming operations using the gaming system developed by us, is an “account access card” system as defined in the NIGC’s Minimum Internal Control Standards((25 C.F.R. § 542.3(c)(2)), or MICS, regulation, thereby triggering certain recordkeeping requirements. An “account access card” is defined as “an instrument to access customer accounts for wagering at a gaming machine. Account access cards are used in connection with a computerized database. Account access cards are not smart cards.” On July 8, 2005, the NIGC issued a Warning Notice to certain tribes for, among other things, noncompliance with the recordkeeping requirements applicable to account access cards. According to the Warning Notice, the cashiers were not obtaining signatures from the customers on our receipts when cashing out. The NIGC is also of the opinion that the Bank Secrecy Act recordkeeping requirements apply to account access cards. The MICS require compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act. Because the IRS is conducting a Bank Secrecy Act audit at one of the tribal casinos, the NIGC has deferred a determination of whether the tribal gaming operations are in compliance with (25 C.F.R. § 542.3(c)(2) until the IRS audit is completed. -20- Table of Contents In addition to the issues raised by the NIGC, we may face regulatory risks as a result of interpretations of other federal regulations, such as banking regulations, as applied to our gaming systems. We may be required to make changes to our games to comply with such regulations, with attendant costs and delays that could adversely affect our business. We continue to work with our legal counsel and tribal customers, exploring ways to modify the magnetic stripe card system to eliminate the “account” aspect of the system so that it operates like script or a bearer instrument. Our future performance will depend on our ability to develop and introduce new gaming systems and to enhance existing games that are widely accepted and played. Our future performance will depend primarily on our ability to successfully and cost-effectively enter new gaming markets, and develop and introduce new and enhanced gaming systems and content that will be widely accepted both by our customers and their end users. We believe our business requires us to continually offer games and technology that play quickly and provide more entertainment value than those our competitors offer. However, consumer preferences can be difficult to predict, and we may offer new games or technologies that do not achieve market acceptance. In addition, we may experience future delays in game development, or we may not be successful in developing, introducing, and marketing new games or game enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis. We believe, for example, our recent operating results in the Alabama market have been due in part to the competitive position of our games and our need to continually offer new and compelling games in all our markets. Furthermore, our new games may be subject to challenge by the NIGC, the DOJ, or some other regulatory or law enforcement agencies applicable to that particular game. If we are unable, for technological, regulatory, political, financial, marketing or other reasons, to develop and introduce new gaming systems and to enhance existing products in a timely manner in response to changing regulatory, legal or market conditions or customer requirements, or if new products or new versions of existing products do not achieve market acceptance, or if uneven enforcement policies cause us to continue facing competition from noncompliant games offered by some competitors, our business could be materially and adversely affected. We are dependent upon a few customers who are based in Oklahoma. For the years ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, approximately 52% and 57%, respectively, of our gaming revenues were from Native American tribes located in Oklahoma, and in both years, approximately 36% of our gaming revenues were from one tribe in that state. The significant concentration of our customers in Oklahoma means that local economic changes may adversely affect our customers, and therefore our business, disproportionately to changes in national economic conditions, including more sudden adverse economic declines or slower economic recovery from prior declines. The loss of any of our Oklahoma tribes as customers would have a material and adverse effect upon our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the recent legislation allowing tribal-state compacts in Oklahoma has resulted in increased competition from other vendors, who we believe have avoided entry into the Oklahoma market due to its uncertain and ambiguous legal environment. The new legislation allows for other types of gaming, both at tribal gaming facilities and at Oklahoma racetracks. The loss of significant market share to these new gaming opportunities or our competitors’ products in Oklahoma could also have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition and results of operations. As states enter into compacts with our existing Native American customers to allow Class III gaming, our results of operations could be materially harmed. As our Class II tribal customers enter into such compacts with the states in which they operate, allowing the tribes to offer Class III games, we believe the number of our game machine placements in those customers’ facilities could decline significantly, and our operating results could be materially adversely affected. As our tribal customers make the transition to gaming under compacts with the state, we believe there will be significant uncertainty in the market for our games that will make our business more difficult to manage or predict. During 2004, the Oklahoma Legislature passed legislation authorizing certain forms of gaming at racetracks, and additional types of games at tribal gaming facilities, pursuant to a tribal-state compact. The Oklahoma gaming legislation allows the tribes to sign a compact with the state of Oklahoma to operate an unlimited number of electronic instant bingo games, electronic bonanza-style bingo games, electronic amusement games, and non-house-banked tournament card games. In addition, certain horse tracks in Oklahoma are allowed to operate a limited number of instant and bonanza-style bingo games and electronic amusement games. On March 30, 2005, our bonanza-style bingo games became the first such games played in the state. As of September 30, 2006, we had -21- Table of Contents placed 2,408 player terminals at 25 facilities that are operating under the Oklahoma compact. All vendors placing games at any of the racetracks under the compact will ultimately be required to be licensed by the state of Oklahoma. Pursuant to the compacts, vendors placing games at tribal facilities will have to be licensed by each tribe. All electronic games placed under the compact will have to be certified by independent testing laboratories to meet technical specifications. These technical specifications were published by the Oklahoma Horse Racing Commission and the individual tribal gaming authorities in the first calendar quarter of 2005. To date, independent testing labs have given wide latitude as to what constitutes a compliant game. We believe the recently adopted Oklahoma legislation significantly clarifies and expands the types of gaming permitted by Native American tribes in Oklahoma. We currently expect continued intensified competition from vendors currently operating in Oklahoma as well as from new market entrants. As a result, we anticipate further pressure on our market and revenue share percentages in Oklahoma. We believe the recent introduction into the Oklahoma market of more aggressive instant bingo machines with characteristics of traditional slot machines, could adversely affect our operating results and market position in that state. The new legislation requires Oklahoma tribes to develop their own vendor licensing procedures. Some of our Oklahoma tribal customers have developed these procedures, and others are in the process of defining the procedures. For that reason, deployment of games to be operated under a compact in Oklahoma is proceeding at an erratic pace and will continue to do so for many months. Moreover, tribal policies and procedures, as well as tribal selection of gaming vendors, are subject to the political and governance environment within the tribe. Changes in tribal leadership or tribal political pressure can affect our relationships with our customers. As a result of these and other considerations, it remains difficult to forecast the short-term impact on our business from the recent Oklahoma gaming legislation. We believe the establishment of state compacts depends on a number of political, social, and economic factors which are inherently difficult to ascertain. Accordingly, although we attempt to closely monitor state legislative developments that could affect our business, we may not be able to timely predict when or if a compact could be entered into by one or more of our tribal customers. Although we believe our agreements with WMS and Aristocrat position us to compete effectively as resellers of Class III gaming equipment in the Oklahoma market and we also have plans to compete in the Oklahoma market by offering our own proprietary Class III gaming systems, there can be no assurance that our Class III offerings in Oklahoma will be successful or achieve market acceptance. If we are unsuccessful at converting our networked Class II player terminals into stand alone Class III player terminals in Oklahoma our future operating results would be adversely affected. We are seeking to expand our business by lending money to new and existing customers to develop or expand gaming facilities, primarily in the state of Oklahoma. We may not realize a satisfactory return, if any, on our investment, and we could lose some or all of our investment. We enter into development agreements to provide financing for construction and/or remodeling of gaming facilities, primarily in the state of Oklahoma. Under our development agreements, we secure a long-term revenue share percentage and a fixed number of player terminal placements in the facility, in exchange for development and construction funding. We may continue to seek to enter into strategic relationships to provide financing for new or expanded gaming and related facilities for our customers. However, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any of these strategic relationships or financing. In connection with one or more of these transactions, and to obtain the necessary development funds, we may: issue additional equity securities which would dilute existing stockholders; extend secured and unsecured credit to potential or existing tribal customers which may not be repaid; incur debt on terms unfavorable to us or that we are unable to repay; and incur contingent liabilities. Our development efforts or financing activities may result in unforeseen operating difficulties, financial risks, or required expenditures that could adversely affect our liquidity. It may also divert the time and attention of our management that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business. As a result of providing financing to our customers, we may incur liquidity pressure and we may not realize a satisfactory return, if any, on our investment, and we could lose some or all of our investment. The NIGC has expressed its view that our development agreements violate the requirements of IGRA and tribal gaming regulations, which state that the Native American tribes must hold “sole proprietary interest” in the tribes’ gaming operations, which presents additional risks for our business. See “Certain Risk Factors – Changes in regulation or regulatory interpretations could require us to modify the terms of our contracts with customers.” Certain of the agreements contain player terminal performance standards that could allow the facility to reduce a portion of our guaranteed floor space. We are aware that certain of our games may not currently meet these performance standards. In addition, certain development agreements allow the facilities to buy out floor space after advances that are subject to repayment have been repaid. -22- Table of Contents We have in the past and in the future expect to, reduce our floor space in certain of our Class II facilities as a result of ongoing competitive pressures faced by our customers from alternative gaming facilities and faced by our machines from competitors’ products. In addition, future NIGC decisions could affect our ability to place our games with these tribes. See “Certain Risk Factors – Enforcement of remedies or contracts against Native American tribes could be difficult.” We compete for customers and end users with other vendors of gaming systems and player terminals and with other forms of entertainment. We compete with other vendors for customers, primarily on the basis of the amount of profit our gaming products generate for our customers in relation to other vendors’ gaming products. We believe that the most important factor influencing our customers’ product selection is the appeal of those products to end users. This appeal has a direct effect on the volume of play by end users, and drives the amount of revenues generated for and by our customers. Our ability to remain competitive depends primarily on our ability to continuously develop new game themes and systems that appeal to end users, and to introduce those game themes and systems in a timely manner. See “Certain Risk Factors – Our future performance will depend on our ability to develop and introduce new gaming systems and to enhance existing games that are widely accepted and played.” We may not be able to continue to develop and introduce appealing new game themes and systems that meet the emerging requirements in a timely manner, or at all. In addition, others may independently develop games similar to our games, and competitors may introduce noncompliant games that unfairly compete in certain markets due to uneven regulatory enforcement policies. We believe continued developments in the Class II market that alleviate or clarify the legal and regulatory uncertainties of that market will result in increased competition in the interactive electronic Class II gaming market, including the entrance of new competitors with significant gaming experience and financial resources. We also expect to face increased competition as we attempt to enter new markets and new geographical locations. Specifically, three of the largest manufacturers of gaming equipment have entered or expressed an interest in the Class II market, and we are also increasingly competing against these vendors in our charity and lottery markets. In at least one instance, we have competed with a joint proposal of two of these significant vendors. We believe the increased competition will intensify pressure on our pricing model. In the future, gaming providers will compete on the basis of price as well as the entertainment value and technological superiority of their products. While we will continue to compete by regularly introducing new and faster games with technological enhancements that we believe will appeal to end users, we believe that the net revenue our customers retain from their installed base of player terminals will become a more significant factor, one that may require us to change the terms of our participation arrangements with customers to remain competitive. Consequently, we believe that a simple business model based upon a relationship between the average hold per player terminal per day and the installed base of player terminals will become less relevant in predicting our performance, as the totality and the mix of our participation arrangements with customers become less standardized and more complex. Given the limitations placed on Class II gaming, we may not be able to successfully compete in gaming jurisdictions and facilities where slot machines, table games and other forms of Class III gaming are permitted. Furthermore, increases in the popularity of, and competition from an expansion of Class III gaming, or Internet and other account wagering gaming services, which allow end users to wager on a wide variety of sporting events and to play traditional casino games from home, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our business requires us to obtain and maintain various licenses, permits and approvals from state governments and other entities that regulate our business. We have obtained all state licenses, lottery board licenses, Native American gaming commission licenses, findings of suitability, registrations, permits and approvals necessary for the operation of our gaming activities. These include a license from Washington State to sell Class III video lottery systems, and licenses from the lottery boards of Texas, Iowa and New York. The Louisiana Department of Revenue and the Mississippi Gaming Commission have also issued licenses to us, and we have received licenses from all applicable Native American gaming commissions. We may require new licenses, permits and approvals in the future, and such licenses, permits or approvals may not be granted to us. The suspension, revocation, nonrenewal or limitation of any of our licenses would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Oklahoma tribal customers are in the early stages of developing their own licensing procedures under the new legislation, and we currently have limited, if any, information regarding the ultimate process or expenses involved with securing licensure by the tribes. Moreover, tribal policies and procedures, as well as tribal selection of gaming vendors, are subject to the political and governance environment within the tribe. -23- Table of Contents We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property rights, or avoiding claims that we are infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others. We rely upon patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, license agreements and employee nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary rights and technology, but these laws and contractual provisions provide only limited protection. We rely to a greater extent upon proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation to maintain our competitive position. Insofar as we rely on trade secrets, unpatented know-how and innovation, others may be able to independently develop similar technology, or our secrecy could be breached. The issuance of a patent to us does not necessarily mean that our technology does not infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. As the Class II market grows and we enter into new markets by leveraging our existing technology, it becomes more and more likely that we will become subject to infringement claims from other parties. Problems with patents or other rights could increase the cost of our products, or delay or preclude new product development and commercialization. If infringement claims against us are valid, we may seek licenses that might not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Litigation would be costly and time consuming, but may become necessary to protect our proprietary rights or to defend against infringement claims. We could incur substantial costs and diversion of management resources in the defense of any claims relating to the proprietary rights of others or in asserting claims against others. We rely on software licensed from third parties, and technology provided by third-party vendors, the loss of which could increase our costs and delay deployment of our gaming systems and player terminals. We also rely on technology provided by third-party vendors which, if disrupted, could suspend play on some of our player terminals. We integrate various third-party software products as components of our software. Our business would be disrupted if this software, or functional equivalents of this software, were either no longer available to us or no longer offered to us on commercially reasonable terms. In either case, we would be required to either redesign our software to function with alternate third-party software, or develop these components ourselves, which would result in increased costs and could result in delays in our deployment of our gaming systems and player terminals. Furthermore, we might be forced to limit the features available in our current or future software offerings. We rely on the content of certain software that we license from third-party vendors. The software could contain bugs that could have an impact on our business. We also rely on the technology of third-party vendors, such as telecommunication providers, to operate our nationwide broadband telecommunications network. A serious or sustained disruption of the provision of these services could result in some of our player terminals being nonoperational for the duration of the disruption, which would adversely affect our ability to generate revenue from those player terminals. We do not rely upon the term of our customer contracts to retain the business of our customers. Our contracts with our customers are on a year-to-year or multiyear basis. Except for customers with whom we have entered into development agreements, we do not rely upon the stated term of our customer contracts to retain the business of our customers, as often noncontractual considerations unique to doing business in the Native American market override strict adherence to contractual provisions. We rely instead upon providing competitively superior player terminals, games and systems to give our customers the incentive to continue doing business with us. At any point in time, a significant portion of our business is subject to nonrenewal, and, if not renewed, would materially and adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. Changes in regulation or regulatory interpretations could require us to modify the terms of our contracts with customers. The NIGC has recently determined that the magnetic stripe card system, employed by Native American gaming operations using the gaming system developed by us, is an “account access card” system as defined in the NIGC’s MICS regulation, thereby triggering certain recordkeeping requirements. An “account access card” is defined as “an instrument to access customer accounts for wagering at a gaming machine.” Account access cards are used in connection with a computerized database. Account access cards are not “smart cards.” On July 8, 2005, the NIGC issued a Warning Notice to certain tribes for, among other things, noncompliance with the recordkeeping requirements applicable to account access cards. According to the Warning Notice, the cashiers were not obtaining signatures from the customers on our receipts when cashing out. The NIGC is also of the opinion that the Bank Secrecy Act recordkeeping requirements apply to account access cards. The MICS require compliance -24- Table of Contents with the Bank Secrecy Act. Because the IRS is conducting a Bank Secrecy Act audit at one of the tribal casinos, the NIGC has deferred a determination of whether the tribal gaming operations are in compliance with MICS until the IRS audit is completed. We continue to work with our legal counsel and tribal customers, exploring ways to modify the magnetic stripe card system to eliminate the “account” aspect of the system so that the card system operates like script or a bearer instrument. Except as described below, the NIGC has considered the provisions of the agreements under which we provide our Class II games, equipment and services to our Native American customers, and has determined that these agreements are “service agreements” and not “management contracts.” Management contracts are subject to additional regulatory requirements and oversight, including preapproval by the NIGC that could delay our providing products and services to customers, as well as divert customers to our competitors. In April 2004, we received a letter from the NIGC advising us that our agreements with a certain customer may constitute a management contract requiring the approval of the Chairman of the NIGC. We have maintained that the agreement relied on by the NIGC was an old, outdated agreement that was not applicable to the customer’s gaming facility. The NIGC has taken no further action in this matter. On November 30, 2004, we received letters from the Acting General Counsel of the NIGC advising us that our development agreements with certain other tribes may evince a proprietary interest by us in the tribes’ gaming activities, in violation of IGRA and the tribes’ gaming ordinances, based on the fee we receive under the agreements. The NIGC invited us and the tribes to submit any explanation or information that would establish that the agreement terms do not violate the requirement that tribes maintain sole proprietary interest in their gaming operations. The NIGC letters also advised that some of the agreements may constitute management contracts, thereby requiring the approval of the Chairman of the NIGC. We have responded to the NIGC, explaining why the agreements do not violate the sole proprietary interest prohibition of IGRA or constitute management agreements. Furthermore, we will vigorously contest any NIGC action that would adversely affect our agreements with the tribes. To date, the NIGC has take no further action in this matter. If certain of our development agreements are finally determined to be management contracts or to create a proprietary interest of ours in tribal gaming operations, there could be material adverse consequences to us. In that event, we may be required, among other things, to modify the terms of such agreements. Such modification may adversely affect the terms on which we conduct business, and have a significant impact on our financial condition and results of operations from such agreements and from other development agreements that may be similarly interpreted by the NIGC. If our key personnel leave us, our business could be materially adversely affected. We depend on the continued performance of the members of our senior management team and our technology team. If we were to lose the services of any of our senior officers, directors, or any key member of our technology team, and could not find suitable replacements for such persons in a timely manner, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Enforcement of remedies or contracts against Native American tribes could be difficult. Governing and Native American Law. Federally recognized Native American tribes are independent governments, subordinate to the United States, with sovereign powers, except as those powers may have been limited by treaty or by the U.S. Congress. Native Americans’ power to enact their own laws to regulate gaming is an exercise of Native American sovereignty, as recognized by IGRA. Native American tribes maintain their own governmental systems and often their own judicial systems. Native American tribes have the right to tax persons and enterprises conducting business on Native American lands, and also have the right to require licenses and to impose other forms of regulation and regulatory fees on persons and businesses operating on their lands. Native American tribes, as sovereign nations, are generally subject only to federal regulation. Although Congress may regulate Native American tribes, states do not have the authority to regulate Native American tribes unless such authority has been specifically granted by Congress. In the absence of a specific grant of authority by Congress, states may regulate activities taking place on Native American lands only if the tribe has a specific agreement or compact with the state. In the absence of a conflicting federal or properly authorized state law, Native American law governs. -25- Table of Contents Our contracts with Native American customers normally provide that only certain provisions will be subject to the governing law of the state in which a tribe is located. However, these choice-of-law clauses may not be enforceable. Sovereign Immunity; Applicable Courts. Native American tribes generally enjoy sovereign immunity from suits similar to that of the individual states and the United States. In order to sue a Native American tribe (or an agency or instrumentality of a Native American tribe), the tribe must have effectively waived its sovereign immunity with respect to the matter in dispute. Our contracts with Native American customers include a limited waiver of each tribe’s sovereign immunity, and generally provide that any dispute regarding interpretation, performance or enforcement shall be submitted to, and resolved by, arbitration in accordance with the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association, and that any award, determination, order or relief resulting from such arbitration is binding and may be entered in any court having jurisdiction. In the event that such waiver of sovereign immunity is held to be ineffective, we could be precluded from judicially enforcing any rights or remedies against a tribe. These rights and remedies include, but are not limited to, our right to enter Native American lands to retrieve our property in the event of a breach of contract by the tribe party to that contract. If a Native American tribe has effectively waived its sovereign immunity, there exists an issue as to the forum in which a lawsuit can be brought against the tribe. Federal courts are courts of limited jurisdiction and generally do not have jurisdiction to hear civil cases relating to Native Americans. In addition, contractual provisions that purport to grant jurisdiction to a federal court are not effective. Federal courts may have jurisdiction if a federal question is raised by the suit, which is unlikely in a typical contract dispute. Diversity of citizenship, another common basis for federal court jurisdiction, is not generally present in a suit against a tribe, because a Native American tribe is not considered a citizen of any state. Accordingly, in most commercial disputes with tribes, the jurisdiction of the federal courts may be difficult or impossible to obtain. We may be unable to enforce any arbitration decision effectively. We may incur prize payouts in excess of game revenues. Certain of our contracts with our Native American customers relating to our Legacy and Reel Time Bingo system games provide that our customers receive, on a daily basis, an agreed percentage of gross gaming revenues based upon an assumed level of prize payouts, rather than the actual level of prize payouts. This can result in our paying our customers amounts greater than our customers’ percentage share of the actual hold per day. In addition, because the prizes awarded in our games are based upon assumptions as to the number of players in each game and statistical assumptions as to the frequency of winners, we may experience on any day, or over short periods of time, a “game deficit,” where the aggregate amount of prizes paid exceeds aggregate game revenues. If we have to make any excess payments to customers, or experience a game deficit over any statistically relevant period of time, we are contractually entitled to adjust the rates of prize payout to end users in order to recover any deficit. In the future, we may miscalculate our statistical assumptions, or for other reasons, we may experience abnormally high rates of jackpot prize wins, which could materially and adversely affect our cash flow on a temporary or long-term basis, and which could materially and adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. Our business prospects and future success rely heavily upon the integrity of our employees and executives and the security of our gaming systems. The integrity and security of our gaming systems is critical to its ability to attract customers and players. We strive to set exacting standards of personal integrity for our employees and for system security involving the gaming systems that we provide to our customers. Our reputation in this regard is an important factor in our business dealings with our current and potential customers. For this reason, an allegation or a finding of improper conduct on our part or on the part of one or more of our employees that is attributable to us, or of an actual or alleged system security defect or failure attributable to us could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results, and prospects, including our ability to retain existing contracts or obtain new or renewed contracts. -26- Table of Contents Any disruption in our network or telecommunications services, or adverse weather conditions in the areas in which we operate could affect our ability to operate our games, which would result in reduced revenues and customer down time. Our network is susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, break-ins, cyber attacks and similar events. We have multiple site back-up for our services in the event of any such occurrence. Despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses and break-ins; similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems in any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Adverse weather conditions, particularly flooding, tornadoes, heavy snowfall and other extreme weather conditions often deter our end users from traveling or make it difficult for them to frequent the sites where our games are installed. If any of those sites were to experience prolonged adverse weather conditions, or if the sites in Oklahoma, where a significant number of our games are installed, were to simultaneously experience adverse weather conditions, our results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. In addition, our agreement with the New York State Division of the Lottery permits termination of the contract at any time for failure by us or our system to perform properly. We were also required to post a performance bond to secure our performance under such contract. Failure to perform under this or similar contracts could result in substantial monetary damages, as well as contract termination. In addition, we enter into certain agreements that could require us to pay damages resulting from loss of revenues if our systems are not properly functioning, or as a result of a system malfunction or an inaccurate pay table. Worsening economic conditions may adversely affect our business. The demand for entertainment and leisure activities tends to be highly sensitive to consumers’ disposable incomes, and thus a decline in general economic conditions or an increase in gasoline prices may lead to our end users’ having less discretionary income with which to wager. This could cause a reduction in our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 