Risk Factors – Our ability to effectively compete in Native American gaming markets is vulnerable to legal and regulatory uncertainties.” In the past we have, and in the future we expect to, reduce our floor space in certain of our Class II facilities as a result of ongoing competitive pressures faced by our customers from alternative gaming facilities and faced by our machines from competitors’ products. In addition, future NIGC decisions could affect our ability to place our games with these tribes. Our industry is intensely competitive. We compete in an intensely competitive industry against larger companies with significant financial, research design and development, and marketing resources. These larger companies are aggressively competing against us in our core business operations, including but not limited to, charity bingo, lottery, Class II, Class III, and international bingo markets. Additionally, new smaller competitors may enter our traditional markets. The increased competition will intensify pressure on our pricing model. We expect to face increased competition as we attempt to enter new markets and new geographical locations. In the future, gaming providers will compete on the basis of price as well as the entertainment value and technological superiority of their products. -20- Other members of our industry may independently develop games similar to our games, and competitors may introduce noncompliant games that unfairly compete in certain markets due to uneven regulatory enforcement policies. Additionally, or customers compete with other providers of entertainment for their end user’s entertainment budget. Consequently, our customers might not be able to spend new capital on acquiring gaming equipment. Moreover, our customers might reduce their utilization of revenue share agreements. We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property rights, or avoiding claims that we are infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others. We rely upon patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, license agreements and employee nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary rights and technology, but these laws and contractual provisions provide only limited protection. We rely to a greater extent upon proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation to maintain our competitive position. Insofar as we rely on trade secrets, unpatented know-how and innovation, others may be able to independently develop similar technology, or our secrecy could be breached. The issuance of a patent to us does not necessarily mean that our technology does not infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. As we enter into new markets by leveraging our existing technology, and by developing new technology and new products, it becomes more and more likely that we will become subject to infringement claims from other parties. We are currently involved in several patent disputes. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Problems with patents or other rights could increase the cost of our products, or delay or preclude new product development and commercialization. If infringement claims against us are valid, we may seek licenses that might not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Litigation would be costly and time consuming, but may become necessary to protect our proprietary rights or to defend against infringement claims. We could incur substantial costs and diversion of management resources in the defense of any claims relating to the proprietary rights of others or in asserting claims against others. We cannot guarantee that our intellectual property will provide us with a competitive advantage or that it will not be circumvented by competitors. We rely on software licensed from third parties, and technology provided by third-party vendors, the loss of which could increase our costs and delay deployment and/or suspend of our gaming systems and player terminals. We integrate various third-party software products as components of our software. Our business would be disrupted if this software, or functional equivalents of this software, were either no longer available to us or no longer offered to us on commercially reasonable terms. In either case, we would be required to either redesign our software to function with alternate third-party software, or develop these components ourselves, which would result in increased costs and could result in delays in our deployment of our gaming systems and player terminals. Furthermore, we might be forced to limit the features available in our current or future software offerings. We rely on the content of certain software that we license from third-party vendors. The software could contain bugs that could have an impact on our business. We also rely on the technology of third-party vendors, such as telecommunication providers, to operate our nationwide broadband telecommunications network. A serious or sustained disruption of the provision of these services could result in some of our player terminals being non-operational for the duration of the disruption, which would adversely affect our ability to generate revenue from those player terminals. Our Credit Facility contains covenants that limit our ability to finance future operations or capital needs, or to engage in other business activities. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our debt agreements, including the Credit Facility may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. Our Credit Facility requires us to maintain a minimum EBITDA of $60 million on a trailing twelve month basis, a total debt to EBITDA leverage ratio of no more than 1.75:1.00 and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of at least 1.5:1.0. The Credit Facility contains certain covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability as well as our restricted subsidiaries’ ability to: -21- § incur additional indebtedness, assume a guarantee or issue preferred stock; § pay dividends or make other equity distributions or payments to or affecting our subsidiaries; § purchase treasury stock; § make certain investments; § create liens; § sell or dispose of assets or engage in mergers or consolidations; § engage in certain transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates; § enter into sale leaseback transactions; and; § certain business activities. These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain future financing, make strategic acquisitions or needed capital expenditures, withstand economic downturns in our business or the economy in general, conduct operations or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may arise. A failure to comply with the restrictions contained in the Credit Facility could lead to an event of default, which could result in an acceleration of our indebtedness. Such acceleration would constitute an event of default under the indentures governing the senior unsecured notes. Our future operating results may not be sufficient to enable compliance with the covenants in the Credit Facility or to remedy any such default. In addition, in the event of acceleration, we may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to refinance our indebtedness or make any accelerated payments. Also, we may not be able to obtain new financing. Even if we were able to obtain new financing, we cannot guarantee that the new financing will be on commercially reasonable terms or terms that are acceptable to us. If we default on our indebtedness, our business financial condition and results of operation could be materially and adversely affected. We do not rely upon the term of our customer contracts to retain the business of our customers. Our contracts with our customers are on a year-to-year or multi-year basis. Except for customers with whom we have entered into development agreements, we do not rely upon the stated term of our customer contracts to retain the business of our customers, as often noncontractual considerations unique to doing business in the Native American market override strict adherence to contractual provisions. We rely instead upon providing competitively superior player terminals, games and systems to give our customers the incentive to continue doing business with us. At any point in time, a significant portion of our business is subject to nonrenewal, and, if not renewed, would materially and adversely affect our earnings, financial condition and cash flows. If our key personnel leave us, our business could be materially adversely affected. We depend on the continued performance of the members of our senior management team and our technology team. If we were to lose the services of any of our senior officers, directors, or any key member of our technology team, and could not find suitable replacements for such persons in a timely manner, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may incur prize payouts in excess of game revenues. Certain of our contracts with our Native American customers relating to our Legacy and Reel Time Bingo system games provide that our customers receive, on a daily basis, an agreed percentage of gross gaming revenues based upon an assumed level of prize payouts, rather than the actual level of prize payouts. This can result in our paying our customers amounts greater than our customers’ percentage share of the actual hold per day. In addition, because the prizes awarded in our games are based upon assumptions as to the number of players in each game and statistical assumptions as to the frequency of winners, we may experience on any day, or over short periods of time, a “game deficit,” where the aggregate amount of prizes paid exceeds aggregate game revenues. If we have to make any excess payments to customers, or experience a game deficit over any statistically relevant period of time, we are contractually entitled to adjust the rates of prize payout to end users in order to recover any deficit. In the future, we may miscalculate our statistical assumptions, or for other reasons, we may experience abnormally high rates of jackpot prize wins, which could materially and adversely affect our cash flow on a temporary or long-term basis, and which could materially and adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. -22- If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report financial results or prevent fraud. Effective internal controls are necessary to provide reliable financial reports and to assist in the effective prevention of fraud. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud could harm our business. We must annually evaluate our internal procedures to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires management and auditors to assess the effectiveness of internal controls. If we fail to remedy or maintain the adequacy of its internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, the Company could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties or shareholder litigation. In addition, failure to maintain adequate internal controls could result in financial statements that do not accurately reflect our financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to complete the work necessary to fully comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or that our management and our independent registered public accounting firm will continue to conclude that our internal controls are effective. Our business prospects and future success rely heavily upon the integrity of our employees and executives and the security of our gaming systems. The integrity and security of our gaming systems is critical to its ability to attract customers and players. We strive to set exacting standards of personal integrity for our employees and for system security involving the gaming systems that we provide to our customers. Our reputation in this regard is an important factor in our business dealings with our current and potential customers. For this reason, an allegation or a finding of improper conduct on our part or on the part of one or more of our employees that is attributable to us, or of an actual or alleged system security defect or failure attributable to us could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results, and prospects, including our ability to retain existing contracts or obtain new or renewed contracts. Our games and systems may experience loss based on malfunctions, anomalies and/or fraudulent activities. Our games and systems could produce false payouts as the result of malfunctions, anomalies and/or fraudulent activities. We depend on our security precautions to prevent fraud. We depend on regulatory safeguards, which may not be available in all jurisdictions and/or markets, to protect us against jackpots awarded as a result of malfunctions, anomalies and/or fraudulent activities. There can be no guarantee that regulatory safeguards, in jurisdictions and/or markets were they do exist, will be sufficient to protect us from liabilities associated with malfunctions, anomalies and/or fraudulent activities. The occurrence of malfunctions, anomalies and/or fraudulent activities could result in litigation against us by our customers based on lost revenue and or other claims based in tort or breach of contract. Moreover, these occurrences could result in investigations and/or disciplinary actions by applicable gaming regulators. Any disruption in our network or telecommunications services, or adverse weather conditions in the areas in which we operate could affect our ability to operate our games, which would result in reduced revenues and customer down time. Our network is susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, break-ins, cyberattacks and similar events. We have multiple site back-up for our services in the event of any such occurrence. Despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses and break-ins; similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems in any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Adverse weather conditions, particularly flooding, tornadoes, heavy snowfall and other extreme weather conditions often deter our end users from traveling, or make it difficult for them to frequent the sites where our games are installed. If any of those sites experienced prolonged adverse weather conditions, or if the sites in Oklahoma, where a significant number of our games are installed, simultaneously experienced adverse weather conditions, our results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. In addition, our agreement with the New York State Division of the Lottery permits termination of the contract at any time for failure by us or our system to perform properly. Failure to perform under this or similar contracts could result in substantial monetary damages, as well as contract termination. -23- In addition, we enter into certain agreements that could require us to pay damages resulting from loss of revenues if our systems are not properly functioning, or as a result of a system malfunction or an inaccurate pay table. Worsening economic conditions may adversely affect our business. The demand for entertainment and leisure activities tends to be highly sensitive to consumers’ disposable incomes, and thus a decline in general economic conditions or an increase in gasoline prices may lead to our end users having less discretionary income with which to wager. This could cause a reduction in our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The gaming industry is currently experiencing a period of reduced demand. If as a result of deteriorating economic conditions, fewer people gamble in our customers' facilities, or if amounts spent per person in our customers' facilities are reduced from historical levels, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, a decline in general economic conditions might negatively impact our customers’ ability to pay us in a timely fashion. Our customers’ failure to make timely payments could result in an increase in our bad debt provision. Our ability to recognize revenue at the time of sale and delivery is dependent upon obtaining Vendor-Specific Objective Evidence, or VSOE, for products yet to be delivered or services yet to be performed. We believe future transactions with existing and future customers may be more complex than transactions entered into currently. As a result, we may enter into more complicated business and contractual relationships with customers which, in turn, can engender increased complexity in the related financial accounting. Legal and regulatory uncertainty may also affect our ability to recognize revenue associated with a particular project, and therefore the timing and possibility of actual revenue recognition may differ from our forecast. The carrying value of our assets in Mexico is dependent upon our ability to successfully deploy games into Mexico. We have excess player stations not deployed at September 30, 2008, which were intended to be deployed at facilities in Mexico. If the opening of facilities is altered negatively, either by significant delay, or by cancellation, the realizable value of these assets could be reduced. In such instances we may be required to recognize increased expense on our income statement related to the impairment of these assets. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 