ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves risks. Prospective investors in our common stock should carefully consider, among other things, the following risk factors in connection with the other information and financial statements contained in this Annual Report, including “PART II – Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” prior to making an investment decision. We have identified the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward looking statements we may make from time to time. We operate in a continually changing business environment in which new risk factors emerge from time to time. We can neither predict these new risk factors, nor can we assess the impact, if any, of these new risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward looking statement. If any of these risks, or combination of risks, actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously and materially harmed, and the trading price of our common stock could decline.We are largely dependent upon one customer. For the years ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, approximately 41% and 44%, respectively, of our total revenues were from one customer. Our relationship with that customer is largely governed by multiple development or placement fee agreements. Under our development and placement fee agreements, we secure a long-term revenue share percentage and a fixed number of player terminal placements in the facility, in exchange for funding the development and construction of the gaming facility. Some of these agreements are set to terminate pursuant to their terms during the next several years and we may not be able to renegotiate new agreements with that customer. We have a significant concentration of revenues in Oklahoma and changes in economic, regulatory and licensing conditions in Oklahoma may adversely affect our business.For the years ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, approximately 55% and 57%, respectively, of our total revenues were from Native American tribes located in Oklahoma. A significant concentration of our revenue comes from Oklahoma, and local economic, regulatory and licensing changes may adversely affect our Oklahoma customers, and therefore our development and placement fee agreements and our business, disproportionately to changes in national economic conditions, including adverse economic declines or slower economic recovery from prior declines. While we continue to seek to diversify the markets in which we operate, the loss of Oklahoma tribes as customers, including our largest customer, or a material decrease in our revenue share with our largest customer, would have a material and adverse effect upon our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, legislation allowing tribal-state compacts in Oklahoma has resulted in increased competition from other vendors, who we believe previously avoided entry into the Oklahoma market due to its uncertain and ambiguous legal environment. The State of Oklahoma permits other types of gaming, both at Native American tribal gaming facilities and at Oklahoma racetracks, and many of our competitors now seek entry into this market. The loss of significant market share to these new types of games or the increased presence of our competitors’ products in Oklahoma could also have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition and results of operations. We believe that the introduction of our competitor’s more aggressive Class II machines, with characteristics of traditional slot machines, into the Oklahoma Class II market has adversely affected our operating results and market position in that state and may continue to do so in the future. The gaming industry is intensely competitive. We may not be able to successfully compete in new and existing markets due to research and development, intellectual property and regulatory challenges, and if we are unable to compete effectively, our business could be negatively impacted. We operate in an intensely competitive industry against larger companies with significant financial, research design and development, and marketing resources. These larger companies, most of whom have greater resources, are aggressively competing against us in our core business operations, including but not limited to, charity bingo, lottery, Class II, Class III, commercial slot and international bingo/gaming markets. Additionally, new smaller competitors compete against us in our traditional markets, and these smaller competitors often do not face the same regulatory and/or compliance restraints that we have. The increased competition will intensify pressure on our pricing model. We expect to face increased competition as we attempt to enter new markets and new geographical locations. There are a number of established, well-financed companies producing gaming devices, game content and systems that compete with our products. Certain of these competitors may have access to greater capital resources and intellectual property than we do, and as a result, may be better positioned to compete in the marketplace. The market is crowded, with International Game Technology, WMS Industries, Inc., Bally Technologies, Inc., Aristocrat Technologies, Inc. and Konami Co. Ltd. comprising the primary competition. Pricing, accuracy, reliability, product features and functions are among the factors affecting a provider's success in selling its system. 17Competition in the gaming industry is intense due to the number of providers, as well as the limited number of facilities and jurisdictions in which they operate. In addition, obtaining space and favorable placement on casino gaming floors is a competitive factor in our industry. As a result of consolidation among the gaming facilities and the recent cutbacks in spending by facility operators due to the downturn in the economy, the level of competition among providers has increased significantly as the number of potential customers has decreased. Other members of our industry may independently develop games similar to our games, and competitors may introduce noncompliant games that unfairly compete in certain markets due to uneven regulatory enforcement policies/actions. Additionally, our customers compete with other providers of entertainment for their end user’s entertainment budget. Consequently, our customers might not be able to spend new capital on acquiring gaming equipment. Moreover, our customers might reduce their utilization of revenue share agreements. We may not collect all amounts recorded for value added taxes related to our operations in Mexico and may be subject to additional income tax as a result. Our Mexican operations are subject to a value added tax, or VAT, which has been applied to the imports of products originating outside of Mexico. We have an outstanding VAT receivable from the Mexican taxing authority primarily related to VAT levied on product shipments for 2006 and 2007. At September 30, 2011 and 2010, the Company’s VAT receivable was $2.8 million and $4.6 million, respectively. The Mexican taxing authority has ruled on 2006 and 2007 and has challenged the registration of certain of our transactions that have generated approximately $384,000 in VAT receivable. Although we have fully reserved the VAT receivable, we have also formally contested these rulings, and we continue to believe we have a reasonable defense. However, the final resolution of the contested balances remains uncertain and may adversely affect the carrying value of the receivable. In addition, the Mexican taxing authorities have completed income tax audits for the 2006 and 2007 periods and have ruled that a revised assessment of approximately $2.4 million should be issued for the 2007 period. Upon appeal, the Mexican taxing authorities have reduced their original assessment and we believe we can continue to provide the necessary evidence for a reasonable defense; however, an adverse determination could result in additional foreign income tax expense, which may adversely affect our financial condition, operating results or cash flow.We may be subject to penalties as a result of customs audits in Mexico which may adversely affect our financial results. We may be subject to penalties and assessments from the Servicio de Administracion Tributaria, or SAT, a Mexican governmental taxing entity, as a result of discrepancies on customs records related to the importation of certain machines into Mexico, which may adversely affect our financial results.Our business operations and product offerings are subject to strict regulatory licenses, findings of suitability, registrations, permits and/or approvals that may limit our existing operations and have a negative impact on our ability to grow, which could be materially adverse to our business and prospects. Our ability to conduct our existing traditional business, expand operations, develop and distribute new products, games and systems, and expand into new gaming markets is subject to significant federal, state, local, Native American, and foreign regulations. In the United States and many other countries, gaming must be expressly authorized by law. Once authorized, such activities are subject to extensive and evolving governmental regulation. Moreover, gaming regulatory requirements vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. We expect to be subject to a wide range of complex gaming laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we intend to operate which could be time consuming, expensive and distracting to management. As we expand into new markets, we expect to encounter business, legal, operational and regulatory uncertainties as well as additional responsibilities. We recently entered into several major commercial jurisdictions, including Nevada, Mississippi and Louisiana, and as a result, are subject to increasing legal, regulatory and reporting requirements that will require substantial additional resources. As we enter into new markets, we may encounter legal and regulatory challenges that are difficult or impossible to foresee and which could result in an unforeseen adverse impact on planned revenues or costs associated with the new market opportunity. If we are unable to effectively develop and operate within these new markets, then our business, operating results and financial condition would be impaired. Furthermore, as we attempt to generate new streams of revenue by selling units to new customers we may have difficulty implementing an effective sales strategy for jurisdictional specific games. Our failure to successfully implement an effective sales strategy could cause our future operating results to vary materially from what management has forecast. The regulatory environment in any particular jurisdiction may change in the future, and any such change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, business or prospects. Moreover, there can be no assurance that gaming activities will be approved by additional jurisdictions or that those jurisdictions in which these activities are currently permitted will continue to permit such activities. Although we plan to develop procedures and policies to comply with the requirements of evolving laws, there can be no assurance that law enforcement or gaming regulatory authorities will not seek to restrict our business in their jurisdictions or institute enforcement proceedings if we are not compliant.18Moreover, in addition to the risk of enforcement action, we are also at risk of loss of business reputation in the event of any potential legal or regulatory investigation whether or not we are ultimately accused of or found to have committed any violation. A negative regulatory finding or ruling in one jurisdiction could have adverse consequences in other jurisdictions, including with gaming regulators. Furthermore, the failure to become licensed, or the loss or conditioning of a license, in one market may have the adverse effect of preventing licensing in other markets or the revocation of licenses we already maintain.Our company, our officers, directors, key employees, major shareholders, as well as our business partners and certain suppliers, products, games and systems are subject to licenses, findings of suitability, registrations, permits or approvals necessary for the operation of our gaming activities. We have received licenses, findings of suitability, registrations, permits or approvals from a number of state, local, Native American, and foreign gaming regulatory authorities. Our Native American tribal customers are empowered to develop their own licensing procedures and requirements. Moreover, Native American tribal policies and procedures, as well as tribal selection of gaming vendors, are subject to the political and governance environment within each Native American tribe. In addition, we require new licenses, permits and approvals, including third-party certifications that our games comply with a particular jurisdiction's stated regulations, in order to meet our expectations for new market entry, and such licenses, permits or approvals may not be timely granted to us, or granted to us at all, which could have a material effect on our business in general and new market entry specifically. Obtaining and maintaining all required licenses, findings of suitability, registrations, permits or approvals is time consuming and expensive. The suspension, revocation, nonrenewal or limitation of any of our licenses would have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition results of operations and our ability to maintain key employees. Additionally, the gaming authorities may deny, limit, condition, suspend or revoke a gaming license or related approval for violations of applicable gaming laws and regulations and may impose substantial fines and take other actions, any one of which could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If additional gaming laws or regulations are adopted, these regulations could impose restrictions or costs that could have a significant adverse effect on us. Further, changes in existing gaming laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing gaming laws may hinder or prevent us from continuing to operate in those jurisdictions where we currently do business, which would harm our operating results. In particular, the enactment of unfavorable legislation or government efforts affecting or directed at manufacturers or gaming operators, such as referendums to increase gaming taxes or requirements to use local distributors, would likely have a negative impact on our operations.Entering into new markets may require us to make changes to our gaming systems to ensure that they comply with applicable regulatory requirements, and may require us to obtain additional licenses. In certain jurisdictions and for certain venues, our ability to enter these markets will depend on effecting changes to existing laws and regulatory regimes. The ability to effect these changes is subject to a great degree of uncertainty and may never be achieved. We may not be successful in entering into other segments of the gaming industry. Generally, our placement of systems, games and technology into new market segments involves a number of business uncertainties, including: •whether the technical platform on which our gaming units, systems, and products are based will comply or can be modified to comply with the minimum technical requirements for the each of the identified new gaming markets;•whether we are able to successfully pass required field trials and comply with the initial game/system installation requirements for each new jurisdiction;•whether our resources and expertise will enable us to effectively operate and grow in such new markets, including meeting regulatory requirements;•whether our internal processes and controls will continue to function effectively within these new segments;•whether we have enough experience to accurately predict revenues and expenses in these new markets;•whether the diversion of management attention and resources from our traditional business, caused by entering into new market segments, will have harmful effects on our traditional business;•whether we will be able to successfully compete against larger companies who dominate the markets that we are trying to enter; and19•whether we can timely perform under our agreements in these new markets because of other unforeseen obstacles.If we are unable to keep pace with rapid innovations in new technologies or product design and deployment, or if we are unable to quickly adapt our development and manufacturing processes to compete, our business and results of operation could be negatively impacted. Our success is dependent on our ability to develop and sell new products and systems that are attractive not only to our customers, but also to their customers, the end players. If our gaming devices do not appeal to customers, or if our gaming devices do not meet or sustain revenue and profitability of contractual obligations and expectations, our gaming devices may be replaced by our competitors' devices. Additionally, we may be unable to enhance existing products in a timely manner in response to changing regulatory, legal or market conditions or customer requirements, or new products or new versions of our existing products may not achieve market acceptance in new or existing markets. Therefore, our future success depends upon our ability to design and market technologically sophisticated products that meet our customer's needs regarding, among other things, ease of use and adaptability, but also that are unique and entertaining such that they achieve high levels of player appeal and sustainability. If we fail to keep pace with our competitors, our business could be adversely affected and a decrease in demand for our games could also result in an increase in our inventory obsolescence charges.The demands of our customers and the preferences of the end players are continuously changing. As a result, there is constant pressure to develop and market new game content and technologically innovative products. As our revenues are heavily dependent on the earning power and life span of our games and because newer game themes tend to have a shorter life span than more traditional game themes, we face increased pressure to design and deploy new and successful game themes to maintain our revenue stream and remain competitive. Our ability to develop new and innovative products could be adversely affected by:•the failure of our new gaming products to become popular with end players;•a decision by our customers or the gaming industry in general to decline to purchases our new gaming devices or to cancel or return previous orders, content or systems in anticipation of newer technologies;•an inability to roll out new games, services or systems on schedule as a result of delays in regulatory product approval in the applicable jurisdictions, or otherwise; and•an increase in the popularity of competitors' games.There is no assurance that our investments in research and development will lead to successful new technologies or timely new products. We invest heavily in product development in various disciplines from hardware, software, and firmware engineering to game design, video, multimedia, graphics, and sound. Our newer products are generally more technologically sophisticated and are of a different form than those we have produced in the past and we must continually refine our production capabilities to meet the needs of our product innovation. If we cannot adapt our manufacturing infrastructure to meet the needs of our product innovations, or if we are unable to make upgrades to our production capacity in a timely manner, our business could be negatively impacted. We may not realize satisfactory returns on money lent or otherwise funded to new and existing customers to develop or expand gaming facilities. We enter into development and placement fee agreements to provide financing for construction, expansion, or remodeling of gaming facilities, primarily in the State of Oklahoma. Under our development and placement fee agreements, we secure a long-term revenue share percentage and a fixed number of player terminal placements in the facility, in exchange for funding the development and construction of the gaming facility. We may not, however, realize the anticipated benefits of any of these strategic relationships or financings as our success in these ventures is dependent upon the timely completion of the gaming facility, the placement of our player terminals, and a favorable regulatory environment. For example, in fiscal 2010, we took a material impairment charge for a note receivable for money lent in connection with a development agreement for an Alabama facility because of the legal uncertainty of charitable bingo in the State and in fiscal 2011, we removed all charitable bingo machines from charity customer facilities in the State of Alabama due to regulatory changes in the State.Our development and placement efforts and financing activities may result in operating difficulties, financial risks, or required expenditures that could adversely affect our liquidity. In connection with one or more of these transactions, and to obtain the necessary development and placement fee funds, we may need to extend secured and unsecured credit to potential or existing customers that may not be repaid, incur debt on terms unfavorable to us or that we are unable to repay, or incur other contingent liabilities. While we believe the increased level of receivables from counterparties to development agreements has allowed us to 20grow our business, it has also required direct, additional focus of and involvement by management. The failure to maintain controls and processes related to our collection efforts or the deterioration of the financial condition of our customers could negatively impact our business. Slow growth in the establishment of new gaming jurisdictions or the number of new casinos and declines in the rate of replacement for existing gaming machines could limit or reduce our future profits. While we continue to seek entry into already established gaming jurisdictions, demand for our products is also driven by the establishment of new gaming jurisdictions, the addition of new casinos or expansion of existing casinos within existing gaming jurisdictions and the replacement of existing gaming machines. The establishment or expansion of gaming in any jurisdiction typically requires a public referendum or other legislative action. As a result, gaming continues to be the subject of public debate, and there are numerous active organizations that oppose gaming. Opposition to gaming, such as that which we recently experienced in Alabama, could result in restrictions on or even prohibitions of gaming operations or the expansion of operations in any jurisdiction. In addition, the construction of new casinos or expansion of existing casinos fluctuates with demand, general economic conditions and the availability of financing. The rate of gaming growth in North America has diminished and machine replacements as a percentage of total floor space is at historically low levels. Slow growth in the establishment of new gaming jurisdictions, public protest, political opposition, delays in the opening of new or expanded casinos and continued declines in or low levels of demand for machine replacements, including from greater competition from table games, could reduce the demand for our products and our future profits.Our ability to effectively compete in Native American gaming markets is vulnerable to legal and regulatory uncertainties, including the ability to enforce contractual rights on Native American land. Historically, we have derived a majority of our revenue from the placement of Class II player terminals and systems for gaming activities conducted on Native American lands. Because federally recognized Native American tribes are independent governments with sovereign powers, Native American tribes can enact their own laws and regulate gaming operations and contracts. Native American tribes maintain their own governmental systems and often their own judicial systems and have the right to tax persons and enterprises conducting business on Native American lands, and also have the right to require licenses and to impose other forms of regulation and regulatory fees on persons and businesses operating on their lands. In the absence of a specific grant of authority by Congress, states may regulate activities taking place on Native American lands only if the Native American tribe has a specific agreement or compact with the state. Our contracts with Native American tribal customers normally provide that only certain provisions will be subject to the governing law of the state in which a Native American tribe is located. However, these choice-of-law clauses may not be enforceable. Additionally, Native American tribes generally enjoy sovereign immunity from lawsuits similar to that of the individual states and the United States. Before we can sue or enforce contract rights with a Native American tribe, or an agency or instrumentality of a Native American tribe, the Native American tribe must effectively waive its sovereign immunity with respect to the matter in dispute, which we are not always able to obtain. For example, our largest customer, who accounts for over 41% of our revenue as of September 30, 2011, has not given us a waiver of sovereign immunity. Without a limited waiver of sovereign immunity, or if such waiver is held to be ineffective, we could be precluded from judicially enforcing any rights or remedies against a Native American tribe, including the right to enter Native American lands to retrieve our property in the event of a breach of contract by the tribe party to that contract. Even if the waiver of sovereign immunity by a Native American tribe is deemed effective, there will be an issue as to the forum in which a lawsuit can be brought against the Native American tribe. Federal courts are courts of limited jurisdiction and generally do not have jurisdiction to hear civil cases relating to Native American tribes and we may be unable to enforce any arbitration decision effectively.Our agreements with Native American tribes are subject to review by regulatory authorities. For example, our development agreements are subject to review by the NIGC and any such review could require substantial modifications to our agreements or result in the determination that we have a proprietary interest in a Native American tribe’s gaming activity which could materially and adversely affect the terms on which we conduct our business. The NIGC has previously expressed the view that some of our development agreements could be in violation of the requirements of the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act of 1988 and Native American tribal gaming regulations, which state that the Native American tribes must hold “sole proprietary interest” in the Native American tribes’ gaming operations, which presents additional risk for our business. The NIGC may also reinterpret applicable laws and regulations, which could affect our agreements with Native American tribes. We could be affected by alternative interpretations of the Gambling Devices Act, 15 U.S.C. § 1171, et. seq., or the "Johnson Act," as the customers of our Class II games, the Native American tribes, could be subject to significant fines and penalties if it is ultimately determined they are offering an illegal game, and an adverse regulatory or judicial determination regarding the legal status of our products could have material adverse consequences for our business, operating results and prospects. 21Government enforcement, regulatory action, judicial decisions, and proposed legislative action have in the past, and will likely continue to affect our business, operating results and prospects in Native American tribal lands. We believe that a number of our competitors have not complied with published regulation restrictions. We have lost, and could continue to lose, market share to competitors who offer games that do not appear to comply with published regulatory restrictions on Class II games and therefore offer features not available in our products. The legal and regulatory uncertainties surrounding our Native American tribal agreements could result in a significant and immediate adverse impact on our business and operating results. Additionally, such uncertainties could increase our cost of doing business and could take management’s attention away from operations. The trading price of our common stock has in the past been, and may in the future be, subject to significant fluctuations based upon market perceptions of the legal status of our products and our ability to compete in all markets, including Native American markets. Regulatory action against our customers or equipment in these or in other markets could result in machine seizures and significant revenue disruptions, among other adverse consequences. Moreover, Native American tribal policies and procedures, as well as tribal selection of gaming vendors, are subject to the political and governance environment within each Native American tribe. Changes in tribal leadership or tribal political pressure can affect our business relationships within Native American markets. State compacts with our existing Native American tribal customers to allow Class III gaming could reduce demand for our Class II games and our entry into the Class III market may be difficult as we compete against larger companies in the tribal Class III market. Certain of our Class II Native American tribal customers have entered into compacts with the states in which they operate to permit the operation of Class III games. While we seek to also provide Class II alternatives in these markets, we believe the number of our Class II game machine placements in those customers’ facilities could decline, and our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. As our Native American tribal customers continue to transition to gaming under compacts with their respective states, we continue to face significant uncertainty in this market that makes our business in such markets difficult to manage and predict and we may be forced to compete with larger companies that specialize in Class III gaming as these companies move into these newly created Class III compact markets. We believe the establishment of state compacts depends on a number of political, social, and economic factors that are inherently difficult to ascertain. Accordingly, although we attempt to closely monitor state legislative developments that could affect our business, we may not be able to timely predict if or when a compact could be entered into by one or more of our Native American tribal customers. For example, in Oklahoma, we anticipate that the introduction of Class III games will continue to pressure our market and revenue share percentages and may result in a shift in the market from revenue share arrangements to a sale model. We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property rights, or in avoiding claims that either we are infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others, or that our intellectual property is not valid and enforceable.We rely upon patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, license agreements and employee nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary rights and technology, but these laws and contractual provisions provide only limited protection. We rely to a greater extent upon proprietary know‑how and continuing technological innovation to maintain our competitive position. Insofar as we rely on trade secrets, unpatented know‑how and innovation, others may be able to independently develop similar technology, or our secrecy could be breached. The issuance of a patent to us does not necessarily mean that our technology or products do not infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. As we enter into new markets by leveraging our existing technology, and by developing new technology and new products, it becomes more likely that we will become subject to infringement claims from other parties, many of whom have significantly greater resources than we do. Problems with patents or other rights could increase the cost of our products, or delay or preclude new product development and commercialization. If infringement claims against us are valid, we may seek licenses that might not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Litigation would be costly and time consuming, but may become necessary to protect our proprietary rights or to defend against infringement claims. We could incur substantial costs and diversion of management resources in the defense of any claims relating to the proprietary rights of others or in asserting claims against others. These expenses could have an adverse effect on our future cash flows and results of operations. Our assessment of current intellectual property litigation could change in light of the discovery of facts not presently known to us, determinations by judges, juries or others that do not agree with our evaluation of the possible liability or outcome of such litigation, or changes in the patent laws. If we are found to infringe on the rights of others we could be required to discontinue offering certain products or systems, to pay damages, or purchase a license to use the intellectual property in question from its owner. Litigation can also distract management from the day-to-day operations of the business. We cannot guarantee that our intellectual properties will provide us with a competitive advantage, that it will not be circumvented by our competitors, or that it is all valid and enforceable. Our success may depend in part on our ability to obtain trademark protection for the names or symbols under which we market our products and to obtain copyright protection and patent protection of our proprietary technologies, intellectual property and other game innovations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to build and maintain goodwill in our trademarks or obtain 22trademark or patent protection, that any trademark, copyright or issued patent will provide competitive advantages for us, that our intellectual properties will not be successfully challenged or circumvented by competitors, or that our patents and other intellectual property are valid and enforceable. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and independent contractors regarding our trade secrets and proprietary information, but we cannot assure you that the obligation to maintain the confidentiality of our trade secrets or proprietary information will be honored. Despite various confidentiality agreements and other trade secret protections, our trade secrets and proprietary know-how could become known to, or independently developed by, competitors. Some of our products may incorporate open source software. Open source licenses typically mandate that software developed based on source code that is subject to the open source license, or combined in specific ways with such open source software, become subject to the open source license. Open source licenses typically require that source code subject to the license be released or made available to the public. We take steps to ensure that proprietary software we do not wish to disclose is not combined with, or does not incorporate, open source software in ways that would require such proprietary software to be subject to an open source license. However, few courts have interpreted the open source licenses, and the manner in which these licenses may be interpreted and enforced is therefore subject to some uncertainty.We do not rely upon the term of our customer contracts to retain the business of our customers.Our contracts with our customers are on a year-to-year or multi-year basis. Except for customers with whom we have entered into development and placement fee agreements, we do not rely upon the stated term of our customer contracts to retain the business of our customers. We rely instead upon providing competitive player terminals, games and systems to give our customers the incentive to continue doing business with us. At any point in time, a significant portion of our business is subject to nonrenewal, which may materially and adversely affect our earnings, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, certain of our customer contracts have "buy out" provisions enabling our customer to purchase machines formerly provided to them under revenue participation arrangements. To the extent our customers exercise their buy out rights pursuant to these provisions, we recognize revenue from equipment sales in the current period while losing future participation revenue from purchased machines. This could have the effect of reducing our overall future revenues from these customers and thereby adversely affect our future operating results.Our games and systems may experience loss based on malfunctions, anomalies or fraudulent activities.Our games and systems, and games and systems we license or distribute from third parties, could produce false payouts as the result of malfunctions, anomalies or fraudulent activities, which we may be required to pay. We depend on our security precautions to prevent fraud. We depend on regulatory safeguards, which may not be available in all jurisdictions or markets, to protect us against jackpots awarded as a result of malfunctions, anomalies or fraudulent activities. There can be no guarantee that regulatory safeguards, in jurisdictions or markets where they do exist, will be sufficient to protect us from liabilities associated with malfunctions, anomalies or fraudulent activities. The occurrence of malfunctions, anomalies or fraudulent activities could result in litigation against us by our customers based on lost revenue or other claims based in tort or breach of contract. Moreover, these occurrences could result in investigations or disciplinary actions by applicable gaming regulators. Additionally, in the event of such issues with our gaming devices or software, substantial engineering and marketing resources may be diverted from other areas to rectify the problem.Worsening economic conditions may adversely affect our business.The demand for entertainment and leisure activities tends to be highly sensitive to consumers' disposable incomes, and thus a decline in general economic conditions, higher levels of unemployment, weakness in the housing markets, higher consumer debt levels, declines in consumer confidence in future economic conditions, higher tax rates, higher interest rates, and other adverse economic conditions may lead to our end users having less discretionary income with which to wager. Additionally, higher airfares, gasoline prices and other costs may adversely affect the number of players visiting our customers' casinos. The gaming industry is currently experiencing a period of reduced demand. A decline in the relative health of the gaming industry and the difficulty or inability of our customers to obtain adequate levels of capital to finance their ongoing operations reduces their resources available to purchase our products and services, which adversely affects our revenues. If we experience a significant unexpected decrease in demand for our products, we could also be required to increase our inventory obsolescence charges. Additionally, a decline in general economic conditions might negatively impact our customers' abilities to pay us in a timely fashion. Our customers' failures to make timely payments could result in an increase in our provision for bad debt.Litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to legal and regulatory requirements applicable to our business and industry. We are also subject to the risk of litigation by employees, customers, our customer's customers, patent owners, competitors, suppliers, shareholders or others through 23private actions, class actions, administrative proceedings and other legal proceedings. Litigation can be lengthy, expensive, and disruptive to our operations and results cannot be predicted with certainty or, sometimes, at all. Current estimates of loss regarding pending litigation may not be reflective of any particular final outcome. The results of rulings, judgments or settlements of pending litigation may result in financial liability that is materially higher than what management has estimated at this time and we may experience adverse publicity associated with litigation, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are ultimately found liable. We make no assurances that we will not be subject to liability with respect to current or future litigation. We maintain various forms of insurance coverage; however, substantial rulings, judgments or settlements could exceed the amount of insurance coverage (or any cost allocation agreement with an insurance carrier), may not be covered under our existing insurance policies, or could be excluded under the terms of an existing insurance policy. Moreover, our failure to comply with procedural or operational requirements inherent to our policies may void coverage. Additionally, failure to secure favorable outcomes in pending litigation could result in adverse consequences to our business, operating results and/or overall financial condition, including without limitation, possible adverse effects on compliance with the terms of our Amended Credit Agreement. Casino operations are conducted at the discretion of our customers. We seek to provide assistance to our key customers in the form of project management, with a focus on facility layout and planning, gaming floor configuration and customized marketing and promotional initiatives. Our key customers, however, are solely responsible for the operations of their facilities and are not required to consult us or take our advice on their operations, marketing, facility layout, gaming floor configuration, or promotional initiatives. Further, our customers are solely responsible for safety and security at their facilities. Our customers have in the past, and will in the future, remodel and expand their facilities. To the extent that our machines are not a part of an optimized facility layout or gaming floor configuration, are not supported by effective marketing or promotional initiatives or are scheduled to be out of service during a facility remodeling, or our customers' facilities are closed or not visited because of end-users concern for safety, our operating results could suffer. Demand for our products and the level of play of our products could be adversely affected by changes in player and operator preferences.As a supplier of gaming machines, we must offer themes and products that appeal to gaming operators and players. There is constant pressure to develop and market new game content and technologically innovative products. Our revenues are dependent on the earning power and life span of our games. We therefore face continuous pressure to design and deploy new and successful game themes to maintain our revenue and remain competitive. If we are unable to anticipate or react timely to any significant changes in player preferences, such as a negative change in the trend of acceptance of our newest systems innovations or jackpot fatigue (declining play levels on smaller jackpots), the demand for our gaming products and the level of play of our gaming products could decline. Further, our products could suffer a loss of floor space to table games or other more technologically advanced games or operators may reduce revenue sharing arrangements, each of which would harm our sales and financial results. In addition, general changes in consumer behavior, such as reduced travel activity or redirection of entertainment dollars to other venues, could result in reduced demand and reduced play levels for our gaming products.The carrying value of our assets is dependent upon our ability to successfully deploy games into new or existing markets.We have gaming units not deployed as of September 30, 2011, which are considered part of our rental pool. This rental pool is available for deployment in new or existing customer facilities. If the opening of new facilities is altered negatively or the expansion, reduction or closing of an existing facility occurs, the realizable value of these assets could be adversely impacted. In such instances we may be required to recognize impairment charges on these assets.We rely on hardware, software and games licensed from third parties, and on technology provided by third-party vendors, the loss of which could materially affect our business, increase our costs and delay deployment or suspend development of our gaming systems and player terminals.We integrate various third-party software products as components of our software and rely on third-party manufacturers to manufacture our equipment. Our business could be disrupted if the manufacturers or this software or hardware, or functional equivalents of this software or hardware, were either no longer available to us or no longer offered to us on commercially reasonable terms. Acts of God, adverse weather, and shipping difficulties, particularly with respect to international third-party suppliers, could significantly delay our receipt of such components. For example, some of our suppliers are located in Japan and Thailand, both of which recently experienced natural disasters. If we are unable to obtain these items from our established third-party vendors, we could be required to either redesign our product to function with alternate third-party product, or to develop or manufacture these components ourselves, which would result in increased costs and could result in delays in our deployment of our gaming systems and player terminals. Furthermore, we might be forced to limit the features available in our current or future offerings.We rely on intellectual property licenses from one or more third-party competitors, the loss of which could materially affect our business and the sale or placement of our products. Various third-party gaming manufacturers with which we compete are much 24larger than us and have substantially larger intellectual property assets. The gaming manufacturer industry is very competitive and litigious, and a lawsuit brought by one of our larger competitors whether or not well-founded, may have a material effect on our business and our ability to sell or place our products. We rely on the content of certain software that we license from third-party vendors and often distribute and sell such software to our customers. The software could contain “open source” code, require a resale license or contain bugs that could have an impact on our business. We also rely on the technology of third-party vendors, such as telecommunication providers, to operate our nationwide broadband telecommunications network. A serious or sustained disruption of the provision of these services could result in some of our player terminals being non‑operational for the duration of the disruption, which would reduce over-all revenue from those player terminals.Failure to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA"), which prohibits improper payments or offers of improper payments to foreign officials to obtain business or any other benefit and also requires corporations covered by the provisions to make and keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect the transactions of the corporation and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls. We have operations and agreements with third parties and make sales in Mexico and Canada, and such international activities create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments in violation of the FCPA by one of the employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors of our company, because these parties are not always subject to our control, and accounting standards practiced by our agents in Mexico and in other jurisdictions in which we may operate may not always conform with U.S. GAAP. The Company has recently augmented its Foreign Corrupt Practices Compliance Policy; however, we can make no assurance that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our current international businesses and potential expansion into other international gaming markets may present new challenges and risks that could adversely affect our business or results of operations. In recent years, we have expanded our business into several countries, including Mexico, Israel, Malta, and Canada. The Maltese operations have ceased, the Israeli operations are immaterial from a financial perspective, the Canadian business has been project-oriented to date; however, we may continue to seek growth in the international market and continue to operate in the Mexican market. We now operate 3,475 units in Mexico, primarily across numerous facilities operated by one customer. Both revenue and the number of our units have recently declined in Mexico and there can be no assurances that either revenues will grow or that we will continue supplying new products to that market.International business is inherently subject to various risks, including, but not limited to:▪difficulty in enforcing agreements;▪higher operating costs due to local laws or regulations;▪unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;▪tariffs, embargoes, taxes and other trade barriers, including value added tax;▪trade barriers and disputes;▪regulations related to customs and export/import matters;▪fluctuations in foreign economies and currency exchange rates;▪longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivables;▪the complexity, expense, and necessity of using foreign representatives and consultants;▪tax uncertainties and unanticipated tax costs due to foreign taxing regimes;▪the difficulty of managing and operating an international enterprise, including difficulties in maintaining effective communications with employees and customers due to distance, language and cultural barriers;▪compliance with a variety of laws;▪social, political or economic instability;▪costs and risks of localizing products for foreign countries;▪greater difficulty in safeguarding intellectual property, licensing and other trade restrictions; repatriation of earnings;▪expropriation, nationalization and limitation or restriction on repatriation of earnings;▪recessions in foreign economies; and▪economic and geopolitical developments and conditions, including international hostilities, armed conflicts, acts of terrorism and governmental reactions, inflation, trade relationships and military and political alliances.25If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report financial results or prevent fraud.Management maintains internal operational controls and we have invested, and are continuing to invest, in technology to help us streamline our enterprise information systems. However, we may not be able to continue processing at the same or higher levels of transactions. If our systems of internal controls should fail to work as expected, if our systems were to be used in an unauthorized manner, or if employees were to subvert the system of internal controls, significant losses could occur. Additionally, we plan on moving certain of our warehouses in the coming months and any such move could cause delays and business interruption, which could affect our results of operations. We process transactions on a daily basis and are exposed to numerous types of operational risk, which could cause us to incur substantial losses. Operational risk resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, and systems includes the risk of fraud by employees or persons outside of our company, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors or omissions relating to transaction processing and systems, and breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements. This risk of loss also includes potential legal actions that could arise as a result of the operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards and such risk may be excluded under the terms of an existing insurance policy. We seek to establish and maintain systems of internal operational controls that provide management with timely and accurate information about our level of operational risk, as well as key data points, such as regional statistics. We intend that these systems will help manage operational risk at appropriate, cost effective levels. We have also established procedures that are designed to ensure that policies relating to conduct, ethics and business practices are followed. Nevertheless, we experience loss from operational risk from time to time, including the effects of operational errors, and these losses may be substantial.Effective internal controls are necessary to provide reliable financial reports and to assist in the effective prevention of fraud. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud could harm our business. We must annually evaluate our internal procedures to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires management and auditors to assess the effectiveness of internal controls. If we fail to remedy or maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties or shareholder litigation. In addition, failure to maintain adequate internal controls could result in financial statements that do not accurately reflect our financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to complete the work necessary to fully comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or that our management and our independent registered public accounting firm will continue to conclude that our internal controls are effective.Gaming laws and regulations may require our shareholders to undergo a suitability investigation, which may result in redemption of their securities.In some jurisdictions, the gaming authority may determine that any of our officers, directors, key employees, shareholders or any other person is unsuitable to act in such capacity. There can be no assurance that we will obtain all the necessary licenses and approvals or that our officers, directors, key employees, their affiliates and certain other shareholders will satisfy the suitability requirements in each jurisdiction in which we seek to operate. The failure to obtain such licenses and approvals in one jurisdiction may affect our licensure and/or approvals in other jurisdictions. In addition, a significant delay in obtaining such licenses and approvals could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects.A gaming authority may, in its discretion, require our shareholders to file applications, be investigated, and be found suitable to own our stock if it has reason to believe that the security ownership would be inconsistent with the declared policies of the regulatory body. Further, the costs of any investigation conducted by the gaming authority under these circumstances must be paid by the applicant and refusal or failure to pay these charges may constitute grounds for a finding that the applicant is unsuitable to own the securities. If the gaming authority determines that a person is unsuitable to own our stock, then, we can be sanctioned, including the loss of our approvals, if, without the prior approval of the gaming authority, we:•pay to the unsuitable person any dividend, interest or any distribution whatsoever;•recognize any voting right by the unsuitable person;•pay the unsuitable person remuneration in any form; or•make any payment to the unsuitable person including any principal, redemption, conversion, exchange or similar paymentWhile our shareholders recently approved a right to redeem shares of an unsuitable shareholder and we consequently amended our Articles of Incorporation, a finding of unsuitability could have a material adverse effect on our business. If a gaming authority was to find an officer, director or key employee unsuitable for licensing or unsuitable to continue having a relationship with us, we would have to sever all relationships with that person. Furthermore, the gaming authority may require us to terminate the 26employment of any person who refuses to file appropriate applications. Either result could materially adversely affect our gaming operations.Our share repurchase program could increase the volatility of the price of our common stock.On December 3, 2010, we announced that our Board of Directors approved a plan to repurchase up to $15 million of our outstanding common stock over the next three year period. The authorization is subject to a 10b5-1 plan, in which purchases may be made from time to time in the open market, subject to certain pricing parameters. As repurchases under the share repurchase program are subject to certain pricing parameters, there is no guarantee as to the exact number of shares that will be repurchased under the program. Repurchases of our shares will reduce the number of our outstanding common stock and might incrementally increase the potential for volatility in our common stock by reducing the potential volumes at which our common stock may trade in the public market.If our key personnel leave us or if we fail to timely hire additional skilled personnel, our business could be materially adversely affected.We depend on the continued performance of the members of our senior management team and our technology team to assist in executing our strategy. In order to retain our key personnel, we established a retention plan for calendar year 2010; however, such retention plan has elapsed and key employees may depart. If we were to lose the services of any of our senior officers, directors, or any key member of our technology team, and can not find suitable replacements for such persons in a timely manner, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Further we expect that our efforts to grow will place a significant strain on our personnel, management systems, infrastructure and other resources. Our ability to manage future growth effectively will also require us to successfully attract, train, motivate, retain and manage new employees and continue to update and improve our operational, financial and management controls and procedures.Our Amended Credit Agreement contains covenants that limit our ability to finance future operations or capital needs and to engage in other business activities. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in the Amended Credit Agreement may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. Our Amended Credit Agreement requires us to limit capital expenditures to $40 million, with a carry-over to the next fiscal year for any prior fiscal year where actual capital expenditures are less than $40 million, and requires us to maintain a total leverage ratio of no more than 1.50:1.00. While the Amended Credit Agreement is expected to lower borrowing costs, we will be required to increase our quarterly principal term loan payments to $925,000, which is substantially higher than the obligations under our Original Credit Agreement. Furthermore, our total borrowing capacity has been reduced, which may affect our ability to engage in certain business activities. In addition, the Amended Credit Agreement contains certain covenants that, among other things, restrict our and our subsidiaries’ ability to: •incur certain debt;•create certain liens;•pay dividends or make other equity distributions or payments to or affecting our subsidiaries;•make certain stock repurchases or redemptions;•make certain investments or capital expenditures;•sell or dispose of assets or engage in certain acquisitions, mergers or consolidations;•engage in certain transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates; and•enter into sale leaseback transactions.These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain future financing, make strategic acquisitions or needed capital expenditures, withstand economic downturns in our business or the economy in general, conduct operations or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may arise. A failure to comply with the restrictions contained in the Amended Credit Agreement could lead to an event of default, which could result in an acceleration of our indebtedness. Our future operating results may not be sufficient to enable compliance with the covenants in the Amended Credit Agreement or to remedy any such default. In addition, in the event of acceleration, we may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to refinance our indebtedness or make any accelerated payments. Also, we may not be able to obtain new financing. Even if we were able to obtain new financing, 27we cannot guarantee that the new financing will be on commercially reasonable terms or terms that are acceptable to us. If we default on our indebtedness, our business financial condition and results of operation could be materially and adversely affected. Our financial results vary from quarter to quarter, which could negatively impact our business. Various factors affect our quarterly operating results, some of which are not within our control. These factors include, among others:▪the financial strength of the gaming industry;▪consumers' willingness to spend money on leisure activities;▪an outbreak of a communicable disease;▪the timing and introduction of new products and services;▪the mix of products and services sold;▪the timing of significant orders from and shipments to customers;▪product and service pricing and discounts; ▪the timing of acquisitions of other companies and businesses or dispositions; and▪unforeseen regulatory or other legal developments affecting us or our customers.If we fail to effectively manage our business, this could adversely affect our results of operations. If our operating results fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the price of our common stock may decline. Any material change to our operating cash flow or a significant increase in our indebtedness could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, and business generally.Future revenue may not be sufficient to meet operating, product development and other cash flow requirements. Sufficient funds to service our debt and maintain new product development efforts and expected levels of operations may not be available, and additional capital, if and when needed by us, may not be available on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot obtain sufficient capital on acceptable terms when needed, we may not be able to carry out our planned product development efforts and level of operations, which could harm our business. We could be required to incur additional indebtedness. Should we incur additional debt, among other things, such increased indebtedness could: •adversely affect our ability to expand our business, market our products and make investments and capital expenditures;•adversely affect the cost and availability of funds from commercial lenders, debt financing transactions and other sources; and •create competitive disadvantages compared to other companies with lower debt levels•adversely affect our ability to meet our fixed charge obligations or our debt service payments.Adverse decisions of tax authorities or changes in tax laws, rules or interpretations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. There may be changes in interpretation and enforcement of tax law. As a result, we may face increases in taxes payable if tax laws, regulations or treaties in the jurisdictions in which we operate are modified by the competent authorities in an adverse manner. In addition, various international, national, state, and local taxing authorities periodically examine us and our subsidiaries. The resolution of an examination or audit may result in us making a payment in an amount that differs from the amount for which we may have reserved with respect to any particular tax matter, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, business, financial condition and results of operations for any affected reporting period.We and our subsidiaries are engaged in certain intercompany transactions. Although we believe that these transactions reflect arm’s length terms and that proper transfer pricing documentation is in place which should be respected for tax purposes, the transfer prices and conditions may be scrutinized by local tax authorities, which could result in additional taxes becoming due.If we are unable to provide satisfactory customer service, we could lose customers. Our ability to provide satisfactory levels of customer service depends, to a large degree, on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our customer service operations and training programs. Any material disruption or slowdown in our support systems or inadequate 28training could make it difficult or impossible to provide adequate customer service and support. If we are unable to continually provide adequate staffing and training for our customer service operations, our reputation could be harmed and we could lose customers. Because our success depends in large part on keeping our customers satisfied, any failure to provide high levels of customer service would likely impair our reputation and decrease our revenues.Furthermore, if we do not meet contract deadlines or specifications, we may need to renegotiate contracts on less favorable terms, be forced to pay penalties or liquidated damages or suffer major losses if the customer exercises its right to terminate. In addition, if we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts we may not realize their full benefits. For example, our agreement with the New York State Division of the Lottery permits termination of the contract at any time for failure by us or our system to perform properly, and any such unforeseen downtime could subject us to liquidated damages. Failure to perform under our contracts could result in substantial monetary damages, as well as contract termination. Our results of operations are dependent on our ability to maximize our earnings from our contracts.Any unauthorized, and potentially improper, actions of our personnel could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The recognition of our revenue depends on, among other things, the terms negotiated in our contracts with our customers. Our personnel may act outside of their authority and negotiate additional terms without our knowledge. We discourage such conduct, but there can be no assurance that our policy will be followed. For instance, in the event that our sales personnel negotiate terms that do not appear in the contract and of which we are unaware, whether the additional terms are written or verbal, we could be prevented from recognizing revenue in accordance with our plans. Furthermore, depending on when we learn of unauthorized actions and the size of transactions involved, we may have to restate revenue for a previously reported period, which would seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, certain of our customers and third-party testing laboratories have policies and procedures in place regarding the shipment and installation of our products. If such policies and procedures are not properly complied with by our personnel, we may experience a delay in installation, which could result in a loss of revenue, penalties, fines or fees, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.Our business prospects and future success rely heavily upon the integrity of our employees and executives and the security of our gaming systems.The integrity and security of our gaming systems are critical to our ability to attract customers and players. We strive to set exacting standards of personal integrity for our employees and for system security involving the gaming systems that we provide to our customers. Our reputation in this regard is an important factor in our business dealings with our current and potential customers as well as licensing boards. For this reason, an allegation or a finding of improper conduct on our part or on the part of one or more of our employees that is attributable to us, or of an actual or alleged system security defect or failure attributable to us, could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results and prospects, including our ability to retain existing contracts or obtain new or renewed contracts.Any disruption in our network or telecommunications services, adverse weather conditions or other catastrophic events in the areas in which we operate could affect our ability to operate our games, which would result in reduced revenues and customer down time.Our network is susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, break-ins, cyberattacks and similar events. We have multiple site back‑up for our services in the event of any such occurrence. Despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses and break-ins. Similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems in any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Portions of our gaming network are often integrated with our customers' networks, which are outside of our control, but could affect our own network. In addition, there is a risk that our customers’ house networks could be compromised, which could impact our customers' operations, and their revenues, which could conversely adversely affect our own revenue. Adverse weather conditions, particularly flooding, tornadoes, heavy snowfall and other extreme weather conditions often deter our customer's end users from traveling, or make it difficult for them to frequent the sites where our games are installed. If any of those sites experienced prolonged adverse weather conditions, or if the sites in Oklahoma, where a significant number of our games are installed, simultaneously experienced adverse weather conditions, our results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected.We are parties to certain agreements that could require us to pay damages resulting from loss of revenues if our systems are not properly functioning, or as a result of a system malfunction or an inaccurate pay table. In addition, our agreement with the New York State Division of the Lottery permits termination of the contract at any time for failure by us or our system to perform 29properly. If we do not meet contract deadlines or specifications, we may need to renegotiate contracts on less favorable terms, be forced to pay penalties or liquidated damages, or suffer major losses if the customer exercises its right to terminate. In addition, if we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts we may not realize their full benefits. Failure to perform under any contract could result in substantial monetary damages, as well as contract termination. Our results of operations are dependent on our ability to maximize our earnings from our contracts.The ability of the Board of Directors to issue preferred stock, anti-takeover provisions of Texas law, our governing documents, and the requirement to obtain prior approval by gaming authorities in the jurisdictions that we operate could discourage a merger or other type of corporate reorganization or a change in control even if it could be favorable to the interests of our shareholders. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the terms of such preferred stock without shareholder approval. While we currently do not have any preferred stock issued and our Board of Directors has no current plans, agreements or commitments to issue any shares of preferred stock, the issuance of such preferred stock may delay, defer or prevent a change in control because the terms of any issued preferred stock could potentially prohibit our consummation of any acquisition, reorganization, sale of substantially all of our assets, liquidation or other extraordinary corporate transaction. In addition, the issuance of preferred stock could have a dilutive effect on our shareholders and affect the price of our common stock. Changes in the control of the company through merger, consolidation, equity or asset acquisitions, management or consulting agreements, or any act or conduct by a person whereby that person obtains control, may not occur without the prior approval of certain gaming commissions in the jurisdictions that we operate. Such commissions may also require the equity holders, officers, directors and other persons having a material relationship or involvement with the entity proposing to acquire control, to be investigated, found suitable and licensed as part of the approval process relating to the transaction. Such requirement to be found suitable to hold our voting securities may discourage or delay change of control transactions.Other provisions of Texas law and our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control or acquisition, whether by means of a tender offer, business combination, proxy contest, or otherwise. Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws include purported limits on shareholder action by written consent in lieu of a meeting and certain procedural requirements governing the nomination of directors by shareholders and shareholder meetings. These provisions could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control.We are subject to complex and dynamic revenue recognition standards, which could materially affect our financial results.As we introduce new products and transactions become increasingly complex, additional analysis and judgment is required to account for and recognize revenues in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Transactions may include multiple element arrangements and/or software components and applicable accounting principles could further change the timing of revenue recognition and could adversely affect our financial results for any given period. Fluctuations may occur in our deferred revenues and reflect our continued shift toward more multiple element contracts that include systems and software.ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None.30