D. Risk Factors. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be seriously harmed due to any of the following risks, among others. If we do not successfully address the risks to which we are subject, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected and our share price may decline. Risks Related to Our Business We depend on large orders from a relatively small number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues. As a result, our revenues and operating results may vary from quarter to quarter. We receive large orders from a relatively small number of customers and our revenues and operating results are subject to substantial periodic variations. Individual orders from customers can represent a substantial portion of our revenues in any one period and significant orders by a customer during one period may not be followed by further orders from the same customer in subsequent periods. As a result, our revenues and operating results for a specific quarter may not be indicative of our future performance and quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful, making it difficult for investors to evaluate our future prospects based on the results of any quarter. 2 In addition, we have a limited order backlog, which makes revenues in any quarter substantially dependent upon orders we deliver in that quarter. Our revenues depend on government procurement procedures and practices. A substantial decrease in our customers’ budgets would adversely affect our results of operations. Our products are primarily sold to governmental agencies, governmental authorities and government-owned companies, many of which have complex and time-consuming procurement procedures. A substantial period of time often elapses from the time we begin marketing a product until we actually sell that product to a particular customer. In addition, our sales to governmental agencies, authorities and companies are directly affected by these customers’ budgetary constraints and the priority given in their budgets to the procurement of our products. A decrease in governmental funding for our customers’ budgets would adversely affect our results of operations. The loss of one or more of our key customers, in particular the Israeli Ministry of Defense, would result in a loss of a significant amount of our revenues. A relatively few customers account for a large percentage of our revenues. For the years ended December 31, 2004, 2005 and 2006, revenues generated from sales to the Israeli Ministry of Defense, or MOD, accounted for 7.8%, 23.9% and 33.7%, respectively, of our revenues. The loss of the MOD as a customer without replacement by a customer or customers of similar volume would have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We have initiated an arbitration proceeding against a customer in Eastern Europe to recover funds payable to us under the terms of a turnkey project. In the event we are unsuccessful in this arbitration, our financial results will be adversely affected. In May 2005 we entered into an agreement to supply comprehensive security solutions for a sensitive site in Eastern Europe. As part of the agreement, we received an advance payment, secured by a bank advanced payment guarantee that was to be reduced proportionally as execution of the project progressed. In addition, we issued the customer a performance bank guarantee. We commenced the project and delivered some of the equipment and other deliverables to the customer in 2005. In April 2006, the customer informed us that it was canceling the agreement due to errors in the design documents that we submitted. In addition, the customer did not make payments required under the agreement. Based on its cancellation of the agreement, the customer collected $3.2 million under the advanced payment guarantee on June 20, 2006. Due to this uncertainty, we did not recognize any revenues from this project. On July 11, 2006 the customer made a demand for additional $1.4 million payment under a bank performance guarantee for. Upon our motion, the District Court in Haifa, Israel issued a temporary injunction against the payment of such guarantee pending a hearing in August 2006. At the hearing, we reached a settlement with the customer pursuant to which we paid the customer approximately $700,000 of the disputed amount and the balance will be repaid only if we are found liable for damages exceeding the amount paid by us. In view of the above and due to the uncertainty of our preventing the forfeiture of the bank performance guarantee, we included a $1.4 million provision in respect of this guarantee in our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005. Based on the settlement, we cancelled the balance of the provision made in our financial statements in 2006. In the event we will be unsuccessful in the arbitration, we may be required to record an expense of $700,000 if the customer will be allowed to enforce the bank performance guarantee. 3 We believe that there is no factual or legal ground for the cancellation of the agreement or the demand for payment under the bank performance guarantee, and accordingly, we believe that the agreement is still valid. On April 28, 2006, we commenced arbitration proceedings against the customer. In these proceedings we asked the arbitrators to find that the agreement is valid and to enforce the payments due to us pursuant to the agreement. The customer denied our allegations and filed a counter-claim for liquidated damages in a foreign currency which on December 31, 2006 was equal to approximately $4.5 million. The hearing of the arbitration proceeding has concluded and is pending resolution by the arbitration panel. Based on the opinion of our legal counsel, we believe that there is a good likelihood that the arbitration will result in a favorable determination. We intend to vigorously pursue our claim. However, we may not be successful in the arbitration, which may result in a significant negative impact on our financial results including the payment of penalties. The level of our contracts may be reduced in the future due to changes in governmental priorities and audits. Governmental purchases of our systems, products and services may decline in the future as the governmental purchasing agencies may terminate, reduce or modify contracts or subcontracts if: — Their requirements or budgetary constraints change; — they cancel multi-year contracts and related orders if funds become unavailable; — they shift spending priorities into other areas or for other products; and — they adjust contract costs and fees on the basis of audits. Any such event may have a material adverse affect on us. If we do not receive MOD approvals necessary for us to export the products we produce in Israel, our revenues may decrease. Under Israeli law, the export of products that we manufacture in Israel and the export of certain of our know-how are subject to approval by the MOD. We must obtain permits from the MOD to initiate sales proposals with regard to these exports, as well as for actual export transactions. We may not be able to receive all the required permits for which we may apply in the future. If we do not receive the required permits for which we apply, our revenues may decrease. Our wholly-owned subsidiary, Smart Interactive Systems, Inc., may never achieve a profit. If Smart continues to incur losses, our future results of operations will be adversely affected. In 2001, we established Smart Interactive Systems, Inc., or Smart, to meet the growing demand for real-time video monitoring services for use in industrial sites, commercial businesses and VIP residences. We have invested $15.5million in Smart through December 31, 2006. Smart’s operations to date have not been profitable, and Smart has an accumulated deficit of $7.8million as of December 31, 2006. If Smart is unable to market its services successfully or if its services fail to penetrate the market, we may lose our investment in this company and our future results of operations will be adversely affected. 4 The market for our products is characterized by changing technology, requirements, standards and products, and we may be adversely affected if we do not respond promptly and effectively to these changes. The market for our products is characterized by evolving technologies, changing industry standards, changing regulatory environments, frequent new product introductions and rapid changes in customer requirements. The introduction of products embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and practices can render existing products obsolete and unmarketable. Our future success will depend on our ability to enhance our existing products and to develop and introduce, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new products and product features that keep pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards and address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers. In the future: — we may not be successful in developing and marketing new products or product features that respond to technological change or evolving industry standards; — we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these new products and features; or — our new products and product features may not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. If we are unable to respond promptly and effectively to changing technology, we will be unable to compete effectively in the future. We face risks associated with doing business in international markets. A large portion of our sales is to markets outside of Israel (68.5% of our sales in 2005 and 60.6% of our sales in 2006), and a key component of our strategy is to continue to expand in such markets, the most significant of which currently are North America, Europe, and Asia. Our international sales efforts are affected by costs associated with the shipping of our products and risks inherent in doing business in international markets, including: — unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; — currency fluctuations; — export restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers; — unexpected difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; — longer payment cycles; — difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; — political instability; and — seasonal reductions in business activities. One or more of such factors may have a material adverse effect on us. We may be adversely affected by our long sales cycles. We have in the past and expect in the future to experience long time periods between initial sales contacts and the execution of formal contracts for our products and completion of product installations. The cycle from first contact to revenue generation in our business involves, among other things, selling the concept of our technology and products, developing and implementing a pilot program to demonstrate the capabilities and accuracy of our products, negotiating prices and other contract terms, and, finally, installing and implementing our products on a full-scale basis. This cycle entails a substantial period of time, sometimes as much as one or more years, and the lack of revenues during this cycle and the expenses involved in bringing new sales to the point of revenue generation may put a substantial strain on our resources. 5 We may not be able to implement our growth strategy. As part of our growth strategy, we seek to acquire or invest in complementary, including competitive, businesses, products and technologies. We currently have no commitments or agreements with respect to any acquisitions or investments and we may not be able to consummate any acquisition or investment. Even if we do acquire or invest in these businesses, products or technology, the process of integrating acquired assets into our operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and may absorb significant management attention that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development of our business. In addition, we have limited experience in making acquisitions and managing growth. We may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition. Moreover, future acquisitions by us could result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and amortization expenses related to identifiable intangible assets, any of which could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial position. Acquisitions also involve other risks, including risks inherent in entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience and the potential loss of key employees and the risk that we may experience difficulty or delays in obtaining necessary permits. We may not be able to protect our proprietary technology and unauthorized use of our proprietary technology by third parties may impair our ability to compete effectively. Our success and ability to compete depend in large part upon protecting our proprietary technology. We have approximately 46 patents and have patent applications pending. We also rely on a combination of trade secret and copyright law and confidentiality, non-disclosure and assignment-of-inventions agreements to protect our proprietary technology. It is our policy to protect our proprietary rights in our products and operations through contractual obligations, including confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with certain employees, distributors and agents, suppliers and subcontractors. These measures may not be adequate to protect our technology from third-party infringement, and our competitors may independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. Additionally, our products may be sold in foreign countries that provide less protection to intellectual property than that provided under U.S. or Israeli laws. We could become subject to litigation regarding intellectual property rights, which could seriously harm our business. Third parties may in the future assert against us infringement claims or claims asserting that we have violated a patent or infringed upon a copyright, trademark or other proprietary right belonging to them. In addition, we purchase components for our turnkey products from independent suppliers. Certain of these components contain proprietary intellectual property of these independent suppliers. Third parties may in the future assert claims against our suppliers that such suppliers have violated a patent or infringed upon a copyright, trademark or other proprietary right belonging to them. If such infringement by our suppliers or us were found to exist, a party could seek an injunction preventing the use of their intellectual property. In addition, if an infringement by us were found to exist, we may attempt to acquire a license or right to use such technology or intellectual property. Any infringement claim, even if not meritorious, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. 6 We depend on limited sources for components, and if we are unable to obtain these components when needed, we will experience delays in manufacturing our products and our financial results may be adversely affected. We acquire most of the components utilized in our products, including, but not limited to, our turnkey products and certain services from a limited number of suppliers and subcontractors. We may not be able to obtain such items from these suppliers and subcontractors on satisfactory terms in the future. Temporary disruptions of our manufacturing operations would result if we were required to obtain materials from alternative sources, which may have an adverse effect on our financial results. Undetected defects in our products may increase our costs and impair the market acceptance of our products. The development, enhancement and implementation of our complex systems entail substantial risks of product defects or failures. Despite testing by us and our customers, errors may be found in existing or new products, resulting in delay or loss of revenues, warranty expense, loss of market share or failure to achieve market acceptance, or otherwise adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, the complexities involved in implementing our systems entail additional risks of performance failures. We may encounter substantial delays or other difficulties due to such complexities. Any such occurrence could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the potential harm to our reputation that may result from product defects or implementation errors could be damaging to us. We depend on our senior management and key personnel, particularly Izhar Dekel, our president and chief executive officer, and his loss would negatively affect our business. Our future success depends in large part on the continued services of our senior management and key personnel. In particular, we depend on the services of Mr. Dekel, our president and chief executive officer. We carry key person life insurance for Mr. Dekel. Any loss of the services of Izhar Dekel, other members of senior management or other key personnel would negatively affect our business. Our failure to retain and attract personnel could harm our business, operations and product development efforts. Our products require sophisticated research and development, marketing and sales and technical customer support. Our success depends on our ability to attract, train and retain qualified research and development, marketing and sales and technical customer support personnel. Competition for personnel in all of these areas is intense and we may not be able to hire sufficient personnel to achieve our goals or support the anticipated growth in our business. If we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business, operations and product development efforts would suffer. 7 Risks Relating to Our Ordinary Shares Volatility of the market price of our ordinary shares could adversely affect our shareholders and us. The market price of our ordinary shares has been, and is likely to be, highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, including the following: — political, economic and other developments in the State of Israel; — terrorist attacks and other acts of war, and any response to them; — actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results or those of our competitors; — announcements by us or our competitors of technological innovations or new and enhanced products; — developments or disputes concerning proprietary rights; — introduction and adoption of new industry standards; — changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; — market conditions or trends in our industry; — changes in the market valuations of our competitors; — announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions; — entry into strategic partnerships or joint ventures by us or our competitors; and — additions or departures of key personnel. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for Israeli companies and home defense companies in particular, has been highly volatile. Many of these factors are beyond our control and may materially adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our performance. Risks Relating to Our Location in Israel Conducting business in Israel entails special risks. We are incorporated under Israeli law and our principal offices and manufacturing and research and development facilities are located in the State of Israel. Accordingly, we are directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel. Specifically, we could be adversely affected by any major hostilities involving Israel, a full or partial mobilization of the reserve forces of the Israeli army, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, and a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors, and a state of hostility, varying from time to time in intensity and degree, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Although Israel has entered into various agreements with Egypt, Jordan and the Palestinian Authority, there has been an increase in unrest and terrorist activity in Israel, which began in September 2000 and which has continued with varying levels of severity through 2006. In July 2006, an armed conflict began between Israel and Hezbollah forces in Lebanon, which involved rocket attacks on populated areas in the northern parts of Israel. On August 14, 2006, a cease-fire between Hezbollah and Israel took effect. This situation has had an adverse effect on Israel’s economy, primarily in the geographical areas directly harmed by this conflict. Any future armed conflict, political instability or violence in the region may have a negative effect on our business condition, harm our results of operations and adversely affect our share price. No predictions can be made as to whether or when a final resolution of the area’s problems will be achieved or the nature thereof and to what extent the situation will impact Israel’s economic development or our operations. 8 Furthermore, there are a number of countries, primarily in the Middle East, as well as Malaysia and Indonesia, that restrict business with Israel or Israeli companies, and we are precluded from marketing our products to these countries. Restrictive laws or policies directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses may have an adverse impact on our operations, our financial results or the expansion of our business. Our results of operations may be negatively affected by the obligation of our personnel to perform military service. Many of our executive officers and employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israeli Defense Forces, or IDF, and are subject to being called for active duty under emergency circumstances at any time. If a military conflict or war arises, these individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or key employees or a significant number of other employees due to military service. Any disruption in our operations could adversely affect our business. We may be adversely affected by a change in the exchange rate of the New Israeli Shekel against the dollar. Because exchange rates between the NIS, our functional currency, and the dollar fluctuate continuously, exchange rate fluctuations, particularly larger periodic devaluations, may have an impact on our profitability and period-to-period comparisons of our results. In 2002 and 2005 the rate of devaluation of the NIS against the dollar was 7.3% and 6.8% respectively, while in 2003, 2004 and 2006 the NIS appreciated in value in relation to the dollar by 7.6% 1.6% and 8.2%, respectively. A portion of our expenses, primarily labor expenses, is incurred in NIS and a part of our revenues are quoted in NIS. Additionally, certain assets, as well as a portion of our liabilities, are denominated in NIS. Our results may be adversely affected by the devaluation of the NIS in relation to the dollar (or if such devaluation is on lagging basis), if our revenues in NIS are higher than our expenses in NIS and/or the amount of our assets in NIS are higher than our liabilities in NIS. Alternatively, our results may be adversely affected by an appreciation of the NIS in relation to the dollar (or if such appreciation is on a lagging basis), if the amount of our expenses in NIS are higher than the amount of our revenues in NIS and/or the amount of our liabilities in NIS are higher than our assets in NIS. We currently benefit from government programs and tax benefits that may be discontinued or reduced. We currently receive grants and tax benefits under Israeli government programs, we must continue to meet specified conditions, including, but not limited to, making specified investments from our equity in fixed assets and paying royalties with respect to grants received. In addition, some of these programs restrict our ability to manufacture particular products or transfer particular technology outside of Israel. If we fail to comply with these conditions in the future, the benefits we receive could be canceled and we could be required to refund any payments previously received under these programs, including any accrued interest, or pay increased taxes or royalties. The Israeli government has reduced the benefits available under these programs in recent years and these programs and benefits may be discontinued or curtailed in the future. If the Israeli government ends these programs and benefits, our business, financial condition, results of operations and net income could be materially adversely affected. 9 The tax benefits that we currently receive from our approved enterprise programs require us to satisfy specified conditions. If we fail to satisfy these conditions, we may be required to pay additional taxes and would likely be denied these benefits in the future. We have been granted the status of an “approved enterprise” for certain of our manufacturing facilities. Starting from when we begin to generate net income from these approved enterprise programs, any portion of our income derived from these approved enterprise programs will be exempt from tax for a period of two years and will be subject to a reduced tax for an additional five to eight years, depending on the percentage of our share capital held by non-Israeli residents. The benefits available to our approved enterprise programs are dependent upon the fulfillment of conditions stipulated in applicable law and in each program’s certificate of approval. If we fail to comply with these conditions, in whole or in part, we may be required to pay additional taxes and interest for the period in which we benefited from the tax exemption or reduced tax rates and would likely be denied these benefits in the future. Your rights and responsibilities as a shareholder will be governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. We are incorporated under Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of holders of our ordinary shares are governed by our memorandum of association, articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. In particular, shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith in exercising his or her rights and fulfilling his or her obligations toward the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. Israeli law provides that these duties are applicable in shareholder votes on, among other things, amendments to a company’s articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers and interested party transactions requiring shareholder approval. In addition, a controlling shareholder of an Israeli company or a shareholder who knows that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholder vote or who has the power to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or executive officer in the company has a duty of fairness toward the company. However, Israeli law does not define the substance of this duty of fairness. Because Israeli corporate law has undergone extensive revision in recent years, there is little case law available to assist in understanding the implications of these provisions that govern shareholder behavior. It may be difficult to enforce a non-Israeli judgment against us, our officers and directors. All of our executive officers and directors are nonresidents of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult for an investor, or any other person or entity, to enforce against us or any of those persons in an Israeli court a U.S. court judgment based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. It may also be difficult to effect service of process on these persons in the United States. Additionally, it may be difficult for an investor, or any other person or entity, to enforce civil liabilities under U.S. federal securities laws in original actions filed in Israel. 10 As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, we may follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules. A foreign private issuer that elects to follow a home country practice instead of such requirements must submit to NASDAQ in advance a written statement from an independent counsel in such issuer’s home country certifying that the issuer’s practices are not prohibited by the home country’s laws. In addition, a foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission each such requirement that it does not follow and describe the home country practice followed by the issuer instead of any such requirement. As a foreign private issuer listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, we may follow home country practice with regard to, among other things, composition of the board of directors, director nomination procedure, compensation of officers, and quorum at shareholders’ meetings. In addition, we may follow our home country law, instead of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules, which require that we obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events, such as for the establishment or amendment of certain equity based compensation plans, an issuance that will result in a change of control of the company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in the company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company. 