Item 1A. Risk Factors We have a history of losses since inception and if we continue to incur losses the price of our shares can be expected to fall. We have experienced losses since inception. We expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future as we expend substantial resources on sales, marketing, and research and development of our products. From our inception through June 30, 2006, our cumulative losses are approximately $128 million. For our fiscal years ended June 30, 2004, 2005 and 2006, we have incurred net losses of $21,426,178, $15,499,190, and $14,847,076, respectively. If we continue to incur losses, the price of our common stock can be expected to fall. Our existence is dependent on our ability to raise capital that may not be available. There is currently limited experience upon which to assume that our business will prove financially profitable or generate sufficient revenues to cover our expenses. From inception, we have generated funds primarily through the sale of securities. Although we believe that we have adequate existing resources to provide for our funding requirements through at least June 30, 2007, there can be no assurances that we will be able to continue to generate sufficient funds thereafter. We expect to raise funds in the future through sales of our debt or equity securities until such time, if ever, as we are able to operate profitably. During the year ended June 30, 2006, cash used in operating activities was approximately $924,000 per month. Using the actual cash requirements for the prior fiscal year for estimating cash requirements for the entire year ending June 30, 2006 (which assumes a static level of revenues), cash requirements for fiscal year 2007, including requirements for capital expenditures and repayments of long-term debt, would be approximately $11,600,000. Subsequent to June 30, 2007, our inability to obtain needed funding can be expected to have a material adverse effect on our operations and our ability to achieve profitability. If we fail to generate increased revenues or fail to sell additional securities you may lose all or a substantial portion of your investment. We received an opinion from our auditor which raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our auditors, Goldstein Golub Kessler LLP, have included an explanatory paragraph in their report on our June 30, 2006 consolidated financial statements indicating that as of June 30, 2006, there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We will require additional funds in the future, and there can be no assurance that any independent auditors` report on our future financial statements will not include a similar explanatory paragraph if we are unable to raise sufficient funds or generate sufficient cash from operations to cover the cost of our operations. The existence of the explanatory paragraph may adversely affect our relationship with prospective customers, suppliers and potential investors, and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on our key personnel and if they would leave us, our business could be adversely affected. We are dependent on key management personnel, particularly the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, George R. Jensen, Jr. The loss of services of Mr. Jensen or other executive officers would dramatically affect our business prospects. Certain of our employees are particularly valuable to us because: o they have specialized knowledge about our company and operations; o they have specialized skills that are important to our operations; or o they would be particularly difficult to replace. We have entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Jensen that expires in June 30, 2009. We have also entered into employment agreements with other executive officers, each of which contain non-compete agreements. We have obtained a key man life insurance policy in the amount of $2,000,000 on Mr. Jensen and a key man life insurance policy in the amount of $1,000,000 on our President, Stephen P. Herbert. We do not have and do not intend to obtain key man life insurance coverage on any of our other executive officers. As a result, we are exposed to the costs associated with the death of these key employees. 13 USA's dependence on proprietary technology and limited ability to protect our intellectual property may adversely affect our ability to compete. A successful challenge to our ownership of our technology could materially damage our business prospects. Our technology may infringe upon the proprietary rights of others. Our success is dependent in part on our ability to obtain patent protection for our proprietary products, maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. Through August 31, 2006, we have 29 pending patent applications, and intend to file applications for additional patents covering our future products, although there can be no assurance that we will do so. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will maintain or prosecute these applications. The United States Government and other countries have granted us 64 patents as of August 31, 2006. There can be no assurance that: o any of the remaining patent applications will be granted to us; o we will develop additional products that are patentable or do not infringe the patents of others; o any patents issued to us will provide us with any competitive advantages or adequate protection for our products; o any patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others; or o any of our products would not infringe the patents of others. If any of the products are found to have infringed any patent, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain licenses to continue to manufacture and license such product or that we will not have to pay damages as a result of such infringement. Even if a patent application is granted for any of our products, there can be no assurance that the patented technology will be a commercial success or result in any profits to us. Competition from others with greater resources could prevent USA from increasing revenue and achieving profitability. Competition from other companies that are well established and have substantially greater resources may reduce our profitability. Many of our competitors have established reputations for success in the development, sale and service of high quality products. We face competition from the following groups: o companies offering automated, credit card activated control systems in connection with facsimile machines, personal computers, debit card purchase/revalue stations, and use of the Internet and e-mail which directly compete with our products; o companies which have developed unattended, credit card activated control systems currently used in connection with public telephones, prepaid telephone cards, gasoline dispensing machines, or vending machines and are capable of developing control systems in direct competition with USA; and o businesses which provide access to the Internet and personal computers to hotel guests. Although these services are not credit card activated, such services would compete with USA's Business Express(R). Competition may result in lower profit margins on our products or may reduce potential profits or result in a loss of some or all of our customer base. To the extent that our competitors are able to offer more attractive technology, our ability to compete could be adversely affected. 14 The termination of any of our relationships with third parties upon whom we rely for supplies and services that are critical to our products could adversely affect our business and delay achievement of our business plan. We depend on arrangements with third parties for a variety of component parts used in our products. We have contracted with Masterwork Electronics to assist us to develop and manufacture our e-Port(R) products and with various sources to manufacture our energy miser products. For other components, we do not have supply contracts with any of our third-party suppliers and we purchase components as needed from time to time. We have contracted with IBM to host our network in a secure, 24/7 environment to ensure reliability of our network services. If these business relationships are terminated, the implementation of our business plan may be delayed until an alternative supplier or service provider can be retained. If we are unable to find another source or one that is comparable, the content and quality of our products could suffer and our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Our reliance on our telecommunication service provider exposes us to a number of risks over which we have no control, including risks with respect to increased prices and termination of essential services. The operation of our network depends upon the capacity, reliability and security of services provided to us by our telecommunication services provider, Cingular. We have no control over the operation, quality or maintenance of these services or whether the vendor will improve its services or continue to provide services that are essential to our business. In addition, our telecommunication services provider may increase its prices at which it provides services, which would increase our costs. If our telecommunication services provider were to cease to provide essential services or to significantly increase its prices, we could be required to find alternative vendors for these services. With a limited number of vendors, we could experience significant delays in obtaining new or replacement services, which could lead to slowdowns or failures of our network. In addition, we may have to replace our existing e-Port devices that are already installed in the marketplace. This could significantly harm our reputation and could cause us to lose customers and revenues. We may not be able to adapt to changing technology and our customers’ technology needs. We face rapidly changing technology and frequent new service offerings by competitors that can render existing services obsolete or unmarketable. Our future success depends on our ability to enhance existing services and to develop, introduce and market, on a timely and cost effective basis, new services that keep pace with technological developments and customer requirements. We do not expect to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future and therefore investors should not anticipate cash dividends on their investment. The holders of our common stock and series A preferred stock are entitled to receive dividends when, and if, declared by our board of directors. Our board of directors does not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future, but instead intends to retain any and all earnings to finance the growth of the business. To date, we have not paid any cash dividends on the common stock or series A preferred stock and there can be no assurance that cash dividends will ever be paid on the common stock. In addition, our articles of incorporation prohibit the declaration of any dividends on the Common Stock unless and until all unpaid and accumulated dividends on the Series A preferred stock have been declared and paid. Through June 30, 2006, the unpaid and cumulative dividends on the series A preferred stock equal $8,226,261. The unpaid and cumulative dividends on the series A preferred stock are convertible into shares of common stock at the rate of $1000 per share at the option of the shareholder. Through June 30, 2006, $2,702,764 of unpaid and cumulative dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock were converted into 2,903 shares of common stock. 15 Our products may fail to gain widespread market. As a result, we may not generate sufficient revenues or profit margins to become successful. There can be no assurance that demand for our products will be sufficient to enable us to become profitable. Likewise, no assurance can be given that we will be able to install the TransActs and e-Ports at enough locations or sell equipment utilizing our network or our energy management products to enough locations to achieve significant revenues or that our operations can be conducted profitably. Alternatively, the locations which would utilize the network may not be successful locations and our revenues would be adversely affected. We may in the future lose locations utilizing our products to competitors, or may not be able to install our products at competitors’ locations. In addition, there can be no assurance that our products could evolve or be improved to meet the future needs of the market place. The lack of an established trading market may make it difficult to transfer our stock and you may not be able to sell your shares on our trading market. Our Common Stock is traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. Although there is limited trading in the Common Stock, there is no established trading market. Until there is an established trading market, holders of the common stock may find it difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations for the price of the common stock. The substantial market overhang of our shares will tend to depress the market price of our shares. The substantial number of our shares currently eligible for sale in the open market will tend to depress the market price of our shares. As of June 30, 2006, these shares consisted of the following: - 6,327,175 shares of Common Stock - 5,215 shares of Preferred Stock - 8,226 shares issuable upon conversion of the accrued and unpaid dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock - 398,414 shares underlying Common Stock options and warrants - 140,000 shares issuable to Mr. Jensen, our Chief Executive Officer, under his employment agreement upon the occurrence of a USA Transaction - 669,635 shares underlying our Convertible Senior Notes - 715,571 shares issuable under the 2006 Common Stock Agreement with Steve Illes; and - 16,587 shares issuable under our 2006-A Stock Compensation Plan. 16 Sales of shares eligible for future sale from exercise of warrants and options and our 2006 Common Stock Agreement could depress the market price of our common stock. As of June 30, 2006, we had issued and outstanding options to purchase 178,933 shares of our common stock, warrants to purchase 219,481 shares, and 715,571 shares eligible for sale under our 2006 Common Stock Agreement. The shares underlying 78,933 of these options, all of these warrants, and all of the shares underlying the 2006 Common Stock Agreement have been registered and may be freely sold upon issuance. Market sales of large amounts of our common stock, or the potential for those sales even if they do not actually occur, may have the effect of depressing the market price of our common stock. In addition, if our future financing needs require us to issue additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into common stock, or the increase of the number of shares eligible for sale to Mr. Illes under our agreements with him, the supply of common stock available for resale could be increased which could stimulate trading activity and cause the market price of our common stock to drop, even if our business is doing well. We are obligated to make substantial principal and interest payments to the holders of the Senior Notes for which funds may not be available or would use our available working capital. As of June 30, 2006, we had $320,000 of unsecured senior notes due on June 30, 2009, $983,826 of unsecured senior notes due on June 30, 2007, $2,962,516 of unsecured senior notes due on December 31, 2007, $2,096,919 of unsecured senior notes due on December 31, 2008, $1,520,000 of unsecured senior notes due on December 31, 2009, and $2,012,000 of unsecured senior notes due on December 31, 2010. These notes accrue cash interest at the rate of twelve percent (12%) per year with the exception of the notes due June 30, 2007, December 31, 2010 and $181,611 of the December 31, 2008 notes, which accrue cash interest at the rate of ten percent (10%) per year. We are required to make quarterly interest payments totaling approximately $281,000 or $1,124,000 each year. Until the Senior Notes have been paid by us, they will be reflected as a liability on our financial statements, net of the related unamortized discount and other issuance costs. Our ability to satisfy the debt obligations is dependent on our future performance, the success of our product lines and on our ability to raise capital. Our performance is also subject to financial, business and market factors affecting our business and operations. We anticipate that the Senior Notes will either be converted into Common Stock or be paid from cash generated from operations, as well as proceeds from securities offerings. However, there can be no assurance that we will meet our obligations to pay quarterly interest on or the principal amount of the senior notes at maturity. The payment of the interest and principal on these notes would utilize our available working capital, which would not be available for other purposes. Credit card issuers have promulgated credit card security guidelines as part of their ongoing efforts to battle identity theft and credit card fraud. We continue to work with credit card issuers to assure that our products and services comply with these rules. These can be no assurances, however, that our products and services are invulnerable to unauthorized access or hacking. When there is unauthorized access to credit card data that results in financial loss, there is the potential that parties could seek damages from us. 17 We are subject to laws and regulations that affect the products, services and markets in which we operate. Failure by us to comply with these laws or regulations would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. The Company is, among other things, subject to banking regulations and credit card association regulations. Failure to comply with these regulations may result in the suspension or revocation of our business, the limitation, suspension or termination of service, and/or the imposition of fines that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Additionally, changes to legal rules and regulations, or interpretation or enforcement thereof, could have a negative financial effect on the Company and our product offerings. The payment processing industry may become subject to regulation as a result of recent data security breaches that have exposed consumer data to potential fraud. To the extent this occurs, we could be subject to additional technical, contractual or other requirements as a condition of our continuing to conduct our payment processing business. These requirements could cause us to incur additional costs, which could be significant, or to lose revenues to the extent we do not comply with these requirements. Item 