D. Risk Factors. Investing in our ordinary shares involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before investing in our ordinary shares. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In that case, the value of our ordinary shares could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of operating losses and may not be able to achieve and sustain profitable operations. We may not have sufficient resources to fund our operations in the future. After two years of profitable operations, we incurred an operating loss in 2013 and may not be able to achieve and sustain profitable operations in the future. If we do not generate sufficient cash from operations, we will be required to obtain additional financing or reduce our level of expenditure or cash balance. Such financing may not be available in the future, or, if available, may not be on terms favorable to us. If adequate funds are not available to us, our business, and results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. We depend on large orders from a relatively small number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues. The loss of one or more of our key customers could result in a loss of a significant amount of our revenues. A relatively small number of customers account for a large percentage of our revenues. Revenues from the provision of the perimeter security solution to the port of Mombasa, Kenya accounted for 19.3% and 14.2% of our revenues in 2012 and 2013, respectively and revenues from the provision of the perimeter security and command and control solutions for the 2012 Africa Cup of Nations in the Gabonese Republic, or the Gabonese Republic Project, accounted for 34.8% and 6.7% of our revenues in 2011 and 2012, respectively. Historically, the Israeli Ministry of Defense, or the MOD, and the Israeli Defense Forces, or the IDF, have accounted for a significant amount of our revenues. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, they accounted for 7.8%, 9% and 15% of our revenues, respectively. The MOD, the IDF or any of our other major continuing customers may not maintain their volume of business with us or, if such volume is reduced, other customers generating similar revenues may not replace the lost business. For example, in 2012, we completed the Gabonese Republic Project, and we do not expect to receive any future revenues from this project. Our inability to replace business from large contracts will adversely affect our financial results. Any unanticipated delays in a large project, changes in customer requirements or priorities during the project implementation period, or a customer’s decision to cancel a project, may adversely impact our operating results and financial performance. Because our sales tend to be concentrated among a small number of customers during any period, our operating results may be subject to substantial fluctuations. Accordingly, our revenues and operating results for any particular quarter may not be indicative of our performance in future quarters, making it difficult for investors to evaluate our future prospects based solely on the results of any one quarter. Given the nature of our customers and products, we receive relatively large orders for products from a relatively small number of customers. Consequently, a single order from one customer may represent a substantial portion of our sales in any one period and significant orders by any customer during one period may not be followed by further orders from the same customer in subsequent periods. Our sales and operating results are subject to very substantial periodic variations. Since quarterly performance is likely to vary significantly, our results of operations for any quarter or calendar year are not necessarily indicative of the results that we might achieve for any subsequent period. Accordingly, quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. In addition, we have a limited order backlog that is generally composed of orders that are mostly fulfilled within a period of three to twelve months after receipt, which makes revenues in any quarter substantially dependent upon orders received in prior quarters. - 3 - We may not be able to complete the implementation of our 2013 growth strategy plan and may not be able to successfully expand our business activity and increase our sales. In last quarter of 2013 we adopted a growth strategy beyond the core of our PIDS activity. Pursuant to this growth strategy, we will seek to acquire a security products or cyber company that will expand our portfolio in the security business (HLS) both in the physical and logical field. In addition, we determined to focus our business on our sensor activity, expand our sales channels and close certain technology gaps in response to new demands in the market place. We intend to implement the plan though organic growth or the acquisition of, or investment in, businesses, products and technologies that complement our security business within the PIDS or Cyber fields. We may not be able to implement our growth strategy plan and may not be able to successfully expand our business activity and increase our sales. If we are successful in the implementation of our strategic plan, we may be required to hire additional employees in order to meet customer demands, and if we are unable to attract or retain qualified employees, our business could be adversely affected. We may not be able to consummate any acquisitions or investments in the future or realize the benefits of such acquisitions and investments, if consummated. Our failure to successfully integrate the operations of an acquired business or to retain key employees of acquired businesses and integrate and manage our growth may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation or prospects. We may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition. Moreover, future acquisitions by us could result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and amortization expenses related to identifiable intangible assets, any of which could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial position. Acquisitions also involve other risks, including risks inherent in entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience. Our revenues depend on government procurement procedures and practices. A substantial decrease in our customers’ budgets would adversely affect our results of operations. Our products are primarily sold to governmental agencies, governmental authorities and government-owned companies, many of which have complex and time consuming procurement procedures. A substantial period of time often elapses from the time we begin marketing a product until we actually sell that product to a particular customer. In addition, our sales to governmental agencies, authorities and companies are directly affected by these customers’ budgetary constraints and the priority given in their budgets to the procurement of our products. A decrease in governmental funding for our customers’ budgets would adversely affect our results of operations. This risk is heightened during periods of global economic slowdown. Accordingly, governmental purchases of our systems, products and services may decline in the future as the governmental purchasing agencies may terminate, reduce or modify contracts or subcontracts if: · their requirements or budgetary constraints change; · they cancel multi-year contracts and related orders if funds become unavailable; · they shift spending priorities into other areas or for other products; or · they adjust contract costs and fees on the basis of audits. Any such event may have a material adverse effect on us. - 4 - Because competition in our industry is intense, our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. The global market for safety, security, site management solutions and products is highly fragmented and intensely competitive. It is characterized by rapidly changing technology, frequent new product introductions and rapidly changing customer requirements. We compete principally in the market for perimeter intrusion detection systems, or PIDS, and turnkey projects and solutions. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have greater research, development, financial and personnel resources, including governmental support. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain the quality of our products relative to those of our competitors or continue to develop and market new products effectively. Continued competitive pressures could cause us to lose significant market share. Increased competition and bid protests in a budget-constrained environment may make it more difficult to maintain our financial performance. A substantial portion of our business is awarded through competitive bidding. Governments increasingly have relied upon competitive contract award types and multi-award contracts, which has the potential to create pricing pressure and increase our cost by requiring that we submit multiple bids and proposals. The competitive bidding process entails substantial costs and managerial time to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us or may be split among competitors. Following award, we may encounter significant expenses, delays, contract modifications, or even loss of the contract if our competitors protest or challenge contracts that are awarded to us. Multi-award contracts require that we make sustained efforts to obtain task orders under the contract. As an example, in October 2012, we participated in a MOD experimental program with respect to the Israeli border security fence. During 2013, our technology was tested and we were eventually chosen to install 15 km of border sensors. Two other Israeli contractors were also awarded contracts. However, follow-up orders may be split between the three competing parties pending the customer’s determination of the performance of the different technologies. As a result, the amount of revenues to be generated from this project is uncertain. Unfavorable global economic conditions may adversely affect our customers, which directly impact our business and results of operations. Our business and financial condition is affected by global economic conditions. For example, starting in late 2008 and lasting through much of 2009, a steep downturn in the global economy sparked by uncertainty in credit markets and deteriorating consumer confidence, reduced technology spending by many organizations. More recently, credit and sovereign debt issues destabilized certain European economies as well and thereby increased global macroeconomic uncertainties. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions continues to pose a risk as customers may postpone or reduce spending in response to restraints on credit. Should the economic slowdown increase and/or companies in our target markets reduce capital expenditures, it may cause our customers to reduce or postpone their capital spending significantly, potentially resulting in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, collectability delays, non-payment for product, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may also be required in the future to record impairment charges relating to the carrying value of our intangible assets and goodwill, increase our reserves for doubtful accounts and further write-down our tax assets. In addition, the fair value of some of our assets may decrease as a result of an uncertain economy and as a result, we may be required to record impairment charges in the future. If global economic and market conditions or economic conditions in key markets remain uncertain or weaken further, our financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. We may be adversely affected by our long sales cycles. We have in the past and expect in the future to experience long time periods between initial sales contacts and the execution of formal contracts for our products and completion of product installations. The cycle from first contact to revenue generation in our business involves, among other things, selling the concept of our technology and products, developing and implementing a pilot program to demonstrate the capabilities and accuracy of our products, negotiating prices and other contract terms, and, finally, installing and implementing our products on a full-scale basis. This cycle entails a substantial period of time, sometimes as much as one or more years, and the lack of revenues during this cycle and the expenses involved in bringing new sales to the point of revenue generation may put a substantial strain on our resources. Our business involves significant risks and uncertainties that may not be covered by indemnity or insurance. - 5 - Our business involves significant risks and uncertainties that may not be covered by indemnity or insurance. A significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing, and manufacturing advanced security, site management and intelligence gathering systems and products. New technologies may be untested or unproven. Failure of some of these products and services could result in extensive loss of life or property damage. Accordingly, we also may incur liabilities that are unique to our products and services. In some, but not all circumstances, we may be entitled to certain legal protections or indemnifications from our customers, either through regulatory protections, contractual provisions or otherwise. The amount of insurance coverage that we maintain may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and it is not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. Substantial claims resulting from an accident, failure of our products or services, or other incident, or liability arising from our products and services in excess of any indemnity and our insurance coverage (or for which indemnity or insurance is not available or not obtained) could adversely impact our financial condition, cash flows, or operating results. Any accident, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively affect our reputation among our customers and the public, and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively. It also could affect the cost and availability of adequate insurance in the future. The market for our products is characterized by changing technology, requirements, standards and products, and we may be adversely affected if we do not respond promptly and effectively to these changes. The market for our products is characterized by evolving technologies, changing industry standards, changing regulatory environments, frequent new product introductions and rapid changes in customer requirements. The introduction of products embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and practices can render existing products obsolete and unmarketable. Our future success will depend on our ability to enhance our existing products and to develop and introduce, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new products and product features that keep pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards and address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers. In the future: · we may not be successful in developing and marketing new products or product features that respond to technological change or evolving industry standards; · we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these new products and features; or · our new products and product features may not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. If we are unable to respond promptly and effectively to changing technologies and market requirements, we will be unable to compete effectively in the future. Our failure to retain and attract personnel could harm our business, operations and product development efforts. Our products require sophisticated research and development, marketing and sales and technical customer support. Our success depends on our ability to attract, train and retain qualified research and development, marketing and sales and technical customer support personnel. Competition for personnel in all of these areas is intense and we may not be able to hire sufficient personnel to achieve our goals or support the anticipated growth in our business. If we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business, operations and product development efforts would suffer. - 6 - Our financial results may be significantly affected by currency fluctuations. Most of our sales are made in North America, Europe, Africa and Israel. Our revenues are primarily denominated in dollars, Euros and NIS, while a portion of our expenses, primarily labor expenses, is incurred in NIS and Canadian Dollars. Additionally, certain assets, especially trade receivables, as well as part of our liabilities are denominated in NIS. As a result, fluctuations in rates of exchange between the dollar and non-dollar currencies may affect our operating results and financial condition. The dollar cost of our operations in Israel may be adversely affected by the appreciation of the NIS against the dollar. In addition, the value of our non-dollar revenues could be adversely affected by the depreciation of the dollar against such currencies. During the years ended December 31, 2012 foreign currency fluctuations had an adverse impact on our results of operations and we recorded foreign exchange losses, net of $530,000. In 2011 and 2013, foreign currency fluctuations had a positive impact on our results of operations and we recorded foreign exchange income, net of $1,394,000 and $89,000, respectively. Our results of operations may continue to be materially affected by currency fluctuations in the future. If we do not receive Israeli MOD approvals necessary for us to export the products we produce in Israel, our revenues may significantly decrease. Israel’s defense export policy regulates the sale of a number of our systems and products. Current Israeli policy encourages export to approved customers of defense systems and products, such as ours, as long as the export is consistent with Israeli government policy. A license is required to initiate marketing activities. We are also required to obtain a specific export license for any products, services and knowledge exported from Israel. We may not be able to receive all the required licenses for which we may apply in the future. If we do not receive the required licenses for which we apply, our revenues may decrease. We are subject to laws regulating export of “dual use” items (items that are typically sold in the commercial market, but that also may be used in the defense market) and defense export control legislation. Additionally, our participation in governmental procurement processes in Israel and other countries is subject to specific regulations governing the conduct of the process of procuring defense contracts. Furthermore, solicitations for procurements by governmental purchasing agencies in Israel and other countries are governed by laws, regulations and procedures relating to procurement integrity, including avoiding conflicts of interest and corruption in the procurement process. We may not be able to respond quickly and effectively to changing laws and regulations and any failure to comply with such laws and regulations may subject us to significant liability and penalties. Our international operations require us to comply with anti-corruption laws and regulations of various governments and different international jurisdictions, and our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. Doing business on a worldwide basis requires us and our subsidiaries to comply with the laws and regulations of various governments and different international jurisdictions, and our failure to successfully comply with these rules and regulations may expose us to liabilities. These laws and regulations apply to companies, individual directors, officers, employees and agents, and may restrict our operations, trade practices, investment decisions and partnering activities. In particular, as a company registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, we are subject to the regulations imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA. The FCPA prohibits us from providing anything of value to foreign officials for the purposes of influencing official decisions or obtaining or retaining business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment, and requires companies to maintain adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately reflect the transactions of the company. As part of our business, we deal with state-owned business enterprises, the employees and representatives of which may be considered foreign officials for purposes of the FCPA. If our efforts to screen third-party agents and detect cases of potential misconduct fail, we could be held responsible for the noncompliance of these third parties under applicable laws and regulations, which may have a material adverse effect on our reputation and our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, some of the international locations in which we operate lack a developed legal system and have elevated levels of corruption. As a result of the above activities, we are exposed to the risk of violating anti-corruption laws. We have established policies and procedures designed to assist us and our personnel to comply with applicable U.S. and international laws and regulations. However, there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will effectively prevent us from violating these regulations in every transaction in which we may engage, and such a violation could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. - 7 - Reduction in Israeli government spending or changes in priorities for homeland security products may adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and prospects. Historically, a significant portion of our revenues were from sales to the MOD and IDF and our financial condition, operating results and prospects would be adversely affected by Israeli government budget cutbacks or spending reductions. The award of additional contracts from the Israeli government could be adversely affected by spending reductions or budget cutbacks at government agencies that currently use or are likely to use our products. Our programs may be affected in the future if there is a reduction in Israeli government defense spending for our programs or a change in priorities to products other than ours. Accordingly, changes in government contracting policies, budgetary constraints and delays or changes in the appropriations process could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face risks associated with doing business in international markets. A large portion of our sales is to markets outside of Israel. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013 approximately 88.6%, 86.9% and 77.6%, respectively, of our revenues were derived from sales to markets outside of Israel. A key component of our strategy is to continue to expand in such international markets. Our international sales efforts are affected by costs associated with the shipping of our products and risks inherent in doing business in international markets, including: · different and changing regulatory requirements in the jurisdictions in which we currently operate or may operate in the future; · fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; · export restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers; · difficulties in staffing, managing and supporting foreign operations; · longer payment cycles; · difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; · political and economic changes, hostilities and other disruptions in regions where we currently sell or products or may sell our products in the future; and · seasonal reductions in business activities. Negative developments in any of these areas in one or more countries could result in a reduction in demand for our products, the cancellation or delay of orders already placed, difficulty in collecting receivables, and a higher cost of doing business, any of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. We have significant operations in countries that may be adversely affected by political or economic instability, regime replacement, major hostilities or acts of terrorism. We are a global security company with worldwide operations. Although approximately 63% of our sales are generated in Israel, North America and Western Europe, we expect to derive an increasing portion of our sales and future growth from other regions or regime replacements which freeze the activity, budget allocation and execution decisions in these markets until the new regime is setting up, such as Africa or regime replacements which freeze the activity, budget allocation and execution decisions in these markets until the new regime is setting up, India, Latin America and Central and Eastern Europe, which may be susceptible to political or economic instability. Significant portions of our operations are conducted outside the markets in which our products and solutions are manufactured or generally sold, and accordingly, we often export a substantial number of products into such markets. We may, therefore, be denied access to potential customers or suppliers or denied the ability to ship products from any of our subsidiaries into the countries in which we currently operate or wish to operate, as a result of economic, legislative, political and military conditions, including hostilities and acts of terrorism, in such countries. - 8 - Breaches of network or information technology security, natural disasters or terrorist attacks could have an adverse effect on our business. Cyber attacks or other breaches of network or information technology (IT) security, natural disasters, terrorist acts or acts of war may cause equipment failures or disrupt our systems and operations. We may be subject to attempts to breach the security of our networks and IT infrastructure through cyber attack, malware, computer viruses and other means of unauthorized access. While we maintain insurance coverage for some of these events, the potential liabilities associated with these events could exceed the insurance coverage we maintain. A failure to protect the privacy of customer and employee confidential data against breaches of network or IT security could result in damage to our reputation. To date, we have not been subject to cyber attacks or other cyber incidents which, individually or in the aggregate, resulted in a material impact to our operations or financial condition. We may not be able to protect our proprietary technology and unauthorized use of our proprietary technology by third parties may impair our ability to compete effectively. Our success and ability to compete depend in large part upon protecting our proprietary technology. We have 14 patents and have 5 patent applications pending. We also rely on a combination of trade secret and copyright law and confidentiality, non-disclosure and assignment-of-inventions agreements to protect our proprietary technology. It is our policy to protect our proprietary rights in our products and operations through contractual obligations, including confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with certain employees, distributors and agents, suppliers and subcontractors. These measures may not be adequate to protect our technology from third-party infringement, and our competitors may independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. Additionally, our products may be sold in foreign countries that provide less protection to intellectual property than that provided under U.S. or Israeli laws. Claims that our products infringe upon the intellectual property of third parties may require us to incur significant costs, enter into licensing agreements or license substitute technology. Third parties may in the future assert infringement claims against us or claims asserting that we have violated a patent or infringed upon a copyright, trademark or other proprietary right belonging to them. Any infringement claim, even one without merit, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources to defend against the claim. In addition, we purchase components for our turnkey products from independent suppliers. Certain of these components contain proprietary intellectual property of these independent suppliers. Third parties may in the future assert claims against our suppliers that such suppliers have violated a patent or infringed upon a copyright, trademark or other proprietary right belonging to them. If such infringement by our suppliers or us were found to exist, a party could seek an injunction preventing the use of their intellectual property. Moreover, a successful claim of product infringement against us or a settlement could require us to pay substantial amounts or obtain a license to continue to use such technology or intellectual property. Infringement claims asserted against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Undetected defects in our products may increase our costs and impair the market acceptance of our products. The development, enhancement and implementation of our complex systems entail substantial risks of product defects or failures. Despite testing by us and our customers, errors may be found in existing or new products, resulting in delays, loss of revenues, warranty expense, loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, adverse publicity, product returns, loss of competitive position or claims against us by customers. Any such problems could be costly to remedy and could cause interruptions, delays, or cessation of our product sales, which could cause us to lose existing or prospective customers and could negatively affect our results of operations. Moreover, the complexities involved in implementing our systems entail additional risks of performance failures. We may encounter substantial difficulties due to such complexities which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. - 9 - If subcontractors and suppliers terminate our arrangements with them, or amend them in a manner detrimental to us, we may experience delays in production and implementation of our products and our business may be adversely affected. We acquire most of the components utilized in our products, including our turnkey solutions, from a limited number of suppliers. We may not be able to obtain such items from these suppliers in the future or we may not be able to obtain them on satisfactory terms. Temporary disruptions of our manufacturing operations would result if we were required to obtain materials from alternative sources, which may have an adverse effect on our financial results. In addition, the installation of our fence mounted vibration detection systems in Israel is outsourced primarily to two subcontractors. If either or both of such subcontractors were to be unable or unwilling to continue to perform such services, we would have to identify and qualify one or more substitute subcontractors to perform such services. This could cause delays in the implementation of our fence mounted vibration detection systems in Israel, the costs associated with installing such systems may increase and our business may be adversely affected. We currently benefit from government programs and tax benefits that may be discontinued or reduced in the future, which would increase our future tax expenses. We currently benefit from grants and tax benefits under Israeli government programs, which require us to meet specified conditions, including, but not limited to, making specified investments from our equity in fixed assets and paying royalties with respect to grants received. In addition, some of these programs restrict our ability to manufacture particular products or transfer particular technology outside of Israel. We also benefit from tax credits pursuant to the Scientific Research and Experimental Development Tax incentive Program in Canada. If we fail to comply with the conditions imposed by the Israeli law or the Canadian tax program in the future, the benefits we receive could be cancelled and we could be required to refund any payments previously received under these programs, including any accrued interest, or pay increased taxes or royalties. Such a result would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The Israeli government has reduced the benefits available under these programs in recent years and these programs and benefits may be discontinued or curtailed in the future. If the Israeli or Canadian governments resolve to end these programs and benefits, our business, financial condition, results of operations and net income could be materially adversely affected. We may fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, which could result in material misstatements in our financial statements. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes certain duties on us and our executives and directors. Our efforts to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 governing internal controls and procedures for financial reporting have resulted in increased general and administrative expense and a diversion of management time and attention, and we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting in connection with the filing of the annual report on Form 20-F for each fiscal year. We may identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of our management’s evaluations and annual auditor reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information and the market price of our ordinary shares. Regulations that impose disclosure requirements regarding the use of “conflict” minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries in our products will result in additional cost and expense and could result in other significant adverse effects. Rules adopted by the SEC implementing the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act impose diligence and disclosure requirements regarding the use of “conflict” minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries in our products. Compliance with these rules may result in additional cost and expense, including for due diligence to determine and verify the sources of any conflict minerals used in our products, in addition to the cost of remediation and other changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. These rules may also affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of our products to the extent that there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering “conflict free” metals that can be used in our products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such metals in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Also, since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges with our customers, stockholders and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of the metals used in our products. We may also encounter customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict free. If we are not able to meet customer requirements, such customers may choose to disqualify us as a supplier, which could impact our sales and the value of portions of our inventory. - 10 - Risks Relating to Our Ordinary Shares Volatility of the market price of our ordinary shares could adversely affect our shareholders and us. The market price of our ordinary shares has been, and is likely to be, highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, including the following: · actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results or those of our competitors; · announcements by us or our competitors of technological innovations or new and enhanced products; · developments or disputes concerning proprietary rights; · introduction and adoption of new industry standards; · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; · market conditions or trends in our industry; · changes in the market valuations of our competitors; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions; · entry into strategic partnerships or joint ventures by us or our competitors; · additions or departures of key personnel; · political and economic conditions, such as a recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations or political events; and · other events or factors in any of the countries in which we do business, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism, natural disasters or responses to such events. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for Israeli companies and home security companies in particular, has been highly volatile. Many of these factors are beyond our control and may materially adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our performance. In the past, following periods of market volatility, shareholders have often instituted securities class action litigation relating to the stock trading and price volatility of the company in question. If we were involved in any securities litigation, it could result in substantial cost to us to defend and divert resources and the attention of management from our business. We do not expect to distribute dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain our existing and future earnings to finance operations and expand our business and, therefore, do not expect to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. According to the Israeli Companies Law, a company may distribute dividends out of its profits (as defined by the Israeli Companies Law), provided that there is no reasonable concern that such dividend distribution will prevent the company from paying all its current and foreseeable obligations, as they become due, or otherwise upon the permission of the court. The declaration of dividends is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and would depend on various factors, including our operating results, financial condition, future prospects and any other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. You should not rely on an investment in our company if you require dividend income from your investment. - 11 - As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, we may follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements. We follow Israeli law and practice instead of NASDAQ rules regarding the director nomination process, compensation of executive officers and the requirement that our independent directors have regularly scheduled meetings at which only independent directors are present. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of The NASDAQ Stock Market Rules. We follow Israeli law and practice instead of NASDAQ rules regarding the director nomination process, compensation of executive officers and the requirement that our independent directors have regularly scheduled meetings at which only independent directors are present. As a foreign private issuer listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, we may also follow home country practice with regard to, among other things, the composition of the board of directors and quorum at shareholders’ meetings. In addition, we may follow home country practice instead of the NASDAQ requirement to obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events (such as for the establishment or amendment of certain equity-based compensation plans, an issuance that will result in a change of control of the company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in the company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company). A foreign private issuer that elects to follow a home country practice instead of NASDAQ requirements must submit to NASDAQ in advance a written statement from an independent counsel in such issuer’s home country certifying that the issuer’s practices are not prohibited by the home country’s laws. In addition, a foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed with the SEC, each such requirement that it does not follow and describe the home country practice followed by the issuer instead of any such requirement. Accordingly, our shareholders may not be afforded the same protection as provided under NASDAQ’s corporate governance rules. Risks Relating to Our Location in Israel Political, economic and military instability in Israel may disrupt our operations and negatively affect our business condition, harm our results of operations and adversely affect our share price. We are incorporated under the laws of, and our principal executive offices and manufacturing and research and development facilities are located in, the State of Israel. As a result, political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel directly influence us. Any major hostilities involving Israel, a full or partial mobilization of the reserve forces of the Israeli army, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Since its establishment in 1948, Israel has been involved in a number of armed conflicts with its Arab neighbors and a state of hostility, varying from time to time in intensity and degree, has continued into 2013. Also, since 2011, riots and uprisings in several countries in the Middle East and neighboring regions have led to severe political instability in several neighboring states and to a decline in the regional security situation. Such instability may affect the local and global economy, could negatively affect business conditions and, therefore, could adversely affect our operations. In addition, Iran has threatened to attack Israel and is widely believed to be developing nuclear weapons. Iran is also believed to have a strong influence among extremist groups in areas that neighbor Israel, such as Hamas in Gaza, Hezbollah in Lebanon and Syria and El-Qaida in Egypt. To date, these matters have not had any material effect on our business and results of operations; however, the regional security situation and worldwide perceptions of it are outside our control and there can be no assurance that these matters will not negatively affect us in the future. Furthermore, we could be adversely affected by the interruption or reduction of trade between Israel and its trading partners. Some countries, companies and organizations continue to participate in a boycott of Israeli companies and others doing business with Israel or with Israeli companies. As a result, we are precluded from marketing our products to these countries, companies and organizations. Foreign government defense export policies towards Israel could also make it more difficult for us to obtain the export authorizations necessary for our activities. Also, over the past several years there have been calls in Europe and elsewhere to reduce trade with Israel. Restrictive laws, policies or practices directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses may have an adverse impact on our operations, our financial results or the expansion of our business. - 12 - Our results of operations may be negatively affected by the obligation of our personnel to perform reserve military service. Many of our employees and some of our directors and officers in Israel are obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israeli Defense Forces and may be called for active duty under emergency circumstances at any time. If a military conflict or war arises, these individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or key employees or a significant number of other employees due to military service. Any disruption in our operations could adversely affect our business. The rights and responsibilities of the shareholders are governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. We are incorporated under Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of holders of our ordinary shares are governed by our memorandum of association and articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith in exercising his or her rights and fulfilling his or her obligations toward the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. Israeli law provides that these duties are applicable in shareholder votes on, among other things, amendments to a company's articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers and interested party transactions requiring shareholder approval. In addition, a controlling shareholder of an Israeli company or a shareholder who knows that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholder vote or who has the power to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or executive officer in the company has a duty of fairness toward the company. However, Israeli law does not define the substance of this duty of fairness. Because Israeli corporate law has undergone extensive revision in recent years, there is little case law available to assist in understanding the implications of these provisions that govern shareholder behavior. Our shareholders generally may have difficulties enforcing a U.S. judgment against us, our executive officers and directors and some of the experts named in this annual report, or asserting U.S. securities law claims in Israel. We are incorporated in Israel and all of our executive officers and directors named in this annual report reside outside the United States. Service of process upon them may be difficult to effect within the United States. Furthermore, since substantially all of our assets and all of our directors and officers are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or these individuals may not be collectible within the United States and may not be enforced by an Israeli court. It also may be difficult for you to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. There is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under the Securities Act and the Securities Exchange Act in original actions instituted in Israel. However, subject to certain time limitations and other conditions, Israeli courts may enforce final judgments of U.S. courts for liquidated amounts in civil matters, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of those and similar acts. - 13 - 