ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission are risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to materially differ from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report and in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations. You should carefully consider the following factors in addition to other information contained in this report on Form 10-K before purchasing any shares of our common stock. FACTORS AFFECTING OPERATIONS OR OPERATING RESULTS If there is a deterioration in economic conditions in one of our significant regions such as Europe or the U.S., our business and operating results could be materially adversely impacted. Due to our strong balance sheet, diverse product offerings, various end-markets served, and our broad geographic presence, we are well positioned to withstand slowness in any one particular region or market. However, economic uncertainties affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways, making it difficult to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. A tightening of credit in financial markets or other factors may lead consumers and businesses to postpone spending, which may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their existing and future orders with us. In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers, customers or distributors could result in product delays, increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory or supply challenges. An interruption in supply may also impact our ability to meet customer demands. Consumer demand for our customers' products and shifting consumer preferences are unpredictable and could have a negative impact on our customers and our customers' demand for our products. A disruption in the credit markets could also restrict our access to capital. If our expansion initiatives are unsuccessful, our operating results and reputation may suffer. We are expanding our operations in a number of new and existing markets and jurisdictions, including facilities expansions in the U.S., India, Russia and Latin America. Expansion of our operations will continue to require a significant amount of time and attention from our senior management and capital investment. Our expansion activities present considerable challenges and risks, including the general economic and political conditions existing in new markets and jurisdictions that we enter, attracting, training and retaining qualified and talented employees, infrastructure and labor disruptions, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, the imposition of restrictions by governmental authorities, compliance with current, new and changing governmental laws and regulations and the cost of such compliance activities. We may have limited or no prior experience in certain of these new markets and there is no assurance any of our expansion efforts will be successful. If any of our expansion efforts are unsuccessful, our operating results and reputation may suffer. Higher raw material costs and other inputs and an inability to increase our selling prices may materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The cost of raw materials and other inputs (particularly resin, rubber, metal, anodization costs and transportation and energy costs) are volatile and susceptible to rapid and substantial changes due to factors beyond our control, such as changing economic conditions, currency fluctuations, weather conditions, political unrest and instability in energy-producing nations, and supply and demand pressures. Raw material costs are expected to increase in the coming years and we have generally been able to increase selling prices to cover increased costs. In the future, market conditions may prevent us from passing these increased costs on to our customers through timely price increases. In addition, we may not be able to improve productivity or realize savings from our cost reduction programs sufficiently enough to offset the impact of increased raw material costs. As a result, higher raw material costs could result in declining margins and operating results. The timing and completion of our European Operations Optimization ("EOO") plan may negatively impact our results. On November 1, 2012, the Company announced a plan to optimize certain capacity in Europe. Due to increased production efficiencies and to better position the Company for future growth in Europe, AptarGroup will transfer and consolidate production capacity involving twelve facilities. Two facilities, one in Italy and one in Switzerland, are expected to close and will impact approximately 170 employees. If we fail to execute the established plan as intended, we risk creating longer lead times to our customers and our results could be negatively impacted. In difficult market conditions, our high fixed costs combined with potentially lower revenues may negatively impact our results. Our business is characterized by high fixed costs and, notwithstanding our utilization of third-party manufacturing capacity, most of our production requirements are met by our own manufacturing facilities. In difficult environments, we are generally faced with a decline in the utilization rates of our manufacturing facilities due to decreases in product demand. During such periods, our plants do not operate at full capacity and the costs associated with this excess capacity are charged directly to cost of sales. Difficult market conditions in the future may adversely affect our utilization rates and consequently our future gross margins, and this, in turn, could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 8 /ATR 2012 Form 10-K Table of Contents We face strong global competition and our market share could decline. All of the markets in which we operate are highly competitive and we continue to experience price competition in all product lines and segments. Competitors include privately and publicly held entities. Our competitors range from regional to international companies. While we have experienced some competition from low cost Asian suppliers in some of our markets, particularly in the low-end beauty and personal care market, this has not been significant. Indirectly, some fragrance marketers are sourcing their manufacturing requirements including filling of their product in Asia and importing the finished product back into the United States or Europe. If we are unable to compete successfully, our market share may decline, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have foreign currency translation and transaction risks that may materially adversely affect our operating results. A significant number of our operations are located outside of the United States. Because of this, movements in exchange rates may have a significant impact on the translation of the financial statements of our foreign entities. Our primary foreign exchange exposure is to the Euro, but we have foreign exchange exposure to Swiss, South American and Asian currencies, among others. We manage our exposures to foreign exchange principally with forward exchange contracts to economically hedge certain transactions and firm purchase and sales commitments denominated in foreign currencies. A strengthening U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies has a dilutive translation effect on our financial statements. Conversely, a weakening U.S. dollar has an additive translation effect. In some cases, we sell products denominated in a currency different from the currency in which the related costs are incurred. The volatility of currency exchange rates may materially affect our operating results. If our unionized employees were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, our business and operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The majority of our European employees are covered by collective bargaining arrangements made either at the local or national level in their respective countries and approximately 200 of our North American employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Although we believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory, no assurance can be given that this will continue. If disputes with our unions arise, or if our unionized workers engage in a strike or other work stoppage, we could incur higher labor costs or experience a significant disruption of operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. If we were to incur a significant product liability claim above our current insurance coverage, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Approximately 25% of our net sales are made to customers in the pharmaceutical industry. If our devices fail to operate as intended, medication prescribed for patients may be under administered, or may be over administered. The failure of our devices to operate as intended may result in a product liability claim against us. We believe we maintain adequate levels of product liability insurance coverage. A product liability claim or claims in our Pharma segment or our other segments in excess of our insurance coverage may materially adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. The success or failure of our customers' products, particularly in the pharmaceutical market, may materially affect our operating results and financial condition. In the pharmaceutical market, the proprietary nature of our customers' products and the success or failure of their products in the market using our dispensing systems may have a material impact on our operating results and financial condition. We may potentially work for years on modifying our dispensing device to work in conjunction with a customer's drug formulation. If the customer's pharmaceutical product is not approved by regulatory bodies or it is not successful on the market, the associated costs may not be recovered. Single sourced materials and manufacturing sites could risk our ability to deliver product. The Company sources certain materials, especially some resins and rubber components for our pharmaceutical segment, from a single source. Any disruption in the supply of these materials could adversely impact our ability to deliver product to our customers. Similarly, we have certain components and / or products that are manufactured at a single location or from a single machine or mold. Any disruption to the manufacturing process could also impact our ability to deliver product to our customers. We have approximately $352 million in recorded goodwill and changes in future business conditions could cause this asset to become impaired, requiring write-downs that would reduce our operating income. We evaluate the recoverability of goodwill amounts annually, or more frequently when evidence of potential impairment exists. The impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. A decrease in expected reporting unit cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill and, as a result, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. See "Critical Accounting Estimates" in Part II, Item 7 (which is incorporated by reference herein). Government regulation on environmental matters regarding recycling or sustainability policies could impact our business. Future government regulations mandating the use of certain materials could impact our manufacturing processes or the technologies we use forcing us to reinvest in alternative materials or assets used in the production of our products. 9 /ATR 2012 Form 10-K Table of Contents FACTORS AFFECTING APTARGROUP STOCK Ownership by Certain Significant Shareholders. Currently, Aptar has five shareholders who each own between 5% and 10% of our outstanding common stock. If one of these significant shareholders decides to sell significant volumes of our stock, this could put downward pressure on the price of the stock. Certain Anti-takeover Factors. Our preferred stock purchase rights plan and certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws may inhibit changes in control of AptarGroup not approved by the Board of Directors. These provisions include (i) special voting requirements for business combinations, (ii) a classified board of directors, (iii) a prohibition on stockholder action through written consents, (iv) a requirement that special meetings of stockholders be called only by the board of directors, (v) advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations, (vi) limitations on the ability of stockholders to amend, alter or repeal our bylaws and (vii) provisions that require the vote of 70% of the whole Board of Directors in order to take certain actions. The Board of Directors of Aptar intends to let the preferred stock purchase rights plan expire on April 7, 2013. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company has no unresolved comments from the SEC. 