ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following factors in addition to other information contained in this report on Form 10-K before purchasing any shares of our common stock. FACTORS AFFECTING APTARGROUP STOCK Ownership by Certain Significant Shareholders. Neuberger Berman Inc. and State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company each own approximately 12% and 8%, respectively, of our outstanding common stock. If one of these significant shareholders decides to sell significant volumes of our stock, this could put downward pressure on the price of the stock. Certain Anti-takeover Factors. Certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws may inhibit changes in control of AptarGroup not approved by the Board of Directors. These provisions include (i) special voting requirements for business combinations, (ii) a classified board of directors, (iii) a prohibition on stockholder action through written consents, (iv) a requirement that special meetings of stockholders be called only by the board of directors, (v) advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations, (vi) limitations on the ability of stockholders to amend, alter or repeal our bylaws and (vii) provisions that require the vote of 70% of the whole board of directors of AptarGroup in order to take certain actions. FACTORS AFFECTING OPERATIONS OR OPERATING RESULTS We face strong global competition and our market share could decline. All of the markets in which we operate are highly competitive and we continue to experience price competition in all product lines and segments. Competitors include privately and publicly held entities. Our competitors range from regional to international companies. 6 /ATR 2006 Form 10-K Table of Contents We continue to see competition from low cost Asian suppliers in some of our markets, particularly in the low-end fragrance/cosmetic and personal care market. We experience a direct impact on our business by having to compete against imported low cost products from Asia. Indirectly, some fragrance marketers are sourcing their manufacturing requirements including filling of their product in Asia and importing the finished product back into the United States. If we are unable to compete successfully, our market share may decline, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have foreign currency translation and transaction risks that may materially adversely affect our operating results. A significant number of our operations are located outside of the United States. Because of this, movements in exchange rates may have a significant impact on the translation of the financial statements of our foreign entities. Our primary foreign exchange exposure is to the Euro, but we have foreign exchange exposure to South American and Asian currencies, among others. We manage our exposures to foreign exchange principally with forward exchange contracts to hedge certain transactions and firm purchase and sales commitments denominated in foreign currencies. A weakening U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies has an additive translation effect on our financial statements. Conversely, a strengthening U.S. dollar has a dilutive effect. In some cases, we sell products denominated in a currency different from the currency in which the related costs are incurred. The volatility of currency exchange rates may materially affect our operating results. If our unionized employees were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, our business and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Approximately 100 of our North American employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, while the majority of our European employees are covered by collective bargaining arrangements made either at the local or national level in their respective countries. Although we believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory, no assurance can be given that this will continue. If disputes with our unions arise, or if our unionized workers engage in a strike or other work stoppage, we could incur higher labor costs or experience a significant disruption of operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. If we were to incur a significant product liability claim above our current insurance coverage, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. Approximately 21% of our net sales are made to customers in the pharmaceutical industry. If our devices fail to operate as intended, medication prescribed for patients may either fail to be administered, may be under administered, or may be over administered. The failure of our devices to operate as intended may result in a product liability claim against us. We believe we maintain adequate levels of product liability insurance coverage. A product liability claim or claims in excess of our insurance coverage may materially adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. Higher raw material costs and an inability to increase our selling prices may materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Raw material costs increased significantly over the past few years and we have generally been able to increase selling prices to cover increased costs. In the future, market conditions may prevent us from passing these increased costs on to our customers through timely price increases. In addition, we may not be able to improve productivity or realize our ongoing cost reduction programs sufficiently to help offset the impact of these increased raw material costs. As a result, higher raw material costs could result in declining margins and operating results. We have more than $207 million in recorded goodwill because of acquisitions, and changes in future business conditions could cause these investments to become impaired, requiring write-downs that would reduce our operating income. We evaluate the recoverability of goodwill amounts annually, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. The annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. A decrease in expected reporting unit cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill and, as a result, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. See “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in Part II, Item 7 (which is incorporated by reference herein). ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company has no unresolved comments from the SEC. 7 /ATR 2006 Form 10-K Table of Contents 