Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in shares of our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider the following factors, in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report, in evaluating our business and current and proposed activities before you purchase any shares of our common stock. You should also see the “Cautionary Statement for Purposes of the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995” regarding risks and uncertainties relating to us and to forward-looking statements in this Annual Report. There can be no assurance that the exploratory drilling to be conducted on the exploration blocks in which we hold an interest will result in any discovery of reserves of hydrocarbons or that any hydrocarbons that are discovered will be in commercially recoverable quantities. In addition, the realization of any revenues from commercially recoverable hydrocarbons is dependent upon the ability to deliver, store and market any hydrocarbons that are discovered. Risks Relating to Our Oil and Gas Activities We Have A History Of Losses And Our Liquidity Position Imposes Risk To Our Operations To date, we have not earned revenue from our operations and we are considered to be in the development stage of our operations. We have incurred negative cash flows from our operations, and at this time all exploration activities and overhead expenses are financed by way of the issue and sale of equity securities and interest income on our cash balances. The recoverability of the costs we have incurred to date is uncertain and is dependent upon achieving commercial production or sale. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties which are frequently encountered by companies in their early stage of operations, particularly companies in the oil and gas exploration industry. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon obtaining the necessary financing to complete further exploration and development activities and generate profitable operations from oil and natural gas interests in the future. Our financial statements as at and for the year ended December 31, 2008 have been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the settlement of liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business. We incurred a net loss of $13.3 million, and used $3.1 million of cash flow in our operating activities and $20.3 million in our investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2008. As at December 31, 2008 we had an accumulated deficit of $21.3 million. These matters raise doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We expect to incur substantial expenditures to further our exploration programs and the existing cash balance and any cash flow from operating activities may not be sufficient to satisfy the current obligations and meet our exploration commitments. We are considering various alternatives to remedy any future shortfall in capital. We may deem it necessary to raise capital through equity markets, debt markets or other financing arrangements, including participation arrangements that may be available for continued exploration expenditures. Because of the early stage of our operations, our absence of any oil and natural gas reserves and also as a result of the current global financial crisis and lack of liquidity in the banking system, there can be no assurance this capital will be available and if it is not, we may be forced to substantially curtail or cease exploration block acquisition and/or exploration expenditures which could lead to our inability to meet all of our commitments under all our PSCs. Should the going concern assumption not be appropriate and we are is not able to realize our assets and settle our liabilities, commitments and contingencies, as more fully described in our consolidated financial statements in the normal course of operations, our consolidated financial statements would require adjustments to the amounts and classifications of assets and liabilities, and these adjustments could be significant. Our consolidated financial statements do not reflect the adjustments or reclassifications of assets and liabilities that would be necessary if we are unable to continue as a going concern. GSPC Is Seeking a Payment From Us In the Amount Of Approximately $87.0 Million As Of December 31, 2008 On Account Of GSPC’s Exploration Costs On the KG Offshore Block GSPC, the operator of the KG Offshore Block in which we have a net 5% carried interest, has advised us that it is seeking from us our pro rata portion of the amount by which the sums expended by GSPC under all phases for the Minimum Work Program as set forth in the PSC for the KG Offshore Block in carrying out exploration activities on the block exceeds the amount that GSPC deems to be our pro rata portion of a financial commitment under all phases included in the parties’ joint bid for the award of the KG Offshore Block by the Government of India. GSPC contends that this excess amount is not within the terms of the Carried Interest Agreement. GSPC asserts that we are required to pay 10% of the exploration expenses over and above gross costs of $59.23 million (10% being $5.92 million) (including the net 5% interest of Roy Group (Mauritius) Inc.). Based on the most recent amount provided by GSPC in a letter dated November 28, 2008, GSPC asserts that the amount payable is approximately $78.7 million as of September 30, 2008. We estimate that the amount of GSPC’s claim as of December 31, 2008 to be approximately $87.0 million plus interest as of that date. GeoGlobal disputes this assertion of GSPC. Page 19 We have advised GSPC that, under the terms of the Carried Interest Agreement, the terms of which are also incorporated into the PSC and the Joint Operating Agreement, it has no right to seek the payment and that we believe the payment GSPC is seeking is in breach of the Carried Interest Agreement. We further reminded GSPC that we have fulfilled over the past six years our obligations under the Carried Interest Agreement to provide extensive technical assistance without any further remuneration other than the carried interest, all in accordance with the terms of the Carried Interest Agreement. In furtherance of our position, we have obtained the opinion of prominent Indian legal counsel who has advised us that, among other things, under the terms of the agreements between the parties, and in particular the Carried Interest Agreement, we are not liable to pay any amount to GSPC for either costs and expenses incurred or otherwise before reaching the stage of commercial production. We continue to be of the view that, under the terms of the Carried Interest Agreement, we have a carried interest in the exploration activities conducted by the parties on the KG Offshore Block for 100% of our share (including the share of Roy Group (Mauritius) Inc.) of costs during the exploration phase prior to the start date of initial commercial production on the KG Offshore Block. To date, commercial production has not been achieved on the block. We intend to vigorously protect our contractual rights in accordance with the dispute resolution process under the Carried Interest Agreement, the PSC and the Joint Operating Agreement as may be appropriate. However, there can be no assurance that GSPC will not institute arbitration or other proceedings seeking to recover the sum or otherwise contend we are in breach of the PSC or that the effect of GSPC seeking payment of this sum may not hinder our capital raising and other activities. In September 2007, we commenced discussions with GSPC in an effort to reach an amicable resolution however, no agreement has been reached as of March 20, 2009. On November 5, 2008 GSPC advised us that the Minimum Work Program for all Exploration Phases of the KG Offshore Block had been completed as of September 30, 2008 and same has been noted by Directorate General of Hydrocarbons. As such, GSPC advised us that it has elected to undertake an additional work program over and above the Minimum Work Program as its Exclusive Operations under the terms of the PSC. GSPC estimates the cost of such exploratory drilling operations to be approximately $750.0 million over the period October 1, 2008 to September 30, 2009 of which $75.0 million would be on our behalf, including the 50% for the account of Roy Group (Mauritius) Inc., if we elect to be a joint participant in the additional work program. On November 13, 2008 we advised GSPC that we exercised our right to participate in the drilling operations proposed in the November 5, 2008 GSPC letter as a Joint Operation under the terms of the PSC and Joint Operating Agreement. Further, we advised GSPC, among other things, that our exercise was done pursuant to the terms of our Carried Interest Agreement with GSPC, and as such we would be carried for 100% of all of our share of any costs during the exploration phase prior to the start of initial commercial production and that the Carried Interest Agreement extends through the exploration period of the PSC. As at March 20, 2009, this matter has not been resolved. Because We Are In the Early Stage Of Developing Our Activities, There Are Considerable Risks That We Will Be Unsuccessful We are in the early stage of developing our operations. Our only activities in the oil and natural gas exploration and production industry have primarily involved entering into ten PSCs with the Government of India. At December 31, 2008, we have realized no revenues from our oil and natural gas exploration and development activities and do not claim any proved reserves of oil or natural gas. Our current plans are to conduct the exploration and development activities on the areas offshore and onshore India in accordance with the terms of the PSCs we are a party to. There can be no assurance that the exploratory drilling to be conducted on the exploration blocks in which we hold an interest will result in any discovery of hydrocarbons or that any hydrocarbons that are discovered will be in commercially recoverable quantities. In addition, the realization of any revenues from commercially recoverable hydrocarbons is dependent upon the ability to deliver, store and market any hydrocarbons that are discovered. As of March 20, 2009, there are no or limited facilities for the delivery and storage of hydrocarbons on the areas covered by our PSCs. Our exploration opportunities are highly speculative and should any of these opportunities not result in the discovery of commercial quantities of oil and gas reserves, our investment in the venture could be lost. Our business plans also include seeking to enter into additional joint ventures or other arrangements to acquire interests in additional government created and granted hydrocarbon exploration opportunities, primarily located onshore or in the offshore waters of India and possibly elsewhere. Opportunities to acquire interests in exploration opportunities will be dependent upon our ability to identify, negotiate and enter into joint ventures or other similar arrangements with respect to specific exploration opportunities and upon our ability to raise sufficient capital to fund our participation in those joint ventures or other exploration activities. Our success will be dependent upon the success of the exploration activities of the ventures in which we acquire an interest and our ability to have adequate capital resources available at the times required. Page 20 Our Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Was Not Effective As Of December 31, 2008 And Continuing Weaknesses In Our Internal Controls And Procedures Could Have A Material Adverse Effect On Us During our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in connection with the preparation of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 we identified material weaknesses in those controls as identified in Item 9A. - Controls and Procedures. As a result of management’s philosophy and operating style, we did not maintain an effective control environment. We did not effectively communicate and emphasize controls and enforce corporate strategy and objectives, we did not define roles and responsibilities for employees and management; we did not effectively communicate and enforce policies and procedures for limiting authorization of significant transactions; we did not have a formal process to monitor the competencies and performance of consultants, employees and management to ensure that roles and responsibilities are properly evaluated on a timely basis; and, we did not have sufficient resources with appropriate knowledge in generally accepted accounting principles to allow for an independent review in complex areas of financial reporting. This control deficiency, which is pervasive in nature, could contribute to a material misstatement in the financial statements not being prevented or detected on a timely basis. We have limited accounting personnel with appropriate knowledge of generally accepted accounting principles. Specifically, internal controls did not provide reasonable assurance that transactions related to the following areas were accounted for in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles: · Impairment Assessment Under Full Cost Method of Accounting for Petroleum and Natural Gas Properties This resulted in a material adjustment to our 2008 annual financial statements prior to issuance. · Income Taxes This did not result in an adjustment to our 2008 annual financial statements. As a result of these material weaknesses, our chief executive officer and our chief financial officer concluded that our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures were ineffective as of December 31, 2008, due to the conditions that led to the identification of the material weaknesses. Prior to the filing of this report, we took certain steps to remediate these material weaknesses. Although these actions are continuing, we anticipate that these actions when completed will remediate the material weaknesses we identified and strengthen our internal control over financial reporting. However we cannot assure you that the finalized measures that we implement will effectively address such material weaknesses or that additional material weaknesses may not develop in the future. Remedying the currently existing material weaknesses, as well as any additional significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that we or our independent auditors may identify in the future, may require us to incur significant costs and expend significant time and management resources. If we fail to timely remedy any current or additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies that we or our auditors may identify or if we cannot produce reliable financial reports, we may be unable to comply with our periodic reporting requirements, accurately report our financial results, detect fraud or comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act all of which could result in a loss of investor confidence in the accuracy, timeliness and completeness of our financial reports. As a consequence, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly, we may be unable to obtain additional financing to operate and expand our business and our business and financial condition could be materially harmed. In addition, we can give no assurance that our independent auditors will agree with our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting at that time. Because Our Activities Have Only Recently Commenced And We Have No Operating History And Reserves Of Oil And Gas, We Anticipate Future Losses; There Is No Assurance Of Our Profitability Our oil and natural gas operations have been only recently established and we have very limited operating history, have claimed no proven oil and gas reserves as at December 31, 2008 and limited assets upon which an evaluation of our business, our current business plans and our prospects can be based. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and problems frequently encountered by all companies in their early stages of development and, in particular, those engaged in exploratory oil and gas activities. Such risks include, without limitation: · We will experience failures to discover oil and gas in commercial quantities; · There are uncertainties as to the costs to be incurred in our exploratory drilling activities, cost overruns are possible and we may encounter mechanical difficulties and failures in completing wells; · There are uncertain costs inherent in drilling into unknown formations, such as over-pressured zones, high temperatures and tools lost in the hole; and · We may make changes in our drilling plans and locations as a result of prior exploratory drilling. Page 21 During the exploration phase prior to the start date of initial commercial production, we have a carried interest in the exploration activities on the KG Offshore Block. Our interests in our other exploration blocks are participating interests which require us to pay our proportionate share of exploration, drilling and development expenses on these blocks as those expenses are incurred. Unexpected or additional costs can affect the commercial viability of producing oil and gas from a well and will affect the time when and amounts that we can expect to receive from any production from a well. Because our carried costs of exploration and drilling on the KG Offshore Block are to be repaid in full to the operator, GSPC, before we are entitled to any share of production, additional exploration and development expenses will reduce and delay any share of production and revenues we will receive. There can be no assurance that the ventures in which we are a participant will be successful in addressing these risks, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our prospects for the future. Our operations were recently established, and as such, we have no substantial operating history to serve as the basis to predict our ability to further the development of our business plan. Likewise, the outcome of our exploratory drilling activities, as well as our quarterly and annual operating results cannot be predicted. Consequently, we believe that period to period comparisons of our exploration, development, drilling and operating results will not necessarily be meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our stage of development or future prospects. In the future, operating or drilling results may fall below our expectations or the expectations of securities analysts and investors and that some of our drilling results will be unsuccessful and the wells abandoned. In such event, the trading price of our common stock may be materially and adversely affected. We Expect to Have Substantial Requirements For Additional Capital That May Be Unavailable To Us Which Could Limit Our Ability To Participate In Our Existing and Additional Ventures Or Pursue Other Opportunities. Our Available Capital is Limited In order to participate under the terms of our PSCs as well as in further joint venture arrangements leading to the possible grant of exploratory drilling opportunities, we will be required to contribute or have available to us material amounts of capital. Under the terms of our Carried Interest Agreement relating to the KG Offshore Block, after the start date of initial commercial production on the KG Offshore Block, and under the terms of the nine other PSCs we are parties to, we are required to bear our proportionate share of costs during the exploration phases of those agreements. There can be no assurance that our currently available capital will be sufficient for these purposes or that any additional capital that is required will be available to us in the amounts and at the times required. Such capital also may be required to secure bonds in connection with the grant of exploration rights, to conduct or participate in exploration activities or be engaged in drilling and completion activities. We intend to seek the additional capital to meet our requirements from equity and debt offerings of our securities. Our ability to access additional capital will depend in part on the success of the ventures in which we are a participant in locating reserves of oil and gas and developing producing wells on the exploration blocks, the results of our management in locating, negotiating and entering into joint venture or other arrangements on terms considered acceptable, as well as the status of the capital markets at the time such capital is sought. There can be no assurance that capital will be available to us from any source or that, if available, it will be at prices or on terms acceptable to us. Should we be unable to access the capital markets or should sufficient capital not be available, our activities could be delayed or reduced and, accordingly, any future exploration opportunities, revenues and operating activities may be adversely affected and could also result in our breach of the terms of a PSC which could result in the loss of our rights under the contract. As of December 31, 2008, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $25.4 million. We believe that our available cash resources will be sufficient to meet all our expenses and cash requirements during the year ended December 31, 2009 for our present level of operations on the ten exploration blocks in which we are currently a participant in. Although exploration activity budgets are subject to ongoing review and revision, our present estimate of our commitments of capital pursuant to the terms of our PSCs relating to our ten exploration blocks totals approximately $9.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2009. We anticipate our expenditures on the KG Onshore Block to be $1.8 million based upon a 10% participating interest. Upon receipt of approval from the Government of India for the increase to a 25% participating interest, these expenditures will increase to $4.4 million. Any further PSCs we may seek to enter into or any expanded scope of our operations or other transactions that we may enter into may require us to fund our participation or capital expenditures with amounts of capital not currently available to us. We may be unsuccessful in raising the capital necessary to meet these capital requirements. Page 22 Possible Inability Of Contracting Parties To Fulfill The Minimum Work Programs For Certain Of Our PSCs Our PSCs relating to our exploration blocks in India provide that by the end of each phase of the exploration phases the contracting parties shall have drilled a certain number of wells or performed certain exploration activities. From time to time phases of the exploration periods under the PSCs to which we are a party, including the PSC for the KG Offshore Block, have expired without the required minimum number of wells being drilled during the phase. The PSCs have provisions for termination of the PSCs on account of various reasons specified therein including material breach of the contract. This failure to timely complete the Minimum Work Program may be deemed to constitute such a breach. Termination rights can be exercised after giving ninety days written notice. The termination of a PSC by the Government of India would result in the loss of our interest in the PSC other than contract areas of the PSC determined to encompass Commercial Discoveries. While we do not have reason to believe that the Government of India will exercise any rights under the PSCs to terminate the PSCs on account of these matters, we are unable to determine at this time the outcome of these failures to fulfill commitments, these actions could result is the termination of the PSC by the Government of India or the loss by the parties of some or all of the contract area under the PSC. In the event a PSC is terminated by the Government of India, or in the event the Minimum Work Program is not fulfilled by the end of the relevant exploration phase, the PSC provides that each party to the PSC is to pay to the Government of India its participating interest share of an amount which is equal to the amount that would be required to complete the Minimum Work Program for that phase. With respect to the KG Offshore Block, we are of the view that GSPC, under the terms of our Carried Interest Agreement, would be liable for our participating interest share of any amount required to complete the Minimum Work Program for a phase and any further costs during the Exploration Period prior to the start date of commercial production. Our Failure To Timely File Certain Periodic Reports With The SEC Poses Significant Risks To Our Business, Each Of Which Could Materially And Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition And Results Of Operations We did not timely file with the SEC our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 and our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2008. Consequently, we were not compliant with the periodic reporting requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. As a result of our failure to have timely filed our periodic reports with the SEC, we were in violation of our Listing Agreement with the American Stock Exchange which, had the delinquent reports not have been thereafter filed in accordance with a plan of compliance we filed with and was accepted by the AMEX, would have led to the suspension and ultimate removal of our securities from trading on the AMEX. In addition, our failure to timely file those and possibly future periodic reports with the SEC could subject us to enforcement action by the SEC and shareholder lawsuits. Any of these events could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and our ability to register with the SEC public offerings of our securities for our benefit or the benefit of our security holders. Risks Associated With Our Holding A Carried Interest Under the terms of our Carried Interest Agreement, we are carried by GSPC for all our share of any costs and expenses during the exploration phase on the KG Offshore Block, prior to the start date of initial commercial production. Under the terms of our Carried Interest Agreement, after deducting all royalties payable, GSPC is entitled to recover all such costs and expenses out of production, if any, from wells drilled by GSPC on the block before we are entitled to receive any share of the production. Accordingly, we will not be entitled to receive any production of hydrocarbons or revenues from the production from wells drilled on the block until such time as GSPC has recovered the costs and expenses GSPC paid during the exploration phase on our behalf. As operator of the KG Offshore Block, GSPC is required to conduct the exploration and drilling operations on the block in accordance with generally accepted oil and gas industry standards, subject to the terms of a Joint Operating Agreement, and is entitled to make all decisions and take all actions necessary in fulfilling the Minimum Work Program commitments made in the PSC relating to the KG Offshore Block. Through December 31, 2008, GSPC had expended approximately $87.0 million on our behalf under the terms of the Carried Interest Agreement of which 50% is for the account of Roy Group (Mauritius) Inc. and it is expected that those expenses will increase materially thereafter. There can be no assurance as to when, if ever, GSPC will recover out of production our share of exploration costs and expenses. Until such time, we will realize no revenues from our interest in the KG Offshore Block. Accordingly, our ability to receive revenues from hydrocarbon production from the KG Offshore Block, notwithstanding our carried interest, is dependent upon the future production, if any, recovered from the KG Offshore Block and the price realized from the production, if any, being sufficient to enable GSPC to recover the costs and expenses it incurs on our behalf. Page 23 India’s Regulatory Regime May Increase Our Risks And Expenses In Doing Business All phases of the oil and gas exploration, development and production activities in which we are participating are regulated in varying degrees by the Indian government, either directly or through one or more governmental entities. The areas of government regulation include matters relating to restrictions on production, price controls, export controls, income taxes, expropriation of property, environmental protection and rig safety. In addition, the award of a PSC is subject to Government of India consent and matters relating to the implementation and conduct of operations under the PSC are subject, under certain circumstances, to Government of India consent. As a consequence, all future drilling and production programs and operations we undertake or are undertaken by the ventures in which we participate in India must be approved by the Indian government. Shifts in political conditions in India could adversely affect our business in India and the ability to obtain requisite government approvals in a timely fashion or at all. We, and our joint venture participants, must maintain satisfactory working relationships with the Indian government. This regulatory environment and possible delays inherent in that environment may increase the risks associated with our exploration and production activities and increase our costs of doing business. Our Control By Directors And Executive Officers May Result In Those Persons Having Interests Divergent From Our Other Stockholders As of March 20, 2009, our Directors and executive officers and their respective affiliates in the aggregate, beneficially hold 32,802,100 shares or approximately 45.1% of our outstanding Common Stock. As a result, these persons possess significant influence over us, giving them the ability, among other things, to elect a majority of our Board of Directors and approve significant corporate transactions. These persons will retain significant control over our present and future activities and our other stockholders and investors may be unable to meaningfully influence the course of our actions. These persons may have interests regarding the future activities and transactions in which we engage which may diverge from the interests of our other stockholders. Such share ownership and control may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us, or discourage a potential acquiror from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us which could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Although management has no intention of engaging in such activities, there is also a risk that the existing management will be viewed as pursuing an agenda which is beneficial to themselves at the expense of other stockholders. Our Reliance On A Limited Number Of Key Management Personnel Imposes Risks On Us That We Will Have Insufficient Management Personnel Available If The Services Of Any Of Them Are Unavailable We are dependent upon the services of our President and Chief Executive Officer, Jean Paul Roy, and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Allan J. Kent. The loss of either of their services could have a material adverse effect upon us. We currently do not have employment agreements with either of such persons or key man life insurance. The services of Mr. Roy are provided pursuant to the terms of an agreement with a corporation wholly-owned by Mr. Roy. We have no direct contractual agreement with Mr. Roy and, therefore, he is not directly obligated to provide services to us or refrain from engaging in other activities. At present, Mr. Kent’s services are provided through an oral agreement with D. I. Investments Ltd., a corporation wholly-owned by Mr. Kent. There is no written agreement between us and Mr. Kent which obligates him to refrain from engaging in other activities. At present, our future is substantially dependent upon the geological and geophysical capabilities of Mr. Roy to locate oil and gas exploration opportunities for us and the ventures in which we are a participant. His inability to do the foregoing could materially adversely affect our future activities. We entered into a Technical Services Agreement with Roy Group (Barbados) Inc. dated August 29, 2003, a company owed 100% by Mr. Roy, to perform such geological and geophysical duties and exercise such powers related thereto as we may from time to time assign to it. The initial term of this contract was for three years with a provision to continue for successive periods of one year. Currently the term of the Technical Services Agreement, as amended, extends through December 31, 2009 and continues for successive periods of one year thereafter unless otherwise agreed by the parties or either party has giver written notice that the agreement will terminate at the end of the term. Our Success Is Largely Dependent On The Success Of The Operators Of The Ventures In Which We Participate And Their Failure Or Inability To Properly Or Successfully Operate The Oil And Gas Exploration, Development And Production Activities On An Exploration Block, Could Materially Adversely Affect Us At present, our only oil and gas interests are our contractual rights under the terms of the ten PSCs with the Government of India that we have entered into. We are not and will not be the operator of any of the exploration, drilling and production activities conducted on our exploration blocks, with the exception of the DS 03 Block and the DS 04 Block in which we hold a 100% interest and are the operators. Accordingly, the realization of success in these exploration blocks is substantially dependent upon the success of the operators in exploring for and developing reserves of oil and gas and their ability to market those reserves at prices that will yield a return to us. The Minimum Work Programs required to be conducted by the contracting parties under certain of the PSCs to which we are a party have not been completed by the operators within the time frames required by the PSCs. These circumstances could lead to the termination of the PSC, the assessment of damages against the contracting parties and the loss of our investments under the PSCs. We are dependent upon the operators to timely complete these Minimum Work Programs. Under the terms of our Carried Interest Agreement for the KG Offshore Block, we have a carried interest in the exploration activities conducted by the parties on the KG Offshore Block prior to the start date of initial commercial production. However, under the terms of that agreement, all of our proportionate share of capital costs for exploration and development activities must be repaid without interest over the projected production life or ten years, whichever is less. Our proportionate share of these costs and expenses expected to be incurred over the 6.5 year term of the PSC for which our interest is carried was originally estimated to be approximately $22.0 million. Additional drilling costs including the drilling to depths in excess of 5,000 meters, where higher down hole temperatures and pressures are encountered, versus shallower depths as originally anticipated, as well as the testing and completion costs of these wells, resulted in additional costs exceeding originally estimated expenditures. We have been advised by GSPC that they have incurred costs of approximately $87.0 million on our behalf as of December 31, 2008 of which 50% is for the account of Roy Group (Mauritius) Inc. We have been further advised that GSPC is expected to incur additional costs of approximately $58.0 million on our behalf (including the 5% participating interest of Roy Group (Mauritius) Inc.) under the terms of the Carried Interest Agreement over the period January 1, 2009 to September 30, 2009. We are unable to estimate the amount of additional expenditures GSPC will make as operator attributable to us prior to the start date of initial commercial production under the Carried Interest Agreement or when, if ever, any commercial production will commence. Of these expenditures, 50% are for the account of Roy Group (Mauritius) Inc. under the terms of the Participating Interest Agreement between us and Roy Group (Mauritius) Inc. We are not entitled to any share of production from the KG Offshore Block until such time as the expenditures attributed to us, including those expenditures made for the account of Roy Group (Mauritius) Inc. under the Carried Interest Agreement, have been recovered by GSPC from future production revenue. Therefore, we are unable to estimate when we may commence to receive distributions from any production of hydrocarbon reserves found on the KG Offshore Block. As provided in the Carried Interest Agreement, in addition to repaying our proportionate share of capital costs incurred for which we were carried, we will be required to bear our proportionate share of the expenditures attributable to us after the start date of initial commercial production on the KG Offshore Block. Certain Terms Of The PSCs May Create Additional Expenses And Risks That Could Adversely Affect Our Revenues And Profitability The PSCs contain certain terms that may affect the revenues of the joint venture participants to the agreements and create additional risks for us. These terms include, possibly among others, the following: · The venture participants are required to complete certain Minimum Work Programs during the two or three phases of the terms of the PSCs. In the event the venture participants fail to fulfill any of these Minimum Work Programs, the parties to the venture must pay to the Government of India their proportionate share of the amount that would be required to complete the Minimum Work Program. Accordingly, we could be called upon to pay our proportionate share of the estimated costs of any incomplete work programs. · Until such time as the Government of India attains self sufficiency in the production of crude oil and condensate and is able to meet its national demand, the parties to the venture are required to sell in the Indian domestic market their entitlement under the PSCs to crude oil and condensate produced from the exploration blocks. In addition, the Indian domestic market has the first call on natural gas produced from the exploration blocks and the discovery and production of natural gas must be made in the context of the government’s policy of utilization of natural gas and take into account the objectives of the government to develop its resources in the most efficient manner and promote conservation measures. Accordingly, this provision could interfere with our ability to realize the maximum price for our share of production of hydrocarbons; · The parties to each agreement that are not Indian companies, which includes us, are required to negotiate technical assistance agreements with the Government of India or its nominee whereby such foreign company can render technical assistance and make available commercially available technical information of a proprietary nature for use in India by the government or its nominee, subject, among other things, to confidentiality restrictions. Although not intended, this could increase each venture’s and our cost of operations; and · The parties to each venture are required to give preference, including the use of tender procedures, to the purchase and use of goods manufactured, produced or supplied in India provided that such goods are available on equal or better terms than imported goods, and to employ Indian subcontractors having the required skills insofar as their services are available on comparable standards and at competitive prices and terms. Although not intended, this could increase the ventures and our cost of operations. These provisions of the PSCs, possibly among others, may increase our costs of participating in the ventures and thereby affect our profitability. Failure to fully comply with the terms of the PSCs creates additional risks for us. Page 24 Oil And Gas Prices Fluctuate Widely And Low Oil And Gas Prices Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Results There is no assurance that there will be any market for oil or gas produced from the exploration blocks in which we hold an interest and the ability to deliver the production from any wells may be constrained by the absence of or limitations on collector systems and pipelines. Future price fluctuations could have a major impact on the future revenues from any oil and gas produced on these exploration blocks and thereby our revenue, and materially affect the return from and the financial viability of any reserves that are claimed. Historically, oil and gas prices and markets have been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. A significant decrease in oil and gas prices could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and profitability and would adversely affect our financial condition and the results of our operations. Prices for oil and gas fluctuate in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, including: · political conditions and civil unrest in oil producing regions, including the Middle East and elsewhere; · the domestic and foreign supply of oil and gas; · quotas imposed by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries upon its members; · the level of consumer demand; · weather conditions; · domestic and foreign government regulations; · the price and availability of alternative fuels; · overall economic conditions; and · international political conditions. In addition, various factors may adversely affect the ability to market oil and gas production from our exploration blocks, including: · the capacity and availability of oil and gas gathering systems and pipelines; · the ability to produce oil and gas in commercial quantities and to enhance and maintain production from existing wells and wells proposed to be drilled; · the proximity of future hydrocarbon discoveries to oil and gas transmission facilities and processing equipment (as well as the capacity of such facilities); · the effect of governmental regulation of production and transportation (including regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, allowable production, importing and exporting of oil and condensate and matters associated with the protection of the environment); · the imposition of trade sanctions or embargoes by other countries; · the availability and frequency of delivery vessels; · changes in supply due to drilling by others; · the availability of drilling rigs and qualified personnel; and · changes in demand. Our Future Performance Depends Upon Our Ability And The Ability Of The Ventures In Which We Participate To Find Or Acquire Oil And Gas Reserves That Are Economically Recoverable Our success in developing our oil and gas exploration and development activities will be dependent upon establishing, through our participation with others in joint ventures and other similar activities, reserves of oil and gas and maintaining and possibly expanding the levels of those reserves. We and the joint ventures in which we may participate may not be able to locate and thereafter replace reserves from exploration and development activities at acceptable costs. Lower prices of oil and gas may further limit the kinds of reserves that can be developed at an acceptable cost. The business of exploring for, developing or acquiring reserves is capital intensive. We may not be able to make the necessary capital investment to enter into joint ventures or similar arrangements to maintain or expand our oil and gas reserves if capital is unavailable to us and the ventures in which we participate. In addition, exploration and development activities involve numerous risks that may result in dry holes, the failure to produce oil and gas in commercial quantities, the inability to fully produce discovered reserves and the inability to enhance production from existing wells. Page 25 We expect that we will continually seek to identify and evaluate joint venture and other exploration opportunities for our participation as a joint venture participant or through some other arrangement. Our ability to enter into additional exploration activities will be dependent to a large extent on our ability to negotiate arrangements with others and with various governments and governmental entities whereby we can be granted a participation in such ventures. There can be no assurance that we will be able to locate and negotiate such arrangements, have sufficient capital to meet the costs involved in entering into such arrangements or that, once entered into, that such exploration activities will be successful. Successful acquisition of exploration opportunities can be expected to require, among other things, accurate assessments of potential recoverable reserves, future oil and gas prices, projected operating costs, potential environmental and other liabilities and other factors. Such assessments are necessarily inexact, and as estimates, their accuracy is inherently uncertain. We cannot assure you that we will successfully consummate any further exploration opportunities or joint venture or other arrangements leading to such opportunities. Estimating Reserves And Future Net Revenues Involves Uncertainties And Oil And Gas Price Declines May Lead To Impairment Of Oil And Gas Assets We do not claim any proved reserves of oil or natural gas as at December 31, 2008. Any reserve information that we may provide in the future will represent estimates based on reports prepared by independent petroleum engineers, as well as internally generated reports. Petroleum engineering is not an exact science. Information relating to proved oil and gas reserves is based upon engineering estimates derived after analysis of information we furnish or furnished by the operator of the property. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and gas reserves and of future net cash flows necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, such as historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas, the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies and assumptions concerning future oil and gas prices, future operating costs, severance and excise taxes, capital expenditures and workover and remedial costs, all of which may in fact vary considerably from actual results. Oil and gas prices, which fluctuate over time, may also affect proved reserve estimates. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of oil and gas attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of such reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of the future net cash flows expected therefrom prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers at different times may vary substantially. Actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to reserves we may claim will likely vary from estimates, and such variances may be material. Either inaccuracies in estimates of proved undeveloped reserves or the inability to fund development could result in substantially reduced reserves. In addition, the timing of receipt of estimated future net revenues from proved undeveloped reserves will be dependent upon the timing and implementation of drilling and development activities estimated by us for purposes of the reserve report. Quantities of proved reserves are estimated based on economic conditions in existence in the period of assessment. Lower oil and gas prices may have the impact of shortening the economic lives on certain fields because it becomes uneconomic to produce all recoverable reserves on such fields, thus reducing proved property reserve estimates. If such revisions in the estimated quantities of proved reserves occur, it will have the effect of increasing the rates of depreciation, depletion and amortization on the affected properties, which would decrease earnings or result in losses through higher depreciation, depletion and amortization expense. The revisions may also be sufficient to trigger impairment losses on certain properties that would result in a further non-cash charge to earnings. Risks Relating To The Market For Our Common Stock Volatility Of Our Stock Price The public market for our common stock has been characterized by significant price and volume fluctuations. There can be no assurance that the market price of our common stock will not decline below its current or historic price ranges. The market price may bear no relationship to the prospects, stage of development, existence of oil and gas reserves, revenues, earnings, assets or potential of our company and may not be indicative of our future business performance. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations. Fluctuations in the price of oil and gas and related international political events can be expected to affect the price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price for many companies which fluctuations have been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These market fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against such companies. Such litigation, if instituted, and irrespective of the outcome of such litigation, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Page 26 Cautionary Statement For Purposes Of The “Safe Harbor” Provisions Of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act Of 1995 With the exception of historical matters, the matters discussed in this Report are “forward-looking statements” as defined under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements made herein include, but are not limited to: · the statements in this Report regarding our plans and objectives relating to our future operations, · plans and objectives regarding the exploration, development and production activities conducted on the exploration blocks in India in which we have interests, · plans regarding drilling activities intended to be conducted through the ventures in which we are a participant, the success of those drilling activities and our ability and the ability of the ventures to complete any wells on the exploration blocks, to develop reserves of hydrocarbons in commercially marketable quantities, to establish facilities for the collection, distribution and marketing of hydrocarbons, to produce oil and natural gas in commercial quantities and to realize revenues from the sales of those hydrocarbons, · our ability to maintain compliance with the terms and conditions of our PSCs, including the related work commitments, to obtain consents, waivers and extensions from the Director General of Hydrocarbons or Government of India as and when required, and our ability to fund those work commitments, · our plans and objectives to join with others or to directly seek to enter into or acquire interests in additional PSCs with the Government of India and others, · our assumptions, plans and expectations regarding our future capital requirements, · our plans and intentions regarding our plans to raise additional capital, · the costs and expenses to be incurred in conducting exploration, well drilling, development and production activities, our estimates as to the anticipated annual costs of those activities and the adequacy of our capital to meet our requirements for our present and anticipated levels of activities are all forward-looking statements. These statements appear, among other places, under the captions “Item 1. - Description of Business - Our Oil and Gas Activities,” “Item 1A. - Risk Factors” and “Item 7. - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” If our plans fail to materialize, your investment will be in jeopardy. · We cannot assure you that our assumptions or our business plans and objectives discussed herein will prove to be accurate or be able to be attained. · We cannot assure you that any commercially recoverable quantities of hydrocarbon reserves will be discovered on the exploration blocks in which we have an interest. · Our ability to realize revenues cannot be assured. Our ability to successfully drill, test and complete producing wells cannot be assured. · We cannot assure you that we will have available to us the capital required to meet our plans and objectives at the times and in the amounts required or we will have available to us the amounts we are required to fund under the terms of the PSCs we are a party to. · We cannot assure you that we will be successful in joining any further ventures seeking to be granted PSCs by the Government of India or that we will be successful in acquiring interests in existing ventures. · We cannot assure you that we will obtain all required consents, waivers and extensions from the Director General of Hydrocarbons or Government of India as and when required to maintain compliance with our PSCs , that we may not be adversely affected by any delays we may experience in receiving those consents, waivers and extensions, that we may not incur liabilities under the PSCs for our failure to maintain compliance with and timely complete the related work programs, or that GSPC may not be successful in its efforts to obtain payment from us on account of exploration costs it has expended on the KG Offshore Block for which it asserts we are liable or otherwise seek to hold us in breach of that PSC or commence arbitration proceedings against us. · We cannot assure you that the outcome of testing of one or more wells on the exploration blocks under our PSCs will be satisfactory and result in commercially-productive wells or that any further wells drilled will have commercially-successful results. An investment in shares of our common stock involves a high degree of risk. There can be no assurance that the exploratory drilling to be conducted on the exploration blocks in which we hold an interest will result in any discovery of reserves of hydrocarbons or that any hydrocarbons that are discovered will be in commercially recoverable quantities. In addition, the realization of any revenues from commercially recoverable hydrocarbons is dependent upon the ability to deliver, store and market any hydrocarbons that are discovered. Our inability to meet our goals and objectives or the consequences to us from adverse developments in general economic or capital market conditions, events having international consequences, or military or terrorist activities could have a material adverse effect on us. We caution you that various risk factors accompany those forward-looking statements and are described, among other places, under the caption “Risk Factors” herein. They are also described in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and our Current Reports on Form 8-K. These risk factors could cause our operating results, financial condition and ability to fulfill our plans to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made in this Report and could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to pursue our business strategy and plans. Page 27 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As of December 31, 2008, we did not have any unresolved comments from the SEC staff that were received 180 or more days prior to year-end. Item 