Item 1A. Risk FACTORS We have a history of incurring net losses. Since our inception and throughout most of our history, we have incurred net losses, including but not limited to, a net loss of $788,000 incurred in the year ended December 31, 2013. We expect to continue to make substantial expenditures for sales and marketing, product development and other business purposes. Our ability to achieve profitability in the future will primarily depend on our ability to increase sales of our products (and our cessation of selling and marketing OralStat in the workplace market in November 2013 is expected to severely limit our ability to increase sales), reduce production and other costs and successfully introduce new products and enhanced versions of our existing products into the marketplace. There can be no assurance that we will be able to increase our revenues at a rate that equals or exceeds expenditures. In the year ended December 31, 2013, our sales continued to be negatively impacted by the aftermath of the recession, and a limited cash flow diminished our capacity to purchase raw materials in greater quantities (and on better terms) and this resulted in increased cost of goods. Our failure to increase sales while maintaining or reducing product costs, general and administrative, sales and marketing and research and development costs will result in the Company incurring additional losses. We believe we will need additional funding for our existing and future operations. Our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2013 were prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern. If global economic conditions do not improve or return to pre-recession levels, our current cash balances and cash generated from future operations may not be sufficient to fund operations for the next twelve months. Future events, including the expenses and difficulties which may be encountered in establishing and maintaining a substantial market for our products (including but not limited to the cessation of marketing and selling OralStat in the workplace market), could make cash on hand insufficient to fund operations. If cash generated from operations is insufficient to satisfy our working capital and capital expenditure requirements, we may be required to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain additional credit facilities. There can be no assurance that such financing will be available or that we will be able to complete financing on satisfactory terms, if at all. Any such equity financing would result in further dilution to existing shareholders. The POCT market for DOA is highly competitive. The POCT market for DOA is highly competitive. Several companies produce drug tests that compete directly with our DOA product line, including Alere (formerly Inverness Medical Innovations, Inc.) and its subsidiaries, as well as OraSure Technologies, Inc. In addition to these manufacturers, there are a number of smaller privately held companies, as well as foreign manufacturers, that compete with us. Cost-competitiveness, technological requirements and satisfactory product performance are essential for success in the POCT market for DOA. 9 Cost Competitiveness. Price competition continues to increase in the POCT markets as more companies offer products manufactured outside of the United States. Many foreign manufacturers have lower manufacturing costs and therefore can offer their products at a lower price. These lower costs include, but are not limited to, costs for labor, materials, regulatory compliance and insurance. If we are required to lower our prices to our customers, our revenue levels could be negatively impacted which would adversely affect our gross profit margins. Price competition is also increasing as a result of a number of mergers/acquisition in the drug testing market, as some of these mergers/acquisitions were of US based companies. Oftentimes, when US based companies are purchased, their manufacturing operations are moved outside of the US and this enables the acquirer to lower prices on the products, thereby increasing the number of lower cost products on the market. Based upon actual results in the year ended December 31, 2013, and given current levels of operating expenses, we must achieve approximately $2.0 million in quarterly net sales to attain break-even results of operations. If our products do not achieve and maintain this level of revenue, if we fail to maintain certain gross profit margins and maintain the current level of expenses, our results of operations would be significantly harmed. Technological Requirements. As new technologies are introduced into the POCT market for DOA, we may be required to commit considerable effort, time and resources to enhance our current product portfolio or develop new products to compete with these new technologies. There can be no assurance that any new enhancements or products will be successful in competing with new technologies offered by our competitors. Our success will depend upon meeting product pricing and performance objectives, and there can be no assurance that new enhancements or products will meet such price or performance objectives. We are subject to all of the risks inherent in product development, which could cause material delays in manufacturing. If we fail to keep up with technology in our industry, we may be at a competitive disadvantage or we may face technological obsolescence. Satisfactory Product Performance. Due to the variety and complexity of the environments in which our customers operate, our products may not operate as expected, unanticipated problems may arise with respect to the technologies incorporated into our drug tests or product defects affecting product performance may become apparent after our drug tests enter the market. We could incur significant costs if we are required to remedy defects in any of our products after commercial introduction. Any of these issues could result in cancelled orders, delays and increased expenses. In addition, some of our competitors are more well known, and some have far greater financial resources, which means they can devote substantially more resources to business and product development and marketing efforts. Our inability to successfully address any competitive risk factors could negatively impact sales and further reduce our profitability. One of our customers accounted for more than 10% of our total net sales in the year ended December 31, 2013. One of our customers accounted for approximately 15.5% of our total net sales in the year ended December 31, 2013. Although we have entered into a written purchase agreement with this customer, this customer does not have any minimum purchase obligations and could stop buying our products with 90-days notice. A reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from this customer or the loss of this customer could reduce our revenues. We cannot provide assurance that this customer or any of our current customers will continue to place orders, that orders by existing customers will continue at current or historical levels or that we will be able to obtain orders from new customers. We rely on third parties for raw materials used in our DOA products and in our bulk test strip contract manufacturing processes. We currently have approximately 51 suppliers who provide us with the raw materials necessary to manufacture our point of collection drug-testing strips and our point of collection tests for DOA. For most of our raw materials we have multiple suppliers, but there are a few raw materials for which we only have one supplier. The loss of one or more of these suppliers, the non-performance of one or more of their materials or the lack of availability of raw materials could suspend our manufacturing process related to our DOA products. This interruption of the manufacturing process could impair our ability to fill customers’ orders as they are placed, putting the Company at a competitive disadvantage. 10 Furthermore, we rely on a number of third parties for the supply of raw materials necessary to manufacture the test components we supply to other diagnostic companies under bulk test strip contract manufacturing agreements. For most of these raw materials we have multiple suppliers, but there are a few raw materials for which we only have one supplier. The loss of one or more of these suppliers could suspend the bulk test strip manufacturing process and this interruption could impair our ability to perform bulk test strip contract manufacturing services. We have a significant amount of raw material and “work in process” inventory on hand that may not be used in the year ended December 31, 2014 if the expected configuration of sales orders is not received at projected levels. We currently have approximately $1,434,000 in raw material components for the manufacture of our products at December 31, 2013. The non-chemical raw material components may be retained and used in production indefinitely and the chemical raw materials components have lives in excess of 20 years. In addition to the raw material inventory, we have approximately $758,000 in manufactured testing strips, or other “work in process” inventory at December 31, 2013. The components for much of this “work in process” inventory have lives of 12-24 months. If sales orders received are not for products that would utilize the raw material components, or if product developments make the raw materials obsolete, we may be required to dispose of these unused raw materials. In addition, since the components for much of the “work in process” inventory have lives of 12-24 months, if sales orders within the next 12-24 months are not for products that contain the components of the “work in process” inventory, we may need to discard this expired “work in process” inventory. We have established an allowance for obsolete or slow moving inventory. At December 31, 2013, this allowance was $399,000. There can be no assurance that this allowance will continue to be adequate for the year ending December 31, 2014 and/or that it will not have to be adjusted in the future. We depend on our R&D team for product development and/or product enhancement. Our R&D team performs product development and/or enhancement. There can be no assurance that our R&D team can successfully complete the enhancement of our current products and/or complete the development of new products. Furthermore, the loss of one or more members of our R&D team could result in the interruption or termination of new product development and/or current product enhancement, affecting our ability to provide new or improved products to the marketplace, which would put the Company at a competitive disadvantage. Possible inability to hire and retain qualified personnel. We will need additional skilled sales and marketing, technical and production personnel to grow the business. If we fail to retain our present staff or hire additional qualified personnel our business could suffer. We depend on key personnel to manage our business effectively. We are dependent on the expertise and experience of our senior management for our future success. The loss of a member of senior management could negatively impact our business and results of operations. On October 30, 2013, Melissa A. Waterhouse, our (former) EVP, Regulatory Affairs, Chief Compliance Officer and Corporate Secretary was appointed as our interim Chief Executive Officer/Chief Financial Officer when we became aware that our (then current) Chief Executive Officer/Chief Financial Officer Stan Cipkowski was unable to continue due for medical reasons (Mr. Cipkowski subsequently passed away on October 31, 2013). We have an employment agreement in place with Waterhouse, but there can be no assurance that Waterhouse will continue her employment; and the loss of Waterhouse could disrupt the business and therefore have a negative impact on business results. We also have a number of other individuals in senior management positions. There can be no assurance that they too will continue their employment. We did maintain key man insurance for Cipkowski and the Company was the sole beneficiary of the policy with a face amount of $500,000. We do not currently maintain key man insurance on Waterhouse. 11 Any adverse changes in our regulatory framework could negatively impact our business. In the past, our industry believed that when DOA POCTs were sold in non-clinical markets (such as workplace), they did not fall under the definition of a “medical device”, but when sold in the Clinical market, they did fall under the definition of a “medical device”. When a product is a medical device, a 510(k) marketing application must be submitted to the FDA. A 510(k) is a premarketing submission made to the FDA to demonstrate that the device to be marketed is as safe and effective, that is, substantially equivalent, to a legally marketed device that is not subject to premarket approval. Applicants must compare their 510(k) device to one or more similar devices currently on the U.S. market and make and support their substantial equivalency claims. A legally marketed device is a device that was legally marketed prior to May 28, 1976 (pre-amendments device), or a device that has been reclassified from Class III to Class II or I, or a device which has been found to be substantially equivalent to such a device through the 510(k) process, or one established through Evaluation of Automatic Class III Definition. The legally marketed device(s) to which equivalence is drawn is known as the “predicate” device(s). Applicants must submit descriptive data and, when necessary, performance data to establish that a device is substantially equivalent to a predicate device. Our urine point of collection products have received 510(k) marketing clearance from the FDA, and have therefore met FDA requirements for professional use. Our oral fluid products have never been marketed or sold to the Clinical market (or to any market that would use the products for diagnosis or treatment) and given our belief that 510(k) marketing clearance was not required to sell in non-clinical markets, we never sought 510(k) marketing clearance from FDA on our oral fluid DOA products. We have also been granted a CLIA waiver from the FDA related to our Rapid TOX product line. In July 2009, we received a warning letter from FDA, which indicated that we were marketing OralStat (one of our oral fluid DOA products), in workplace settings without marketing clearance or approval (see Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on August 5, 2009). A warning letter is considered by FDA to be informal and advisory. While a warning letter communicates FDA’s position on a matter it does not commit the FDA to taking enforcement action. We communicated to the FDA our belief (based on legal opinion) that marketing clearance was not required in non-clinical markets, and the fact that there were many other oral fluid point of collection drug tests being sold in the Workplace market by our competitors, none of which have received FDA marketing clearance. The FDA continued to disagree with our interpretation of FDA regulations related to medical devices, and the FDA continued to assert jurisdiction of drug testing performed in the workplace. We also advised FDA that we were willing to obtain marketing clearance but that specific technical and scientific issues existed when attempting to utilize FDA’s draft guidance for our OralStat (because the draft guidance was written for urine drug tests). Nevertheless, we were unable to reach a consensus with the FDA on neither the jurisdiction issue nor the technical issues. On July 10, 2012, we announced in a press release and a Current Report on Form 8-K that we entered into a Consent Decree of Permanent Injunction (the “Consent Decree”) with FDA. Under the terms of the Consent Decree, we were allowed to continue to market our OralStat drug test in the workplace market while we took action to obtain a 510(k) marketing clearance. More specifically, FDA provided the Company with its most recent guidance on the clinical and analytical studies that needed to be conducted to gather data in support of a 510(k) submission for OralStat. We then had a total of 396 days to discuss protocols with FDA, complete our analytical and clinical studies and submit a substantially complete 510(k). We agreed to withdraw the OralStat product from the workplace market if any of the following events occur: 1) we did not submit a substantially complete 510(k) within the specified time period, 2) we failed to submit additional information within time frames specified by FDA, 3) we withdraw our submission, or 4) our 510(k) submission resulted in FDA’s determination that the product was not substantially equivalent. On August 3, 2012 the Consent decree was approved and entered by the United States District Court for the Northern District of New York, and on August 3, 2012, we received guidance from FDA. On September 3, 2013, we filed our application for 510(k) marketing clearance as required under the Consent Decree and on September 18, 2013 we were notified that an administrative acceptance review was conducted, and our 510(k) marketing application was found to contain all of the necessary elements and information needed to proceed with the substantive review. In November 2013, we were informed that the FDA determined that our OralStat was not substantially equivalent to the predicate market device. In accordance with the Consent Decree, we ceased marketing and selling OralStat to the workplace (non-forensic) market. 12 The cost of obtaining marketing clearance was material and has had a negative impact on our efforts to improve our performance and to achieve profitability. Our point of collection oral fluid drug tests historically account for a material portion of our sales, with sales of oral fluid drug tests accounting for approximately 15% of our year to date 2013 sales (the majority of which are sales to the Workplace market). This inability to market and sell our point of collection oral fluid drug tests in the Workplace market will negatively impact our revenues, and the loss of oral fluid test customers will also negatively impact our revenues. We are currently evaluating information received from FDA and what actions we may take in efforts to resubmit a new 510(k) marketing application. We intend to continue marketing and selling OralStat to forensic markets and to markets outside of the United States. There can be no assurance that our actions would result in the Company obtaining 510(k) marketing clearance. Prolonged cessation of marketing and selling of OralStat to the U.S. workplace market would have a negative impact on our sales. Although we are currently unaware of any additional changes in regulatory standards related to any of our markets, if regulatory standards were to further change in the future, there can be no assurance that the FDA will grant the Company appropriate marketing clearances required to comply with the changes, if and when we apply for them. We rely on intellectual property rights, and we may not be able to obtain patent or other protection for our technology, products or services. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology, products and services. We also believe that factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, new product developments, product enhancements and name recognition are essential to establishing and maintaining our technology leadership position. Our personnel are bound by non-disclosure agreements. However, in some instances, some courts have not enforced all aspects of such agreements. We seek to protect our proprietary products under trade secret and copyright laws, which afford only limited protection. We currently have a total of 31 patents related to our POCT products. We have additional patent applications pending in the United States, and other countries, related to our POCT products. We have trademark applications pending in the United States. Certain trademarks have been registered in the United States and in other countries. There can be no assurance that the additional patents and/or trademarks will be granted or that, if granted, they will withstand challenge. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain information that we regard as proprietary. We may be required to incur significant costs to protect our intellectual property rights in the future. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not ensure that our means of protecting our proprietary rights in the United States or abroad will be adequate. Policing and enforcement against the unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights could entail significant expenses and could prove difficult or impossible. Potential issuance and exercise of new options and warrants and exercise of outstanding options and warrants, along with the conversion of outstanding convertible debentures could adversely affect the value of our securities. Stock Option Plans. We currently have three non-statutory stock option plans, the Fiscal 2000 Non-statutory Stock Option Plan (the “2000 Plan”), the Fiscal 2001 Non-statutory Stock Option Plan (the “2001 Plan”) and the 2013 Equity Compensation Plan (the “2013 Plan”). All three plans have been adopted by our Board of Directors and approved by our shareholders, and the 2000 Plan and the 2001 Plan have options issued. Only the 2001 Plan and the 2013 Plan have options available for future issuance. As of December 31, 2013, there were 9,000 options issued and outstanding under the 2000 Plan and 3,307,000 options issued and outstanding under the 2001 Plan, for a total of 3,316,000 options issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2013 (there are no options issued under the 2013 Plan). Of the total options issued and outstanding, 2,747,000 are fully vested as of December 31, 2013. As of December 31, 2013, there were 409,000 options available for issuance under the 2001 Plan and 4,000,000 options available for issuance under the 2013 Plan. 13 Series A Debentures. In August 2008, we completed an offering of 10% Series A Debentures (“Series A Debentures”) and received gross proceeds of $750,000. Holders of the Series A Debentures have a right of conversion of the principal amount of the Series A Debentures into shares (the “Debenture Conversion Shares”) of the common stock of the Company (“Common Stock”), at a conversion rate of 666.67 shares per $500 in principal amount of the Series A Debentures (representing a conversion price of approximately $0.75 per share). This conversion right could be exercised at any time, commencing the earlier of (a) 120 days after the date of the Series A Debentures, or (b) the effective date of a Registration Statement to be filed by the Company with respect to the Conversion Shares. We have the right to redeem any Series A Debentures that have not been surrendered for conversion at a price equal to the Series A Debentures’ face value plus $0.05 per underlying common share, or $525 per $500 in principal amount of the Series A Debentures. We can exercise this redemption right at any time within 90 days after any date when the closing price of the Common Stock has equaled or exceeded $2.00 per share for a period of 20 consecutive trading days. In connection with their services as placement agent in the Series A Debenture offering, Cantone Research, Inc. (“Cantone”) received a placement agent fee, and was also issued a four-year warrant to purchase 30,450 shares of the Company’s common stock at an exercise price of $0.37 per share (the closing price of the Company’s common shares on the Closing Date) and a four-year warrant to purchase 44,550 shares of the Company’s common stock at an exercise price of $0.40 per share (the closing price of the Company’s common stock on the Series A Completion Date), (together the “Placement Agent Warrants”). All Warrants issued to Cantone were immediately exercisable upon issuance. We registered the Debenture Conversion Shares and the Common Stock underlying the Placement Agent Warrants in a Registration Statement on Form S-3 (the “Registration Statement”) filed with the SEC on April 15, 2009 and amended on May 5, 2009. The Registration Statement was declared effective on June 10, 2009. The Series A Debentures were set to mature on August 1, 2012; however, in July 2012, the term of the Series A Debentures was extended to reflect a due date of August 1, 2013, and the interest rate during the extension period was increased from 10% to 15% per annum, due quarterly in arrears. All other terms of the Series A Debentures remained unchanged. Thirty-two of the thirty-seven Holders of Series A Debentures (representing $645,000 of Series A Debentures) extended. Five of the Holders of Series A Debentures (representing $105,000 in Series A Debentures) did not wish to extend the Series A Debentures (we used a portion of the proceeds from a $150,000 Bridge Loan with Cantone Asset Management (“CAM”) to pay the five Holders that did not wish to amend/extend). Given that five of the Holders did not extend, and the principal paid, the number of potential Debenture Conversation Shares did decrease from just over 1 million shares to approximately 860,000 shares. Cantone acted as our exclusive placement agent in connection with the July 2012 amendment of the Series A Debentures, and as compensation for their placement agent services, Cantone received a cash fee of 5% of the gross amount of existing Series A Debentures, or $37,500, and the Placement Agent Warrants issued to Cantone (in connection with their services as placement agent in the original Series A Debenture financing) were amended to reflect a purchase price of $0.17 per share and a new term of three (3) years or they are exercisable through July 31, 2015. On August 1, 2012, we entered into a Consulting Agreement (“Consulting Agreement”) CAM. The Consulting Agreement commenced August 1, 2012 and ended on August 1, 2013. Under the terms of the Consulting Agreement, CAM provided the Company with financial advisory services and advice related to debt refinancing. On August 1, 2012, we issued CAM warrants to purchase 300,000 shares of the Company’s common stock at an exercise price of $0.16 per share (the closing price of our common shares on August 1, 2012) (the “CAM Warrant”). The CAM Warrant is exercisable through July 31, 2015 and has piggyback registration rights. On October 7, 2013, we entered into a new Placement Agent Agreement (“2013 Agent Agreement”) with CRI related to the further extension of the Series A Debentures, as amended, due August 1, 2013. Under the terms of the 2013 Agent Agreement, CRI acted as our exclusive placement agent in connection with an amendment of the Series A Debentures. Under the amendment, the term of Series A Debentures was extended to reflect a due date of either February 1, 2014 or August 1, 2014, at the election of the Series A Debenture Holder. The interest rate during the extension period remains 15% per annum, due quarterly in arrears. All other terms of the Series A Debentures remain the same. 14 As compensation for their placement agent services, CRI received a 3-year warrant to purchase 75,000 common shares at an exercise price of $0.14 (the average closing sale price of our common shares for the 5 days business days ending October 7, 2013). On October 7, 2013, we entered into a new $200,000 Bridge Loan (the “2013 Bridge Loan”) with CAM to pay off the existing Bridge Loan with CAM and to pay placement agent fees and expenses. The maturity date of the 2013 Bridge Loan is August 1, 2014 and it bears simple interest in advance of 15% to be paid in the form of 300,000 shares of restricted shares of ABMC common stock. In addition to the interest, as inducement to enter into the 2013 Bridge Loan, we issued 153,486 restricted shares of ABMC common stock to CAM, and we issued CAM a 3-year warrant to purchase 250,000 common shares at an exercise price of $0.14 (the average closing sale price of our common shares for the 5 days business days ending October 7, 2013). The warrants are 100% exercisable on the date of the grant. On October 7, 2013, we entered into another Agreement to the Series A Debenture (the “2013 Series A Debenture Amendment”) with thirty of the thirty-two holders of Series A Debentures (the “Debenture Holders”) (representing $634,500 of Series A Debentures). One of the Debenture Holders (representing $10,500 in Series A Debentures) did not wish to extend and we used cash on hand and net proceed from another bridge loan with CAM to pay the principal amount due to this Holder. One of the Debenture Holders transferred their investment to another existing Debenture Holder. An extension period of either 6 or 12 months was at the election of the Debenture Holder. 27 of the 30 Debenture Holders (representing $543,500 of Series A Debentures) elected to extend for a period of 12 months. The other 3 (representing $91,000 in Series A Debentures) elected to extend for a period of 6 months. The 27 Holders that elected to extend for a 12-month period were each issued a warrant to purchase 1 share of common stock for each $1.00 that was extended. We issued 2-year warrants to purchase 543,500 shares of ABMC common stock at an exercise price of $0.14 (the average closing sale price of our common shares for the 5 days business days ending October 7, 2013) to these 27 Holders (the “2013 Holder Warrants”). Imperium/Monarch Warrants On January 16, 2013, in connection with a line of credit with Imperium Commercial Finance LLC (“Imperium”), we granted Imperium a 7-year warrant to purchase 2,000,000 common shares of the Company at an exercise price of $0.18, the closing price of our common shares on January 16, 2013 (the “Imperium Warrant”). The Imperium Warrant was 100% (or 2,000,000 common shares) exercisable on the date of issuance. In addition, as per of their finder’s fee compensation, we issued Monarch Capital Group, LLC (“Monarch”) a 5-year warrant representing 3% of the Imperium Warrant, or a 5-year warrant to purchase 60,000 common shares of the Company, also at a strike price of $0.18, the closing price of our common shares on January 16, 2013 (the “Monarch Warrant”). The Monarch Warrant was 100% (or 60,000 common shares) exercisable on the date of issuance. If these stock options, Debenture Conversion Shares, Placement Agent Warrants, CAM Warrants, 2013 Holder Warrants, Imperium Warrant or Monarch Warrant are exercised, the common shares issued will be freely tradable, increasing the total number of common shares issued and outstanding. If these shares are offered for sale in the public market, the sales could adversely affect the prevailing market price by lowering the bid price of our securities. The exercise of any of these stock options, Debenture Conversion Shares, Placement Agent Warrants, CAM Warrants, 2013 Holder Warrants, the Imperium Warrant and the Monarch Warrant could also materially impair our ability to raise capital through the future sale of equity securities because issuance of the common shares underlying the stock options, Debenture Conversion Shares, Placement Agent Warrants, CAM Warrants, 2013 Holder Warrants, Imperium Warrant and the Monarch Warrant would cause further dilution of our securities. In addition, in the event of any change in the outstanding shares of our common stock by reason of any recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, stock dividend, reorganization consolidation, combination or exchange of shares, merger or any other changes in our corporate or capital structure or our common shares, the number and class of shares covered by the stock options and/or the exercise price of the stock options may be adjusted as set forth in their plans. 15 Substantial resale of restricted securities may depress the market price of our securities. There are 5,292,000 common shares presently issued and outstanding as of the date hereof that are “restricted securities” as that term is defined under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, (the “Securities Act”) and in the future may be sold in compliance with Rule 144 of the Securities Act (“Rule 144”), or pursuant to a registration statement filed under the Securities Act. Rule 144 addresses sales of restricted securities by affiliates and non-affiliates of an issuer. An “affiliate” is a person, such as an officer, director or large shareholder, in a relationship of control with the issuer. “Control” means the power to direct the management and policies of the company in question, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract, or otherwise. If someone buys securities from a controlling person or an affiliate, they take restricted securities, even if they were not restricted in the affiliate's hands. A person who is not an affiliate of the issuer (and who has not been for at least three months) and has held the restricted securities for at least one year can sell the securities without regard to restrictions. If the non-affiliate had held the securities for at least six months but less than one year, the securities may be sold by the non-affiliate as long as the current public information condition has been met (i.e. that the issuer has complied with the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”)). We are subject to reporting requirements of the Exchange Act. Under Rule 144, if a holder of securities is an affiliate of an issuer subject to Exchange Act reporting requirements, the securities must be held for at least six months. In addition, the number of equity securities sold during any three-month period cannot exceed 1% of the outstanding shares of the same class being sold. The securities must be sold in unsolicited, routine trading transactions and brokers may not receive more than normal commission. Affiliates must also file a notice with the SEC on Form 144 if a sale involves more than 5,000 shares or the aggregate dollar amount is greater than $50,000 in any three-month period. The sale must take place within three months of filing the Form 144 and, if the securities have not been sold, an amended notice must be filed. Investors should be aware that sales under Rule 144 or pursuant to a registration statement filed under the Securities Act may depress the market price of our securities in any market for such shares. Our securities are currently trading on the Pink OTC Markets, Inc. (under their OTCQB™ market tier), and may be subject to SEC “penny stock,” rules, which could make it more difficult for a broker-dealer to trade our common shares, for an investor to acquire or dispose of our common shares in the secondary market and for us to retain or attract market makers. The SEC has adopted regulations that define a “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price per share of less than $5.00, subject to certain exceptions, such as any securities listed on a national securities exchange or securities of an issuer in continuous operation for more than three years whose net tangible assets are in excess of $2 million, or an issuer that has average revenue of at least $6 million for the last three years. Our common shares were delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market in September 2009 and are currently trading on the Pink OTC Markets, Inc., under their OTCQB market tier (the US registered and reporting marketplace for over-the-counter (OTC) securities). As of the year ended December 31, 2013, our net tangible assets did not exceed $2 million, however, our average revenue for the last three years exceeded $6 million, so that our securities currently qualify for exclusion from the “penny stock” definitions. However, if our three-year average revenue falls below $6 million, we would fail to qualify for the exclusion, and our common shares would be subject to “penny stock” rules. For any transaction involving a “penny stock,” unless exempt, the rules impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers, subject to certain exceptions. For these reasons, a broker-dealer may find it more difficult to trade our common stock and an investor may find it more difficult to acquire or dispose of our common stock on the secondary market. Therefore, broker-dealers may be less willing or able to sell or make a market in our securities because of the penny stock disclosure rules. Not maintaining a listing on a major stock market may result in a decrease in the trading price of our securities due to a decrease in liquidity and less interest by institutions and individuals in investing in our securities, and could also make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future. Furthermore, listing on the OTCQB may make it more difficult to retain and attract market makers. In the event that market makers cease to function as such, public trading of our securities will be adversely affected or may cease entirely. 16 We incur additional significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. We incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses as a result of our required compliance with certain regulations. More specifically, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”), and other rules subsequently implemented by the SEC, imposes various requirements on public companies. Our management and other personnel must devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. Management is required to perform system and process evaluation and testing of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires companies to obtain auditor’s attestation related to their assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Wall Street Reform Act”). Section 989G of the Wall Street Reform Act expressly exempts issuers that are neither “large accelerated filers” nor “accelerated filers” (which includes smaller reporting companies, and we are a smaller reporting company) from the requirement contained in Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes Oxley Act to provide an auditor attestation of internal control over financial reporting. Although we are not required to comply with Section 404(b), we remain subject to Section 404(a) (that is, management’s report on our internal controls over financial reporting). Our testing may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. As a result, our compliance with Section 404(a) may require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. We do not have an internal audit group, and we may need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge to ensure compliance with these regulations and/or to correct such material weaknesses. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404(a), or if we identify deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting, the market price of our common shares could decline, and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. Difficult conditions in the global economy have adversely affected our business and results of operations and it is uncertain if these conditions will improve in the near future. The global economy has faced an extended worldwide recession and economic crisis. The recession and economic crisis has substantially reduced our sales and negatively impacted our results of operations. The magnitude and duration of the recession and economic crisis make it extremely difficult to forecast future sales levels. Without an economic recovery, we could experience lower sales, lower gross margins and increased bad debt risks, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. There could be a number of other adverse effects on the Company’s business, including insolvency of customers and suppliers. Inability to comply with financial covenants under our current credit facilities could result in our creditor(s) declaring all amounts owed to them due and payable with immediate effect, or result in the collection of collateral by the creditor(s); both of which would have an adverse material impact on our business and our ability to continue operations. We have a credit facility with Imperium Commercial Finance, LLC (the “Imperium Line of Credit”) consisting of a maximum amount of $1,000,000 on a revolving line of credit, and a discretionary supplemental advance of $200,000 (together the “Imperium Line of Credit”). The Imperium Line of Credit is secured by a first security interest in all of our receivables, inventory, and intellectual property rights along with a second security interest in our machinery and equipment (together the “Collateral”). We also have a Mortgage Consolidation Loan with First Niagara Bank (“FNB”). The loan with FNB is secured by our facility in Kinderhook, New York as well as various pieces of machinery and equipment. 17 Both of these facilities require that we comply with certain financial covenants (these covenants are discussed in more detail in our periodic reports on Form 10-Q and in the Notes within this Annual Reports on Form 10-K). We did not comply with the Imperium Line of Credit minimum EBITDA requirement for the quarter ending March 31, 2013, however, upon conferences with Imperium, on May 20, 2013, Imperium waived the EBITDA requirement for the quarter ended March 31, 2013. Imperium was paid $10,0000 for costs related to account review. We also did not comply with the EBITDA requirement for the quarter ended June 30, 2013 or September 30, 2013, and as of the date of this report, we are also not in compliance with the EDBITDA requirement for the quarter ended December 31, 2013 (to be measured upon the filing of this Form 10-K). EBITDA non-compliance constitutes an event of default under our Imperium Line of Credit, and in the event of default under the Imperium Line of credit, our interest rate can be increased by 4% for as long as the event of default occurs. Imperium’s other remedies include, but are not limited to, termination or suspension of Imperium’s obligation to make further advances to the Company, declaration of all amounts owed to Imperium due and payable. The increase in interest rate, given our current advances under the Imperium Line of Credit would not be material, however, if Imperium were to suspend or terminate further advances, or declare all amounts due and payable, this would have a material adverse effect on our business and negatively impact our ability to continue operations. FNB’s remedies for an event of default include, but are not necessarily limited to, consideration of all amounts owed to them due and payable and collection or receiving of Collateral. If Imperium and/or FNB were to exercise these remedies, it is highly unlikely that we would be able to pay such amounts and this would result in the collection and receipt of the Collateral by the lender, and this would have a material adverse impact on our business and our ability to continue operations. Failure to comply with the financial covenants under either one of these facilities would not only result in a default under the particular facility but could be considered an event of default under the other facility. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 