ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, the following factors should be considered carefully in evaluating Conceptus and our business. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect us. Other risks and uncertainties that we do not presently consider to be material or of which we are not presently aware, may become important factors that affect us in the future. You should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. We are presently a one product company and if our product fails to gain market acceptance, our business will suffer. We are dependent on the Essure system, which is currently our only commercial product. Notwithstanding FDA approval to market the Essure system in November 2002, the Essure system is a novel product compared to other products in the contraception market, which is dominated by procedures that are well established among physicians and patients and are routinely taught to new physicians. As a result, we believe that recommendations and endorsements by physicians continue to be essential for market acceptance of our product. Physicians and patients may not accept our product and we may not be able to obtain their recommendations or endorsements in sufficient amounts to sustain profitability. We believe that physicians will not use a product unless they determine, based on clinical data and other factors, that it is an attractive alternative to other means of contraception and that it offers clinical utility in a cost-effective manner. Physicians are traditionally slow to adopt new products and treatment practices, partly because of perceived liability risks. If the Essure system does not achieve significant market acceptance among physicians, patients and healthcare payers, even if reimbursement levels are sufficient and necessary U.S. and international regulatory approvals are maintained, we may fail to achieve significant revenues or sustain profitability. 15 Table of Contents We could face competition, and if we are unable to compete effectively, demand for the Essure system may be reduced. The medical device industry is highly competitive and is characterized by rapid and significant technological change. To compete successfully, we will need to continue to demonstrate the advantages of our Essure products and technologies over well-established alternative procedures, products and technologies, and convince physicians and other healthcare decision makers of the advantages of our products and technology. As we market the Essure system, we expect to compete with: •other methods of permanent contraception, in particular tubal ligation; •other companies that have developed or may be developing permanent contraception devices that are similar to or otherwise compete with the Essure system; •other methods of non-permanent contraception, including devices such as intrauterine devices, or IUDs, vaginal rings, condoms and prescription drugs such as the birth control pill, injectable and implantable contraceptives and patches; and We compete against other surgical procedures for permanent birth control, mechanical devices and other contraceptive methods, including existing methods of reversible birth control for both women and men. The Essure procedure faces direct competition from Adiana, a hysteroscopic sterilization method that is manufactured and sold by Hologic, Inc. in Europe and the United States. We believe the Essure procedure has significant advantages over its competitor such as its higher effectiveness rate, no risks from the use of RF energy and the fact that the micro-inserts are radio-opaque, which enables the physician to visually confirm that the micro-inserts have been properly placed in the fallopian tubes. Many of our competitors possess a larger women's health focused sales force and have access to the greater resources required to develop and market a competitive product than we do. In addition, new competition and products may arise due to consolidation within the industry and other companies may develop products that could compete with the Essure system. Our competitive position also depends on: •widespread awareness, acceptance and adoption of our Essure product; •our ability to respond promptly to medical and technological changes through the development and commercialization of new products; •availability of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers, insurance companies and others for the Essure procedure; •the manufacture and delivery of our products in sufficient volumes on time, and accurately predicting and controlling costs associated with manufacturing, installation, warranty and maintenance of the products; •our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; •the extent of our patent protection or our ability to otherwise develop proprietary products and processes; and •securing sufficient capital resources to expand our sales and marketing efforts. These and other competitive factors may render the Essure system obsolete or noncompetitive or reduce demand for the Essure system. 16 Table of Contents The fluctuation of our quarterly results may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our revenues and results of operations have in the past and will likely vary in the future from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and any of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. The primary factors that may affect us include the following: •the extent to which the Essure system gains market acceptance; •the rate at which physicians are trained to perform the Essure procedure; •the timing of sales of our products and services; •actions relating to reimbursement matters; •increases in sales and marketing, product development or administration expenses; •the rate at which we establish U.S. and international distribution or marketing partners and the degree of their success; •introduction of competitive products; and •costs related to acquisitions of technology or businesses. You should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. It is likely that in some future quarters, our results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In this event, the price of our common stock may fall. Our advertising campaigns may not be successful. Our advertising programs, which are aimed at increasing consumer awareness for our Essure system, are generally expensive and may have limited success, if any. We have increased the number and extent of these advertising programs to make more women aware of the Essure procedure. Such campaigns require consumers to make contact with an Essure trained physician, which at times may involve a referral from their primary care physician, and to then be provided information regarding birth control options by the physician, be preauthorized for insurance reimbursement and then be scheduled for the procedure. Many of these steps are not within our control, and the advertising programs may not result in revenue generation commensurate with their costs. We may experience disruption in supply due to our dependence on our contract manufacturers to supply our commercial product requirements and our inability to obtain suppliers of certain components for our products. Our suppliers may encounter problems during manufacturing due to a variety of reasons, including failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, failure to comply with applicable regulations, equipment malfunctions, labor shortages or environmental factors. In addition, we and our third party manufacturers purchase both raw materials used in our product and finished goods from various suppliers, and we rely on a single source supplier for certain components of our product. Although we anticipate that we have adequate sources of supply and/or inventory of these components to handle our production needs for the foreseeable future, if we or our contract manufacturers are unable to secure on a timely basis sufficient quantities of the materials we depend on to manufacture our products, if we encounter delays or contractual or other difficulties in our relationships with these suppliers, or if we cannot find alternate suppliers at an acceptable cost, then the manufacture of our products may be disrupted, which could increase our costs and have a material adverse effect on our business. 17 Table of Contents Our intellectual property rights may not provide meaningful commercial protection for our product, which could enable third parties to use our technology, or very similar technology, and could impair our ability to compete in the market. We rely on patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws to limit the ability of others to compete with us using the same or similar technology in the United States and other countries. However, as described below, these laws afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights to the extent necessary to sustain any competitive advantage we may have. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting their proprietary rights abroad. These problems can be caused by the absence of rules and methods for defending intellectual property rights. We will be able to protect our technology from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that they are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. The patent positions of companies developing medical devices, including our patent position, generally are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions concerning the enforceability of such patents against alleged infringement. Recent judicial decisions have established new case law and a reinterpretation of previous patent case law, and consequently we cannot assure you that historical legal standards surrounding the questions of infringement and validity will be applied in future cases. In addition, legislation may be pending in United States Congress that, if enacted in its present form, may limit the ability of medical device manufacturers in the future to obtain patents on surgical and medical procedures that are not performed by, or as a part of, devices or compositions that are themselves patentable. Our ability to protect our proprietary methods and procedures may be compromised by the enactment of this legislation or any other limitation or reduction in the patentability of medical and surgical methods and procedures. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may therefore diminish the value of our intellectual property. We own, or control through licenses, a variety of issued patents and pending patent applications. However, the patents on which we rely may be challenged and invalidated, and our patent applications may not result in issued patents. Moreover, our patents and patent applications may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products. We also face the risk that others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies. We have taken security measures to protect our proprietary information, especially proprietary information that is not covered by patents or patent applications. These measures, however, may not provide adequate protection of our trade secrets or other proprietary information. We seek to protect our proprietary information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, collaborators and consultants. Nevertheless, employees, collaborators or consultants could still disclose our proprietary information and we may not be able to protect our trade secrets in a meaningful way. If we lose any employees, we may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or other trade secrets by those former employees despite the existence of a nondisclosure and confidentiality agreement and other contractual restrictions designed and intended to protect our proprietary technology. In addition, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Our ability to compete effectively will depend substantially on our ability to develop and maintain proprietary aspects of our technology. Our issued patents, any future patents that may be issued as a result of our United States or foreign patent applications, or the patents under which we have license rights may not offer any degree of protection against competitive products. Any patents that may be issued or licensed to us or any of our patent applications could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented in the future. 18 Table of Contents If we cannot operate our business without infringing third-party intellectual property rights, our prospects will suffer. Our success will depend in part on our ability to operate without infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. We may be exposed to future litigation by third parties based on claims that our product infringes the intellectual property rights of others. There are numerous issued patents in the medical device industry and, as described in the next risk factor, the validity and breadth of medical device patents involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. Our competitors may assert that our product and the methods we employ may be covered by United States or foreign patents held by them. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending patent applications of which we are unaware that may later result in issued patents that our product may infringe. There could also be existing patents of which we are unaware that our product may inadvertently infringe. If we lose a patent infringement lawsuit, we could be prevented from selling our product unless we can obtain a license to use technology or ideas covered by that patent or are able to redesign the product to avoid infringement. A license may not be available to us on terms acceptable to us, or at all, and we may not be able to redesign our product to avoid any infringement. If we are not successful in obtaining a license or redesigning our product, we may be unable to sell our product and our business would suffer. We have been, and may be in the future, a party to patent litigation, which could be expensive and divert our management's attention. The medical device industry has been characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights, and companies in the industry have used intellectual property litigation to gain a competitive advantage. We may become a party to patent infringement claims and litigation or interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or PTO, to determine the priority of inventions. The defense and prosecution of these matters are both costly and time consuming. We may need to commence proceedings against others to enforce our patents, to protect our trade secrets or know-how or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. These proceedings would result in substantial expense to us and significant diversion of effort by our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in new litigation or interference proceedings to which may become a party could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties or require us to seek licenses from third parties. Although patent and intellectual property disputes in the medical device area have often been settled through licensing or similar arrangements, costs associated with such arrangements may be substantial and could include ongoing royalties. We may be unable to obtain necessary licenses on satisfactory terms, if at all. Adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling the Essure system. One of the patents included in our license from Target Therapeutics, a division of Boston Scientific Corporation, has been the subject of reexamination proceedings in the PTO and an infringement lawsuit by Target Therapeutics. We are not a party to this lawsuit. The patent is directed to variable stiffness catheters for use with guidewires, as might be used in our future products. Although the PTO reaffirmed the patent with amended claims and the lawsuit was settled, the patent could be challenged or invalidated in the future. If this patent is invalidated, our ability to prevent others from using this proprietary technology would be compromised. On May 22, 2009, we filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court, Northern District of California against Hologic, Inc., ("Hologic") seeking declaratory judgment by the Court that Hologic's planned importation, use, sale or offer to sell of its forthcoming Adiana Permanent Contraception system will infringe several U.S. patents owned by us including U.S. Patent Nos. 6,634,361, 6,709,667, 19 Table of Contents 7,237,552, 7,428,904 and 7,506,650, and an injunction prohibiting Hologic from importing, using, selling or offering to sell its Adiana system in the United States. Upon FDA approval of the Adiana Permanent Contraception system, we filed an Amended Complaint in July 2009 seeking a judgment that Hologic's importation, use, sale and/or offer to sell the system infringes the same patents mentioned above and requested an injunction against such activity. On August 13, 2009, the Company filed a motion for preliminary injunction, requesting the Court to enjoin the Adiana system in the United States pending final judgment in the action. On August 25, 2009, Hologic filed its Answer and asserted counterclaims against the Company that it was violating the Lanham Act and the California Statutory Unfair Competition Law. On October 14, 2009, the Company answered with its own counterclaims asserting that Hologic was violating the Lanham Act and the California Statutory Unfair Competition Law through its selling practices. A hearing was held on that motion on November 4, 2009 and an order denying the motion was issued on November 6, 2009 Upon stipulation of the parties, on January 19, 2010, all claims relating to three of the five asserted patents were dismissed with prejudice. A claim construction hearing was held on March 10, 2010. A trial date is scheduled for February 28, 2011. If we fail to manage any expansion or acquisition, our business could be impaired. We may in the future acquire one or more technologies, products or companies that complement our business. We may not be able to effectively integrate these into our business and any such acquisition or expansion could bring additional risks, exposures and challenges to our company. In addition, acquisitions may dilute our earnings per share, disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses, subject us to liabilities and increase our risk of litigation, all of which could harm our business. If we use cash to acquire technologies, products, companies or expand operations, it may divert resources otherwise available for other purposes. If we use our common stock to acquire technologies, products or companies, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution. If we fail to manage any expansion or acquisition, our business could be impaired. We have a limited history of operation with the Essure system, and have only recently achieved profitability.. We may again incur operating losses and we may not sustain profitability. We have a limited history of operation with the Essure system and since our inception in 1992, we have incurred operating losses until we experienced our first operating profit in Fiscal 2008. We may again incur operating losses as we continue sales and marketing efforts worldwide and in the United States, particularly on a quarterly basis. Our operating loss may l continue until sufficient revenues can be generated to offset expenses. Losses have caused and may continue to cause our stockholders' equity and net current assets to decrease. Our failure to sustain profitability would negatively impact the market price of our common stock and our ability to satisfy our obligations in the future. The current economic climate affecting world financial markets may adversely affect our business and prospects. Worldwide market acceptance of our Essure system is dependent upon the medical equipment purchasing and procurement practices of our physician customers, patient demand for our Essure system and procedures and the reimbursement of patient's medical expenses by government healthcare programs. The current economic climate may result in the purchasers of medical equipment decreasing their medical equipment purchasing and procurement activities. 20 Table of Contents Our stock price is volatile. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be volatile. We believe that a variety of factors could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including: •announcements and rumors of developments related to our business, including changes in reimbursement rates or regulatory requirements, proposed and completed acquisitions, or the industry in which we compete: •published studies and reports relating to the comparative efficacy of products and markets in which we participate; •quarterly fluctuations in our actual or anticipated operating results and order levels; •general conditions in the worldwide economy; •announcements of technological innovations: •new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; •developments in patents or other intellectual property rights and litigation; and •developments in relationships with our customers and suppliers. The price of our common stock also may be adversely affected by the amount of common stock issuable upon conversion of our Convertible Notes. In addition, in recent years the stock market in general and the markets for shares of "high-tech" companies have experienced extreme price fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. Any such fluctuations in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and the market price of our common stock may decline. Our future liquidity and capital requirements are uncertain. As we market the Essure system on a wide scale basis, we may require additional financing and therefore, may in the future seek to raise additional funds through bank facilities, debt or equity offerings or other sources of capital. Any additional equity or debt financing may be dilutive to stockholders, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants and interest expenses that will affect our financial results. Additional funding may not be available when needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we are unable to obtain additional capital, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate our selling and marketing activities. Our future liquidity and capital requirements will depend upon many factors, including, among others: •the rate of product adoption by doctors and patients; •obtaining government and third-party reimbursement for the Essure procedure; •the liquidity of private insurance systems, as well as the timeliness of payments of government management reimbursement systems; •our ability to maintain our days sales outstanding; •the resources devoted to increasing manufacturing capacity to meet commercial demands; •the potential conversion of our outstanding convertible senior notes; •the resources devoted to developing and conducting sales and marketing and distribution programs; and •the progress and cost of product development programs. 21 Table of Contents Disruptions in the financial markets could affect our ability to obtain debt financing on favorable terms or at all. The U.S. credit markets have experienced significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions which have caused the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive, and in certain cases have resulted in the unavailability of certain types of debt financing. Continued uncertainty in the credit markets may negatively impact our ability to access debt financing on favorable terms or at all. Our liquidity could be adversely impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. At December 31, 2009, we had cash and cash equivalents of $61.7 million (excluding our investments in auction rate securities discussed below). This available cash and cash equivalents are held in accounts at financial institutions and consist of invested cash and cash in our operating accounts. The invested cash is invested in interest bearing money market funds managed by third party financial institutions. These funds invest in direct obligations of the government of the United States and traditional money market funds. We can provide no assurances that access to our invested cash and cash equivalents will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. All of our cash and cash equivalents in our operating accounts are with third party financial institutions. These balances exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limits. While we monitor the cash balances in our operating accounts and adjust the cash balances as appropriate, these cash balances could be impacted if the underlying financial institutions fail or are subject to other adverse conditions in the financial markets. To date we have experienced no loss or lack of access to cash in our operating accounts. A portion of our investment portfolio is in auction rate securities. As of December 31, 2009, we held approximately $43.6 million (par value) of investments consisting entirely of auction rate securities backed by federal and state student loans securities. These auction rate securities have contractual maturities ranging from 2028 through 2047. These investments have characteristics similar to short-term investments, because at pre-determined intervals, generally ranging from 20 to 30 days, there is a new auction process at which the interest rates for these securities are reset to current interest rates. At the end of each such period, we historically have either chosen to roll-over these securities or redeem the securities for cash. During 2008 and 2009, we experienced failed auctions of our auction rate securities and there is no assurance that auctions on these securities in our investment portfolio will succeed in the future. In November 2008, we accepted an offer from UBS, the fund manager with whom we hold our auction rate securities, pursuant to which UBS issued to us Series C-2 Auction Rate Securities Rights, or Rights, which allow us to sell the auction rate securities to UBS at par value during the period beginning June 2010 and ending July 2012. In exchange, the Company released UBS from claims that it may have for damages related to the auction rate securities (other than consequential damages), and we granted UBS the right to sell or otherwise dispose of the auction rate securities on its behalf (so long as we are paid the par value of the auction rate securities upon any disposition). We intend to sell our ARS under the Rights at the inception of the Rights period in June 2010. The Rights are subject to a number of risks. Given the substantial dislocation in the financial markets and among financial services companies, we cannot assure you that UBS will ultimately have the ability to repurchase our auction rate securities at par, or at any other price during the put period described above. We will be required to periodically assess the economic ability of UBS to meet that obligation in assessing the fair value of the Rights. Moreover, if we choose to not exercise the Rights or if UBS is unable to honor the Rights, our ability to liquidate our investments in the near term may 22 Table of Contents be limited, and our ability to fully recover the carrying value of our investments may be limited or non-existent. If issuers of these securities are unable to successfully close future auctions or their credit ratings deteriorate, we may in the future be required to record further impairment charges on these investments. It could take until the final maturity of the underlying notes (up to 38 years) to realize our investments' recorded value. Based on our ability to access our cash and cash equivalents, expected operating cash flows, and our other sources of cash, we do not anticipate that the current lack of liquidity on these investments will affect our ability to continue to operate our business in the ordinary course. However, we can provide no assurance as to when these investments will again become liquid or as to whether we may ultimately have to recognize additional impairment charges in our results of operations with respect to these investments. If the effectiveness and safety of our product are not supported by long-term data, we may not achieve market acceptance and we could be subject to liability. Essure has undergone two clinical studies that have evaluated safety and effectiveness of the Essure procedure: our Phase II and Pivotal Trials. Two additional studies have evaluated safety and bilateral placement in the commercial environment. Current labeling includes Essure's four year effectiveness rate of 99.8%; data beyond four years have been collected and are currently undergoing analysis. If long-term studies or clinical experience indicate that the Essure system is less effective or less safe than our current data suggest, we may not achieve or sustain market acceptance and/or we could be subject to significant liability. If we lose FDA approval or fail to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements in the United States or Internationally, it would delay or prevent us from generating further product revenues. Sales of medical devices outside of the United States are subject to international regulatory requirements that vary widely from country to country. The time required to obtain clearance required by foreign countries may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA clearance, and requirements for licensing may differ significantly from FDA requirements. Many countries in which we currently market or intend to market the Essure system either do not currently regulate medical devices or have minimal registration requirements; however, these countries may develop more extensive regulations in the future, which could delay or prevent us from marketing the Essure system in these countries. The FDA and certain foreign regulatory authorities impose numerous requirements with which medical device manufacturers must comply in order to maintain regulatory approvals. FDA enforcement policy strictly prohibits the promotion of approved medical devices for uses other than those for which the device is specifically approved by the FDA. We are required to adhere to applicable FDA regulations, such as QSR, and similar regulations in other countries, which include testing, control and documentation requirements. Ongoing compliance with QSR and other applicable regulatory requirements are monitored through periodic inspections by federal and state agencies, including the FDA and the California Department of Health Services, and by comparable agencies in other countries. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we may be subject to, among other things, warning letters, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, refusal of the government to grant pre-market clearance or pre-market approval for devices, withdrawal of approvals and criminal prosecution, any of which could negatively impact our business. 23 Table of Contents We may not maintain regulatory approvals for the Essure system, which would delay or prevent us from generating product revenues and would harm our business and force us to curtail or cease operations. Numerous government authorities, both in the United States and internationally, regulate the manufacture and sale of medical devices, including the Essure system. In the United States, the principal regulatory authority is the FDA. The process of obtaining and maintaining required regulatory clearances is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. We, our contract manufacturers and our subcontractors may not meet regulatory quality standards applicable to our manufacturing processes, which could have an adverse effect on our business. As a medical device manufacturer, we are required to register with the FDA and are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA for compliance with the FDA's Quality System Regulation (QSR) requirements, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain good manufacturing practice regulations, including testing, quality control and documentation procedures. In addition, the federal Medical Device Reporting regulations require us to provide information to the FDA whenever there is evidence that reasonably suggests that a device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or, if a malfunction were to occur, could cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements is subject to continual review and is rigorously monitored through periodic inspections by the FDA. Our contract manufacturers, component suppliers and other subcontractors are also required to meet certain standards applicable to their manufacturing processes. We now have two third-party subcontractor manufacturers in Mexico for the Essure system. In April 2004, we received FDA approval to begin manufacturing the Essure product at Accellent, Inc., or Accellent, formerly named Venusa. In September 2009, we received FDA approval to begin manufacturing the Essure system at FlexMed, formerly named Avail Medical, as a second subcontractor manufacturing site in Mexico. Similarly, we have subcontracted with Sterigenics International to handle the sterilization of our products. We cannot assure you that we, our contract manufacturers, component suppliers or other subcontractors will be able to maintain compliance with all regulatory requirements. The failure by us or our contract manufacturers, component suppliers or other subcontractors to achieve or maintain compliance with these requirements or quality standards may disrupt our ability to supply products sufficient to meet demand until compliance is achieved or, in the case of our contract manufacturers, component supplier or subcontractor, until a new manufacturer, supplier or subcontractor has been identified and evaluated. In addition, our failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our products, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could harm our business. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that if we find it necessary to engage new manufacturers, suppliers or subcontractors to satisfy our business requirements that we will be able to locate new manufacturers, suppliers or contractors who are in compliance with regulatory requirements. Our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business. Government or third party reimbursement for the Essure procedure may not be available or may be inadequate, which could adversely affect consumer demand, limit our future product revenues and adversely affect our profitability. Market acceptance of the Essure system in the United States and in international markets will depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement within prevailing healthcare payment systems. Reimbursement systems in international markets vary significantly by country and sometimes by region, and reimbursement approvals must be obtained on a country-by-country basis. Many international 24 Table of Contents markets have government managed healthcare systems that determine reimbursement for new devices and procedures. In most markets, there are private insurance systems as well as government managed systems. Regardless of the type of reimbursement system, we believe that physician advocacy of our product will be required to obtain reimbursement. Availability and extent of continued reimbursement will depend, at least in part, on the clinical and cost effectiveness of our product. We cannot assure that reimbursement for our product will continue to be available in the United States or in international markets under either government or private reimbursement systems, or that those physicians will support and advocate reimbursement for use of our product for all indications intended by us. We may be unable to obtain or maintain reimbursement in any country within a particular time frame, for a particular amount or at all, which would limit our future product revenues and delay or prevent our profitability. In addition, the level of reimbursement offered by prevailing healthcare payment systems may correspondingly affect the level of co-payment that is required by the patient. As an elective procedure, a patient's decision to have the Essure procedure may be impacted by a decline in overall economic conditions as patients are forced to prioritize discretionary spending. Currency exchange rate fluctuations will impact our financial performance. Although a majority of our revenue and operating expenses is denominated in U.S. dollars, and we prepare our financial statements in U.S. dollars in accordance with U.S. GAAP, a portion of our revenue and operating expenses is in foreign currencies. As a result, we are subject to currency risks that could adversely affect our operations, including: •risks resulting from changes in currency exchange rates and the implementation of exchange controls; and •limitations on our ability to reinvest earnings from operations in one country to fund the capital needs of our operations in other countries. Changes in exchange rates will result in increases or decreases in our costs and earnings, and may also affect the book value of our assets located outside the United States and the amount of our equity. Although we have taken steps to minimize our currency exposure by engaging in hedging transactions where we deem it appropriate, we do not know whether our efforts will be successful. Our international operations expose us to additional operational challenges that we might not otherwise face. We are subject to a number of additional risks and expenses due to our international operations. Any of these risks or expenses could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. These risks and expenses include: •difficulties in staffing and managing operations in multiple locations as a result of, among other things, distance, language and cultural differences; •shipping delays; •protectionist laws and business practices that favor local companies; •difficulties in enforcing agreements with and collecting receivables from customers outside the United States; •difficulties and expenses related to implementing internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures; •expenses associated with customizing products for clients in foreign countries; 25 Table of Contents •possible adverse tax consequences; •the inability to obtain favorable third-party reimbursements; •the inability to obtain required regulatory approvals; •governmental currency controls; •changes in foreign regulatory laws governing sales of medical devices; •failure of local laws to provide the same degree of protection against infringement of our intellectual property; •clone or "knock off" products; •political and economic changes and disruptions; and •contractual provisions governed by foreign laws and various trade restrictions, including U.S. prohibitions and restrictions on exports of certain products and technologies to certain nations. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be significantly and adversely affected if certain types of healthcare reform programs are adopted in our key markets and other administration and legislative proposals are enacted into law. Recently, President Obama and members of Congress have proposed significant reforms to the U.S. healthcare system. Both the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives have conducted hearings about U.S. healthcare reform. The Obama administration's fiscal year 2010 budget included proposals to limit Medicare payments, reduce drug spending and increase taxes. In addition, members of Congress have proposed a single-payer healthcare system, a government health insurance option to compete with private plans and other expanded public healthcare measures. In September 2009, the U.S. Senate Finance Committee released a draft of the committee's healthcare reform bill, a bill which included an excise tax on all medical devices, requiring the medical device industry to contribute $4 billion to healthcare reform each year for a period of 10 years. In February 2010, the Obama Administration released highlights of its revamped healthcare reform bill, which includes a medical device manufacturer's excise tax of $20 billion over 10 years that would begin in 2013. It is unclear whether this bill will be passed by Congress at this time because the Democratic controlled Senate no longer has a 60-member majority and may need to use a reconciliation process to pass a version of the Obama Administration's proposed bill. Various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level. We cannot predict what healthcare initiatives, if any, will be implemented at the federal or state level, or the effect any future legislation or regulation will have on us. However, an expansion in government's role in the U.S. healthcare industry may lower reimbursements for our products, reduce medical procedure volumes and adversely affect our business and results of operations, possibly materially. In addition, if the excise tax contained in the proposed legislation is enacted into law, our effective tax rate and results of operations would be adversely affected and our ability to innovate and conduct necessary research and development to remain competitive with large, global companies could be negatively impacted. We may be subject, directly or indirectly, to federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations and, if we are unable to fully comply with such laws, could face substantial penalties. Our operations may be directly or indirectly affected by various broad state and federal healthcare fraud and abuse laws. Such laws include the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and related state anti-kickback laws, which prohibit any person from knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing, purchasing, leasing or ordering of, or arranging for or recommending the furnishing, purchasing, leasing or ordering of an item or service, for which payment may be made under federal 26 Table of Contents healthcare programs, such as Medicaid programs. The federal Stark law and self-referral prohibitions under analogous state laws restrict referrals by physicians and, in some instances, other healthcare providers, practitioners and professionals, to entities with which they have indirect or direct financial relationships for furnishing of designated health services. These healthcare fraud and abuse laws are subject to evolving interpretations by various state and federal enforcement and regulatory authorities. Under current interpretations of the federal false claims act and certain similar state laws, some of these laws may also be subject to enforcement in a qui tam lawsuit brought by a private party "whistleblower," with or without the intervention of the government. If our past or present operations are found to be in violation of these laws and not protected under a statutory exception or regulatory safe harbor provision to the applicable fraud and abuse laws, we, our officers or our employees may be subject to civil or criminal penalties, including large monetary penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment and exclusion from federal healthcare program participation, including the exclusion of our products from use in treatment of Medicaid or other federal healthcare program patients. If federal or state investigations or enforcement actions were to occur, our business and financial condition would be harmed. We may be exposed to product liability claims, and we have only limited insurance coverage. The manufacture and sale of medical products involve an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims and product recalls. We currently maintain product liability insurance with coverage limits of $10.0 million per occurrence and an annual aggregate maximum of $10.0 million, which we believe is comparable to that maintained by other companies of similar size serving similar markets. However, we cannot assure you that product liability claims in connection with clinical trials or commercial sales of the Essure system will not exceed such insurance coverage limits or that such insurance will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Insurance is expensive and in the future may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage, or a recall of our product, could cause our stock price to fall. We may not be able to attract and retain additional key management, sales and marketing and technical personnel, or we may lose existing key management, sales and marketing or technical personnel, which may delay our development and marketing efforts. We depend on a number of key management, sales and marketing and technical personnel. The loss of the services of one or more key employees could delay the achievement of our development and marketing objectives. Our success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain additional highly qualified management, sales and marketing and technical personnel to meet our growth goals. We face intense competition for qualified personnel, many of whom are often subject to competing employment offers, and we do not know whether we will be able to attract and retain such personnel. We are required to recognize expense for stock-based compensation related to employee stock options and other share-based payment awards, and we cannot assure you that the expense that we are required to recognize measures accurately the value of our share-based payment awards and the recognition of this expense could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Medical technology companies like ours have a history of using broad based employee stock option programs to hire, incentivize and retain our workforce in a competitive marketplace. Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted the provisions of Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") ASC 718, Compensation—Stock Compensation, ("ASC 718"). ASC 718 established accounting for stock-based awards exchanged for employee services. Accordingly, stock-based compensation cost is measured at grant date, based on the fair value of the award which is computed using the Black-Scholes option valuation model, and is recognized as expense over the employee requisite service period. The 27 Table of Contents application of ASC 718 requires the use of an option pricing model to determine the fair value of share-based payment awards. This determination of fair value is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables. These variables include, but are not limited to, our expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards and actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors. Option pricing models were developed for use in estimating the value of traded options that have no vesting or hedging restrictions and are fully transferable. Because our employee stock options have certain characteristics that are significantly different from traded options, and because changes in the subjective assumptions can materially affect the estimated value, the existing valuation models may not provide an accurate measure of the fair value of our employee stock options. Although the fair value of employee stock options is determined in accordance with ASC 718 using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, that value may not be indicative of the fair value observed in a willing buyer/willing seller market transaction. As a result of the application of ASC 718, our net income (losses) for the fiscal years 2009, 2008, 2007, and 2006 were lower (higher) than they would have been had we not been required to adopt ASC 718. This will continue to be the case for future periods. We cannot predict the effect that this adverse impact on our reported operating results will have on the trading price of our common stock. In addition, this could impact our ability to utilize broad based employee stock plans to reward employees and could result in a competitive disadvantage to us in the employee marketplace. Future changes in financial accounting standards or practices or existing taxation rules or practices may cause adverse unexpected revenue fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards or practices or a change in existing taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements and taxation practice have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. Our 2.25% convertible senior notes present certain liquidity and other risks. In February 2007, we issued an aggregate principal amount of $86,250,000 of our 2.25% convertible senior notes due 2027. The net share settlement feature of the notes may reduce our liquidity. If the notes are convertible, then upon conversion, holders will receive cash and, if applicable, shares of our common stock based on an initial conversion rate, subject to adjustment, of 35.8616 shares per $1,000 principal amount of notes (which represents an initial conversion price of $27.89 per share), in certain circumstances. We must settle at least a portion of our conversion obligation in cash, however we may not have sufficient funds to pay in full the cash obligation upon such conversion. On each of February 15, 2012, February 15, 2017 and February 15, 2022, holders of the notes may require us to purchase, for cash, all or a portion of their notes at 100% of their principal amount, plus any accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, that date. If a fundamental change occurs (as defined in the indenture governing the notes), holders of the notes may require us to repurchase, for cash, all or a portion of their notes. In addition, upon conversion of the notes, we must pay the principal return in cash. We may not have sufficient funds to pay the interest, purchase price, repurchase price or principal return when due. In addition, the terms of any borrowing agreements which we may enter into from time to time may require early repayment of borrowings under circumstances similar to those constituting a fundamental change. These agreements may also make our repurchase of notes, or the cash payment due upon conversion of the notes, an event of default under the agreements. If we fail to pay interest on the notes, to repurchase the notes or to pay the cash payment due upon conversion when required, we will be in default under the indenture for the notes. 28 Table of Contents The indenture for the notes will not restrict our ability to incur in additional indebtedness. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences on our future operations, including: •making it more difficult for us to meet our payment and other obligations under the notes and our other outstanding debt; •resulting in an event of default if we fail to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in any debt agreements that we may have, which could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable; •reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; •limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industry in which we operate and the general economy; and •placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged. Provisions in our charter documents, Delaware law and the indenture for our 2.25% convertible senior notes due 2027 could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party, even if the acquisition would be favorable to you. Protections against unsolicited takeovers in our rights plan, charter and bylaws may reduce or eliminate our stockholders' ability to resell their shares at a premium over market price. We have a stockholders rights plan which expires on February 27, 2012. Our rights plan may prevent an unsolicited change of control of our company. Our rights plan may adversely affect the market price of our common stock or the ability of stockholders to participate in a transaction in which they might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. In addition, the issuance of preferred stock or common stock upon exercise of rights issued under the plan could dilute the voting, liquidation and other economic rights of our stockholders and make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions relating to issuance of preferred stock, special meetings of stockholders and advance notification procedures for stockholder proposals that could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing an unsolicited change in the control of our company. Our charter provides for our board of directors to be divided into three classes of directors, serving staggered three-year terms. The classified board provision could have the effect of discouraging a third party from making a tender offer or attempting to obtain control of us. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years after the date that such stockholder became an interested stockholder, unless certain conditions are met. Section 203 may discourage, delay or prevent an acquisition of our company even at a price our stockholders may find attractive. If a "fundamental change" (as defined in the indenture governing the 2.25% convertible senior notes due 2007), occurs, holders of the notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their notes. In the event of a "make-whole fundamental change (as defined in the indenture governing the notes)," we also may be required to increase the conversion rate applicable to the notes surrendered for conversion in connection with that make-whole fundamental change. In addition, the indenture for the notes prohibits us from engaging in certain mergers or acquisitions unless, among other things, the surviving entity assumes our obligations under the notes. These and other provisions, including the provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law, could 29 Table of Contents prevent or deter a third party from acquiring us even where the acquisition could be beneficial to our security holders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 