ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, the following factors should be considered carefully in evaluating Conceptus and our business. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect us. Other risks and uncertainties that we do not presently consider to be material or of which we are not presently aware, may become important factors that affect us in the future. You should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. We are dependent on the Essure system, which is currently our only commercial product. If the Essure system fails to gain market acceptance, our business will suffer. We are dependent on the Essure system, which is currently our only commercial product and constitutes most all of our sales revenues. Since receiving FDA approval to market the Essure system in November 2002, the Essure system has gained market share in the contraception market, especially in the permanent birth control market. However, the contraception market remains dominated by procedures that are well established among physicians and patients and are routinely taught to new physicians. As a result, we believe that recommendations and endorsements by physicians continue to be essential for market acceptance of our product. Physicians and patients may not accept our product and we may not be able to obtain their recommendations or endorsements in sufficient amounts to regain and sustain profitability. The provision of permanent birth control (“PBC”) is diffuse, with over 30,000 U.S. gynecologists and many other general practitioners performing PBC procedures. Physicians are traditionally slow to adopt new products and treatment practices, partly because of perceived liability risks. If the Essure system does not achieve significant market acceptance among physicians, patients and healthcare payers, even if reimbursement levels are sufficient and necessary U.S. and international regulatory approvals are maintained, we may fail to achieve significant revenues or regain and sustain profitability. Moreover, without additional product offerings our business may be negatively impacted. If we are unable to compete effectively, demand for the Essure system may be reduced. The medical device industry is highly competitive and is characterized by rapid and significant technological change. To compete successfully, we need to continue to demonstrate the advantages of our Essure products and technologies over both new and well-established alternative procedures, products and technologies, and convince physicians and other healthcare decision makers of the advantages of our products and technologies. As we market the Essure system, we compete with: • other methods of birth control, in particular tubal ligation; • other companies that may be developing birth control devices that are similar to or otherwise compete with the Essure system; • other methods of non-permanent birth control, including devices such as intrauterine devices, or IUDs, vaginal rings, condoms and prescription drugs such as the birth control pill, injectable and implantable contraceptives and patches; and • other surgical procedures for permanent birth control, mechanical devices and other contraceptive methods, including existing methods of reversible birth control for both women and men. Many of our competitors have access to greater resources to develop and market a competitive product than we do. In addition, new competition and products may arise due to consolidation within the industry and other companies may develop products that could compete with the Essure system. Our competitive position also depends on: • widespread awareness, acceptance and adoption of our Essure system; • our ability to respond promptly to medical and technological changes through the development and commercialization of new products; 16 Table of Contents • availability of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers, insurance companies and others for the Essure system; • the manufacture and delivery of our products in sufficient volumes on time, and accurately predicting and controlling costs associated with manufacturing, installation, warranty and maintenance of the products; • our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; • the extent of our patent protection or our ability to otherwise develop proprietary products and processes; and • securing sufficient capital resources to expand our sales and marketing efforts. These and other competitive factors may render the Essure system obsolete or noncompetitive or reduce demand for the Essure system, each of which could be material. Our marketing and advertising programs may not be successful. Our marketing and advertising programs, which are aimed at increasing physician and consumer awareness for our Essure system, are generally costly and may have limited success. Consumer campaigns require consumers to make contact with an Essure trained physician, be preauthorized for insurance reimbursement and then be scheduled for the procedure. Many of these steps are not within our control, and the advertising programs may not result in revenue generation commensurate with their costs. Physicians are busy and have little time to spend with their patients. Our marketing and advertising programs directed at physicians may not be effective at encouraging the physicians to discuss the Essure system with their patients and thus may not be cost effective. We may experience disruption in supply due to our dependence on our contract manufacturers to supply our commercial product requirements and our inability to obtain suppliers for certain components for our products. Our suppliers may encounter problems during manufacturing due to a variety of reasons, including failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, failure to comply with applicable regulations, equipment malfunctions, labor shortages or environmental factors. In addition, we and our third party manufacturers purchase both raw materials used in our product and finished goods from various suppliers, and we rely on a single source supplier for certain components of our product. Although we anticipate that we have adequate sources of supply and/or inventory of these components to handle our production needs for the foreseeable future, if we or our contract manufacturers are unable to secure on a timely basis sufficient quantities of the materials we depend on to manufacture our products, if we encounter delays or contractual or other difficulties in our relationships with these suppliers, or if we cannot find alternate suppliers at an acceptable cost, then the manufacture of our products may be disrupted, which could increase our costs and have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely on a third party to perform shipping and other logistics functions on our behalf. A failure or disruption at our logistics provider would adversely impact our business Customer service is a critical element of our sales strategy. We utilize third-party logistics providers to handle our logistics and shipping activities in both the United States and France. If any of our logistics providers suffers an interruption in its business, or experiences delays, disruptions or quality control problems in its operations, or we have to change and qualify alternative logistics providers for our goods, shipments to our customers may be delayed and our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents Our intellectual property rights may not provide meaningful commercial protection for the Essure system, which could enable third parties to use our technology, or very similar technology, and could impair our ability to compete in the market. We rely on patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws to limit the ability of others to compete with us using the same or similar technology in the United States and other countries. However, as described below, these laws afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights to the extent necessary to sustain any competitive advantage we may have. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting their proprietary rights abroad. These problems can be caused by the absence of rules and methods for defending intellectual property rights. We will be able to protect our technology from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that they are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. The patent positions of companies developing medical devices, including our patent position, generally are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions concerning the enforceability of such patents against alleged infringement. Recent judicial decisions have established new case law and a reinterpretation of previous patent case law, and consequently, we cannot assure you that historical legal standards surrounding the questions of infringement, patentability and validity will be applied in future cases. In addition, legislation has in the past and may in the future be introduced in the United States Congress that could limit the ability of medical device manufacturers in the future to obtain patents on surgical and medical procedures that are not performed by, or as a part of, devices or compositions that are themselves patentable. Our ability to protect our proprietary methods and procedures may be compromised by the enactment of this legislation or any other limitation or change in the patentability of medical and surgical methods and procedures. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may therefore diminish the value of our intellectual property. We own, or control through licenses, a variety of issued patents and pending patent applications. However, the patents on which we rely may be challenged and invalidated, and our patent applications may not result in issued patents. Moreover, our patents and patent applications may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products. We also face the risk that others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies. Our ability to compete effectively will depend substantially on our ability to develop and maintain proprietary aspects of our technology. Our issued patents, any future patents that may be issued as a result of our U.S. or foreign patent applications, or the patents under which we have license rights may not offer any degree of protection against competitive products. Any patents that may be issued or licensed to us or any of our patent applications could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented in the future. We have taken security measures to protect our proprietary information, especially proprietary information that is not covered by patents or patent applications. These measures, however, may not provide adequate protection of our trade secrets or other proprietary information. We seek to protect our proprietary information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, collaborators and consultants. Nevertheless, employees, collaborators or consultants could still disclose our proprietary information and we may not be able to protect our trade secrets in a meaningful way. If we lose any employees, we may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or other trade secrets by those former employees despite the existence of a nondisclosure and confidentiality agreement and other contractual restrictions designed and intended to protect our proprietary technology. In addition, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. If we cannot operate our business without infringing third-party intellectual property rights, our prospects will suffer. Our success will depend in part on our ability to operate without infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. We may be exposed to future litigation by third parties based on claims that our 18 Table of Contents product infringes the intellectual property rights of others. There are numerous issued patents in the medical device industry and, the validity and breadth of medical device patents involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. Our competitors may assert that our product and the methods we employ may be covered by United States or foreign patents held by them. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending patent applications of which we are unaware that may later result in issued patents that our product may infringe. There could also be existing patents of which we are unaware that our product may inadvertently infringe. If we lose a patent infringement lawsuit, we could be prevented from selling our product unless we can obtain a license to use technology or ideas covered by that patent or are able to redesign the product to avoid infringement. A license may not be available to us on terms acceptable to us, or at all, and we may not be able to redesign our product to avoid any infringement. If we are not successful in obtaining a license or redesigning our product, we may be unable to sell our product and our business would suffer. We may in the future be a party to patent litigation, which is costly and diverts our management’s attention, and we may be subject to additional patent litigation in the future. The medical device industry has been characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights, and companies in the industry have used intellectual property litigation to gain a competitive advantage. We may in the future become a party to patent infringement claims and litigation or interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, to determine the priority of inventions. The defense and prosecution of these matters are both costly and time consuming. We may need to commence proceedings against others to enforce our patents, to protect our trade secrets or know-how or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. These proceedings would result in substantial expense to us and significant diversion of effort by our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in new litigation or interference proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties or require us to seek licenses from third parties. Although patent and intellectual property disputes in the medical device area have often been settled through licensing or similar arrangements, costs associated with such arrangements may be substantial and could include ongoing royalties. We may be unable to obtain necessary licenses on satisfactory terms, if at all. Adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling the Essure system. Any lawsuits we initiate could be expensive, take significant time and divert management’s attention from other business activities. Litigation also puts our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Additionally, we may provoke third parties to assert counterclaims against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially valuable. The occurrence of any of these events may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to manage any expansion or acquisition, our business could be impaired. We may in the future acquire one or more technologies, products or companies that complement our business. We may not be able to effectively integrate these into our business and any such acquisition or expansion could bring additional risks, exposures and challenges to our company. For example, in January 2012, we announced our decision to discontinue our promotion of the GYNECARE THERMACHOICE Uterine Balloon Therapy System to U.S. OB/GYN physician offices. This change has enabled the sales force to fully focus their time on growing the Essure business. In addition, acquisitions may dilute our earnings per share, disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses, subject us to liabilities and increase our risk of litigation, all of which could harm our business. If we use cash to acquire technologies, products, companies or expand operations, it may divert resources otherwise available for other 19 Table of Contents purposes. If we use our common stock to acquire technologies, products or companies, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution. If we fail to manage any expansion or acquisition, our business could be impaired. Current worldwide economic uncertainty may adversely affect our business and prospects. Market acceptance of the Essure system in the United States and other countries is dependent upon the medical device purchasing practices of our customers, patient demand for our products and procedures and the reimbursement of patient’s medical expenses by government healthcare programs and third-party payers. The continuing uncertainty surrounding the global economy has caused and may continue to cause the purchasers of medical devices to decrease their medical device purchasing activities. Global economic issues could result in delayed payment of Essure purchases. Economic uncertainty has and may result in cost-conscious consumers making fewer elective trips to their physicians and specialists, which in turn would adversely affect demand for our products and procedures. Furthermore, governments and other third party payers around the world facing tightening budgets could move to further reduce the reimbursement rates or the scope of coverage offered, which could adversely affect sales of our products. If the current adverse economic conditions continue, our business and prospects may be adversely affected. The fluctuation of our quarterly results may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our revenues and results of operations have in the past and will likely vary in the future from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and any of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. The primary factors that may affect us include the following: • the extent to which the Essure system gains market acceptance; • the rate at which physicians are trained to perform the Essure procedure; • our ability to increase physician utilization rates of the Essure system; • the timing of sales of our products and services; • actions relating to reimbursement matters; • increases in sales and marketing, product development or administration expenses; • the rate at which we establish U.S. and international distribution or marketing partners and the degree of their success; • the introduction and marketing of competitive products; • costs related to acquisitions of technology or businesses; • trends in OB/GYN physician office visits; and • foreign exchange fluctuations. You should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. It is likely that in some future quarters, our results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In this event, the price of our common stock may fall. Our stock price is volatile. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be volatile. We believe that a variety of factors could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including: • announcements and rumors of developments related to our business, including changes in reimbursement rates or regulatory requirements, proposed and completed acquisitions, or the industry in which we compete: • published studies and reports relating to the comparative efficacy of products and markets in which we participate; 20 Table of Contents • published studies and reports relating to market share of our product compared to competitor products; • quarterly fluctuations in our actual or anticipated operating results and order levels; • general conditions in the worldwide economy; • announcements of technological innovations: • new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • developments in patents or other intellectual property rights and litigation; • results of clinical investigations for both approved and experimental aspects of the Essure system; and • developments in relationships with our customers and suppliers. In addition, the stock market in general and the markets for shares of “high-tech” companies have experienced extreme price fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. Any such fluctuations in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and the market price of our common stock may decline. We have been in a cumulative net loss position since inception, and we may not be able to remain profitable in the future. We have been in a cumulative net loss position since inception. Although we earned net income for fiscal 2012, we may again incur operating losses, particularly on a quarterly basis as we continue sales and marketing efforts globally and engage in research and development activity for the development of our next generation of Essure products. An operating loss may occur if sufficient revenues are not generated to offset expenses. Losses have caused and may continue to cause our stockholders’ equity and net current assets to decrease. Our inability to remain profitable would likely negatively impact the market price of our common stock and our ability to satisfy our obligations in the future. Our future liquidity and capital requirements are uncertain. As we market the Essure system on a wide scale basis, we may require additional financing and therefore, may in the future seek to raise additional funds through bank facilities, debt or equity offerings or other sources of capital. Any additional equity or debt financing may be dilutive to stockholders, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants and interest expenses that will affect our financial results. Additional funding may not be available when needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we are unable to obtain additional capital, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate our selling and marketing activities. Our future liquidity and capital requirements will depend upon many factors, including, among others: • the rate of product adoption by doctors and patients; • obtaining government and third-party reimbursement for the Essure system; • the liquidity of private insurance systems, as well as the timeliness of payments of government management reimbursement systems; • our ability to maintain our days sales outstanding; • the resources devoted to increasing manufacturing capacity to meet commercial demands; • mergers and acquisitions activity, if any; • the resources devoted to developing and conducting sales and marketing and distribution programs; and • the progress and cost of product development programs. 21 Table of Contents Our liquidity could be negatively impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. As of December 31, 2012, we had unrestricted cash and cash equivalents of $29.5 million. In addition we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types and maturities. These securities are classified as available-for-sale. As of December 31, 2012 we had short and long-term investments of $53.6 million recorded at fair value. Cash and cash equivalents if invested are in interest bearing money market funds managed by third party financial institutions. These funds invest in direct obligations of the government of the United States and traditional money market funds. We can provide no assurances that access to our invested cash and cash equivalents will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. Our 5.0% convertible senior notes due 2031 present certain liquidity and other risks. On December 23, 2011, we issued $50.0 million aggregate principal amount of 5.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2031 (“2031 Notes”), in exchange for an identical amount of our outstanding 2.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2027 (“2027 Notes”). The terms of the 2031 Notes provide that holders of the 2031 Notes may require us to purchase, for cash, all or a portion of their notes at 100% of par, plus any accrued and unpaid interest, on each of December 20, 2014, December 20, 2018, December 20, 2021 and December 20, 2026. In addition, if a fundamental change occurs (as defined in the indenture governing the 2031 Notes), holders of the 2031 Notes may require us to repurchase, for cash, all or a portion of their notes. We may not have sufficient funds to pay the interest or repurchase price when due. In addition, the terms of any borrowing agreements which we may enter into from time to time may require early repayment of borrowings under circumstances similar to those constituting a fundamental change. These agreements may also make our repurchase of the 2031 notes an event of default under the agreements. If we fail to pay interest on the 2031 Notes or repurchase the 2031 Notes when required, we will be in default under the indenture for the 2031 Notes. The indenture for the 2031 Notes will not restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences on our future operations, including: • making it more difficult for us to meet our payment and other obligations under the 2031 Notes and our other outstanding debt; • resulting in an event of default if we fail to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in any debt agreements that we may have, which could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable; • reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industry in which we operate and the general economy; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged. If the effectiveness and safety of the Essure system are not supported by long-term data, we may not achieve or sustain market acceptance and we could be subject to liability. The Essure procedure has undergone two clinical studies, Phase II and Pivotal Trials, which have evaluated its safety and effectiveness. Current labeling includes Essure’s five-year effectiveness rate of 99.83%; data beyond five years has been collected and is currently undergoing analysis. Two additional studies have evaluated safety and bilateral placement in the commercial environment. In 2010, the third generation of the Essure procedure, or ESS305, received FDA approval for an improved bilateral placement rate of 96.9%, an improvement from the previous generation device’s 94.6% bilateral placement rate and an improved hysteroscopic time of less than 10 minutes reduced from the previous generation Essure’s thirteen minute hysteroscopic time. If long-term studies or clinical experience indicate that the Essure system is less effective or less safe than our current data suggest, we may not achieve or sustain market acceptance and/or we could be subject to significant liability. 22 Table of Contents If we lose FDA approval or fail to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements in the United States or internationally, it would delay or prevent us from generating further product revenues. Numerous government authorities, both in the United States and internationally, regulate the manufacture and sale of medical devices, including the Essure system. In the United States, the principal regulatory authority is the FDA. Sales of medical devices outside of the United States are subject to international regulatory requirements that vary widely from country to country. The time required to obtain clearance required by foreign countries may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA clearance, and requirements for licensing may differ significantly from FDA requirements. Many countries in which we currently market or intend to market the Essure system either do not currently regulate medical devices or have minimal registration requirements; however, these countries may develop more extensive regulations in the future, which could delay or prevent us from marketing the Essure system in these countries. The FDA and certain foreign regulatory authorities impose numerous requirements with which medical device manufacturers must comply in order to maintain regulatory approvals. FDA enforcement policy strictly prohibits the promotion of approved medical devices for uses other than those for which the device is specifically approved by the FDA. We are required to adhere to applicable FDA regulations, such as Quality System Regulation (“QSR”), and similar regulations in other countries, which include testing, control and documentation requirements. Ongoing compliance with QSR and other applicable regulatory requirements are monitored through periodic inspections by federal and state agencies, including the FDA and the California Department of Health Services, and by comparable agencies in other countries. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we may be subject to, among other things, warning letters, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, refusal of the government to grant pre-market clearance or pre-market approval for devices, withdrawal of approvals and criminal prosecution, any of which could negatively impact our business. If the FDA or another regulatory agency determines that we have promoted off-label use of our products, we may be subject to various penalties, including civil or criminal penalties. The FDA and other regulatory agencies actively enforce regulations prohibiting promotion of off-label uses and the promotion of products for which marketing clearance has not been obtained. If the FDA or another regulatory agency determines that our promotional materials or training constitutes promotion of an unapproved use, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. Although our policy is to refrain from statements that could be considered off-label promotion of our products, the FDA or another regulatory agency could disagree and conclude that we have engaged in off-label promotion. Government or third party reimbursement for the Essure procedure may not be available or may be inadequate, which could adversely affect consumer demand, limit our future product revenues and adversely affect our profitability. Market acceptance of the Essure procedure in the United States and in international markets will depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement within prevailing healthcare payment systems. Reimbursement systems in international markets vary significantly by country and sometimes by region, and reimbursement approvals must be obtained on a country-by-country basis. Many international markets have government managed healthcare systems that determine reimbursement for new devices and procedures. In most markets, there are private insurance systems as well as government managed systems. Regardless of the type of reimbursement system, we believe that physician advocacy of our product will be required to obtain reimbursement. Availability and extent of continued reimbursement will depend, at least in part, on the clinical and cost effectiveness of our product. We cannot ensure that reimbursement for our product will continue to be available in the United States or in international markets under either government or private reimbursement systems, or 23 Table of Contents that those physicians will support and advocate reimbursement for use of our product for all indications intended by us. We may be unable to obtain or maintain reimbursement in any country within a particular time frame, for a particular amount or at all, which would limit our future product revenues and delay or prevent our profitability. For example, our business had been negatively impacted by an October 2010 Ministry of France ruling that restricted the reimbursement of hysteroscopic sterilizations including our Essure system until these reimbursement restrictions were recently removed effective December 14, 2012. Our sales price in France includes Value Added Tax (“VAT”) charged to customers at a rate of 5.5%. The 5.5% rate is mandated by the French Social Security Administration. In July 2011 the French Customs Authority assessed an import VAT of 19.6% for all Essure devices shipped to France. We are currently working with the Customs Authority to reverse their 2011 VAT assessment; however we may not be able to obtain the reduced import VAT rate. The higher VAT rate could reduce our future profitability and cash flows as we may be required to pay import VAT at a higher rate than we charge our customers. The adoption of healthcare reform in the United States and the uncertainty surrounding the implementation of these reforms could harm our business and prospects. In recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant change driven by various efforts to reduce costs, trends toward managed care, reductions in Medicare and Medicaid programs, consolidation of healthcare distribution companies and collective purchasing arrangements by office-based healthcare practitioners. The effect of U.S. health care reform on our business is uncertain, including the implementation of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (“ACA”) adopted in March 2010. Among other things, the ACA requires the medical device industry to subsidize healthcare reform in the form of a 2.3% excise tax on U.S. sales of certain medical devices beginning in 2013. This excise tax applies to our products. U.S. net product sales represented 78% and 76% of our worldwide net product sales in fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively. Various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level. The ACA and other future legislation could reduce medical procedure volumes and impact the demand for our products or the prices at which we sell our products. In addition, the excise tax will increase our costs of doing business. The impact of current and future healthcare reform measures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. Public debate of these issues will likely continue in the future. Healthcare reform proposals and medical cost containment measures in the United States and in many foreign countries could: • limit the use of our products and treatments; • reduce reimbursement available for such use; • further tax the sale or use of our products; or • adversely affect the use of new therapies for which our products may be targeted. These reforms, cost containment measures and new taxes, including the uncertainty in the medical community regarding their nature and effect, could have an adverse effect on our customers’ purchasing decisions regarding our products and treatments and could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Changes in laws affecting the healthcare industry could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. We operate in a highly regulated industry. As a result, governmental actions may adversely affect our business, operations or financial condition, including: • new laws, regulations or judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations or decisions, related to health care availability, method of delivery and payment for health care products and services; 24 Table of Contents • changes in the FDA and foreign regulatory approval processes that may delay or prevent the approval of new products and treatments and result in lost market opportunity; • changes in FDA and foreign regulations that may require additional safety monitoring, labeling changes, restrictions on product distribution or use, or other measures after the introduction of our products and treatments to market, which could increase our costs of doing business, adversely affect the future permitted uses of approved products or treatments, or otherwise adversely affect the market for our products and treatments; and • new laws, regulations and judicial decisions affecting pricing or marketing practices. We anticipate that the government will continue to scrutinize our industry closely and that additional regulation by governmental authorities may increase compliance costs, exposure to litigation and other adverse effects to our operations. We, our contract manufacturers and our subcontractors may not meet regulatory quality standards applicable to our manufacturing processes, which could have an adverse effect on our business. As a medical device manufacturer, we are required to register with the FDA and are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA for compliance with the FDA’s QSR requirements, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain good manufacturing practice regulations, including testing, quality control and documentation procedures. In addition, the federal Medical Device Reporting regulations require us to provide information to the FDA whenever there is evidence that reasonably suggests that a device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or, if a malfunction were to occur, could cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements is subject to continual review and is rigorously monitored through periodic inspections by the FDA. Our contract manufacturers, component suppliers and other subcontractors are also required to meet certain standards applicable to their manufacturing processes. We have two third-party subcontractor manufacturers in Mexico that produce products for the Essure system. In April 2004, we received FDA approval to begin manufacturing the Essure product at Accellent, Inc. In September 2009, we received FDA approval for FlexMedical (formerly Avail Manufacturing) to begin manufacturing product for the Essure system, as a second subcontractor manufacturing site. We cannot assure you that we, our contract manufacturers, component suppliers or other subcontractors will be able to maintain compliance with all regulatory requirements. The failure by us or our contract manufacturers, component suppliers or other subcontractors to achieve or maintain compliance with these requirements or quality standards may disrupt our ability to supply products sufficient to meet demand until compliance is achieved or, in the case of our contract manufacturers, component supplier or subcontractor, until a new manufacturer, supplier or subcontractor has been identified and evaluated. In addition, our failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our products, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could harm our business. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that if we find it necessary to engage new manufacturers, suppliers or subcontractors to satisfy our business requirements that we will be able to locate new manufacturers, suppliers or contractors who are in compliance with regulatory requirements. Our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our new Costa Rican manufacturing plant will require qualification and FDA approval. If we fail to qualify the plant or incur any delays this could have a material adverse impact on our business. We utilize distributors for a portion of our sales, the loss of which could harm our revenues in the territory serviced by these distributors. We have strategic relationships with a number of key distributors for sales and service of our products, principally in foreign countries. If these strategic relationships are terminated and not replaced, our revenues and/or ability to service our products in the territories serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected. 25 Table of Contents Currency exchange rate fluctuations will impact our financial performance. Although a majority of our revenue and operating expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars, and we prepare our financial statements in U.S. dollars in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”), a portion of our revenue and operating expenses are in foreign currencies. As a result, we are subject to currency risks that could adversely affect our operations, including: • risks resulting from changes in currency exchange rates and the implementation of exchange controls; and • limitations on our ability to reinvest earnings from operations in one country to fund the capital needs of our operations in other countries. Changes in exchange rates will result in increases or decreases in our costs and earnings, and may also affect the book value of our assets located outside the United States and the amount of our equity. Although we have taken steps to minimize our currency exposure by engaging in hedging transactions where we deem it appropriate, we do not know whether our efforts will be successful. Our international operations expose us to additional operational challenges that we might not otherwise face. We are subject to a number of risks and expenses due to our international operations. Any of these risks or expenses could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. These risks and expenses include: • difficulties in staffing and managing operations in multiple locations as a result of, among other things, distance, language and cultural differences; • shipping delays; • protectionist laws and business practices that favor local companies; • difficulties in enforcing agreements with and collecting receivables from customers outside the United States; • difficulties and expenses related to implementing internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures; • expenses associated with customizing products for clients in foreign countries; • possible adverse tax consequences; • the inability to obtain favorable third-party reimbursements; • the inability to obtain required regulatory approvals; • governmental currency controls; • changes in foreign regulatory laws governing sales of medical devices; • failure of local laws to provide the same degree of protection against infringement of our intellectual property; • clone or “knock off” products; • political and economic changes and disruptions; • contractual provisions governed by foreign laws and various trade restrictions, including U.S. prohibitions and restrictions on exports of certain products and technologies to certain nations; and • buildup of excess inventory at foreign distributor locations. 26 Table of Contents We may be subject, directly or indirectly, to federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations and, if we are unable to fully comply with such laws, could face substantial penalties. Our operations may be directly or indirectly affected by various broad state and federal healthcare fraud and abuse laws. Such laws include the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and related state anti-kickback laws, which prohibit any person from knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing, purchasing, leasing or ordering of, or arranging for or recommending the furnishing, purchasing, leasing or ordering of an item or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs, such as Medicaid programs. The federal Stark law and self-referral prohibitions under analogous state laws restrict referrals by physicians and, in some instances, other healthcare providers, practitioners and professionals, to entities with which they have indirect or direct financial relationships for furnishing of designated health services. These healthcare fraud and abuse laws are subject to evolving interpretations by various state and federal enforcement and regulatory authorities. Under current interpretations of the federal false claims act and certain similar state laws, some of these laws may also be subject to enforcement in a qui tam lawsuit brought by a private party “whistleblower,” with or without the intervention of the government. If our past or present operations are found to be in violation of these laws and not protected under a statutory exception or regulatory safe harbor provision to the applicable fraud and abuse laws, we, our officers or our employees may be subject to civil or criminal penalties, including large monetary penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment and exclusion from federal healthcare program participation, including the exclusion of our products from use in treatment of Medicaid or other federal healthcare program patients. If federal or state investigations or enforcement actions were to occur, our business and financial condition would be harmed. We may be exposed to product liability claims, and we have limited insurance coverage. The manufacture and sale of medical products involve an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims and product recalls. We currently maintain product liability insurance with coverage limits of $10.0 million per occurrence and an annual aggregate maximum of $10.0 million, which we believe is comparable to that maintained by other companies of similar size serving similar markets. However, we cannot assure you that product liability claims in connection with clinical trials or commercial sales of the Essure system will not exceed such insurance coverage limits or that such insurance will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Insurance is expensive and in the future may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage, or a recall of our product, could cause our stock price to fall. We may not be able to attract and retain additional key management, sales and marketing and technical personnel, or we may lose existing key management, sales and marketing or technical personnel, which may delay our development and marketing efforts. We depend on a number of key management, sales and marketing and technical personnel. The loss of the services of one or more key employees could delay the achievement of our development and marketing objectives. Our success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain additional highly qualified management, sales and marketing and technical personnel to meet our growth goals. We face intense competition for qualified personnel, many of whom are often subject to competing employment offers, and we do not know whether we will be able to attract and retain such personnel. In January 2012, we announced a decision to discontinue our promotion of the GYNECARE THERMACHOICE Uterine Balloon Therapy System to U.S. OB/GYN physician offices. In connection with this decision, in January 2012 we announced a reduction in workforce of approximately 13%, primarily in our U.S. field sales organization in order to focus our sales efforts on growing the Essure business. These staff reductions may give rise to uncertainty, which makes it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel, and may impact our ability to execute on our business strategy. 27 Table of Contents Disruption of critical information systems or material breaches in the security of our systems could harm our business, customer relationships and financial condition. Information technology helps us operate efficiently, interface with customers, maintain financial accuracy and efficiency and accurately produce our financial statements. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. If our data management systems do not effectively collect, store, process and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software deficiencies or human error, our ability to effectively plan, forecast and execute our business plan and comply with applicable laws and regulations will be impaired, perhaps materially. Any such impairment could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the timeliness with which we report our internal and external operating results. Our business requires us to use and store customer, employee and business partner personally identifiable information (“PII”). This may include names, addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, contact preferences, tax identification numbers and payment account information. We require user names and passwords in order to access our information technology systems. We also use encryption and authentication technologies to secure the transmission and storage of data. These security measures may be compromised as a result of third-party security breaches, employee error, malfeasance, faulty password management or other irregularity, and result in persons obtaining unauthorized access to our data or accounts. Third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing user names, passwords or other sensitive information, which may in turn be used to access our information technology systems. Any such compromise of our data security and access, public disclosure, or loss of personal or confidential business information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, and regulatory penalties, disrupt our operations, damage our reputation and customers’ willingness to transact business with us, and subject us to additional costs and liabilities which could adversely affect our business We devote significant resources to network security, data encryption and other security measures to protect our systems and data, but these security measures cannot provide absolute security. We may experience a breach of our systems and may be unable to protect sensitive data. The costs to us to eliminate or alleviate network security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in unexpected interruptions, delays, cessation of service and may harm our business operations. Moreover, if a computer security breach affects our systems or results in the unauthorized release of PII, our reputation and brand could be materially damaged and use of the Company’s products and services could decrease. We would also be exposed to a risk of loss or litigation and potential liability, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Provisions in our charter documents, Delaware law and the indenture for our 2031 Notes could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party, even if the acquisition would be favorable to stockholders. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions relating to issuance of preferred stock, special meetings of stockholders and advance notification procedures for stockholder proposals that could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing an unsolicited change in the control of our company. Our charter provides for our board of directors to be divided into three classes of directors, serving staggered three-year terms. The classified board provision could have the effect of discouraging a third party from making a tender offer or attempting to obtain control of us. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of 28 Table of Contents three years after the date that such stockholder became an interested stockholder, unless certain conditions are met. Section 203 may discourage, delay or prevent an acquisition of our company even at a price our stockholders may find attractive. If a “fundamental change” (as defined in the indenture governing the 2031 Notes), occurs, holders of the notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their notes. In the event of a “make-whole fundamental change (as defined in the indenture governing the notes),” we also may be required to increase the conversion rate applicable to the notes surrendered for conversion in connection with that make-whole fundamental change. In addition, the indenture prohibits us from engaging in certain mergers or acquisitions unless, among other things, the surviving entity assumes our obligations under the notes. These and other provisions, including the provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law, could prevent or deter a third party from acquiring us even where the acquisition could be beneficial to our security holders. Our effective tax rate may fluctuate and we may incur obligations in tax jurisdictions in excess of amounts that have been accrued. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. We take certain income tax positions on our tax returns for which we reserve additional taxes if it is more likely than not, they will not withstand challenge by tax authorities. We are subject to the potential for tax audits in various jurisdictions, including the United States, and tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. We regularly evaluate the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision and tax reserves. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes could have a material impact on our net income and financial condition. In addition, our effective tax rate may be lower or higher than experienced in the past due to numerous factors, including a change in the mix of our profitability from country to country and changes in tax laws. Any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements. Our financial statements are subject to the application of GAAP in the United States, which are periodically revised and/or expanded. Accordingly, from time to time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the FASB. It is possible that future accounting standards we are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A change in accounting standards or practices or a change in existing taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements and taxation practice have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. In particular, changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially impact our effective tax rate. There are several proposals to reform U.S. tax rules being considered by U.S. law makers, including proposals that may reduce or eliminate the deferral of U.S. income tax on our un-repatriated earnings, potentially requiring those earnings to be taxed at the U.S. federal income tax rate, reduce or eliminate our ability to claim foreign tax credits, and eliminate various tax deductions until foreign earnings are repatriated to the U.S. Our future reported financial results may be adversely affected by tax rule changes which restrict or eliminate our ability to claim foreign tax credits or deduct expenses attributable to foreign earnings, or otherwise affect the treatment of our un-repatriated earnings. 29 Table of Contents The FASB and International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”) have announced their commitment to achieving a single set of high-quality global accounting standards, and the SEC continues to encourage the convergence of U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) in order to narrow the differences between the two sets of standards. In 2010, the SEC announced a Work Plan, the results of which will aid the Commission in its evaluation of the impact that the use of IFRS by U.S. companies would have on the U.S. securities market. Included in this Work Plan is consideration of IFRS, as it exists today and after the completion of various convergence projects currently underway between U.S. and international accounting standards-setters. In July 2012, the SEC issued its final Staff Report on the Work Plan, summarizing the objectives as well as the efforts and observations as of that time. In addition to considering the information obtained through execution of the Work Plan, the SEC will continue to assess the progress on the FASB’s and IASB’s current convergence projects before deciding on whether to incorporate IFRS into the U.S. financial reporting system, and if so, when and how. If the SEC determines to incorporate IFRS into the U.S. financial reporting system, the first time that U.S. companies would report under such a system would be no earlier than 2015. The adoption of IFRS and/or the effects of accounting standards convergence could significantly alter the presentation of our financial position and results of operations in our financial statements. New regulations related to “conflict minerals” may cause us to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products. On August 22, 2012, the SEC adopted a new rule requiring disclosures of specified minerals, known as conflict minerals, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured by public companies. The new rule, which is effective for calendar 2013 and requires a disclosure report to be filed by May 31, 2014, will require companies to conduct diligence, and to disclose and report whether or not such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo or an adjoining country. The new rule could affect sourcing at competitive prices and availability in sufficient quantities of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products, including gold. The number of suppliers who provide conflict-free minerals may be limited. In addition, there may be material costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of certain minerals used in our products, as well as costs of possible changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. Since our supply chain is complex, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the relevant minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may harm our reputation. In addition, we may encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict-free, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage if we are unable to do so. Natural or other disasters could disrupt our business and result in loss of revenue or in higher expenses. Natural disasters, terrorist activities and other business disruptions could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our corporate headquarters are located in California, a seismically active region. A natural disaster in any of our major markets in North America or Europe could have a material adverse impact on our operations, operating results and financial condition. Further, any unanticipated business disruption caused by Internet security threats, damage to global communication networks or similar events could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 