Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in shares of our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider the following factors, in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report, in evaluating our business and current and proposed activities before you purchase any shares of our common stock. You should also see the "Cautionary Statement for Purposes of the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995" regarding risks and uncertainties relating to us and to forward-looking statements in this Annual Report. There can be no assurance that the exploratory drilling to be conducted on the exploration blocks in which we hold an interest will result in any discovery of reserves of hydrocarbons or that any hydrocarbons that are discovered will be in commercially recoverable quantities. In addition, the realization of any revenues from commercially recoverable hydrocarbons is dependent upon the ability to deliver, store and market any hydrocarbons that are discovered. The presence of hydrocarbon reserves on contiguous properties is no assurance or necessary indication that hydrocarbons will be found in commercially marketable quantities on the exploration blocks in which we hold an interest. Risks Relating to Our Oil and Gas Activities Because We Are In the Early Stage Of Developing Our Activities, There Are Considerable Risks That We Will Be Unsuccessful We are in the early stage of developing our operations. Our only activities in the oil and natural gas exploration and production industry have primarily involved entering into ten PSCs with the GOI. We have realized no revenues from our oil and natural gas exploration and development activities and do not claim any proved reserves of oil or natural gas. Our current plans are to conduct the exploration and development activities on the areas offshore and onshore India in accordance with the terms of the PSCs we are a party to. There can be no assurance that the exploratory drilling to be conducted on the exploration blocks in which we hold an interest will result in any discovery of hydrocarbons or that any hydrocarbons that are discovered will be in commercially recoverable quantities. In addition, the realization of any revenues from commercially recoverable hydrocarbons is dependent upon the ability to deliver, store and market any hydrocarbons that are discovered. As of May 30, 2008, there are no or limited facilities for the delivery and storage of hydrocarbons on the areas covered by our PSCs. The presence of hydrocarbon reserves on contiguous properties is no assurance or necessary indication that hydrocarbons will be found in commercially marketable quantities on the exploration blocks in which we hold an interest. Our exploration opportunities are highly speculative and should any of these opportunities not result in the discovery of commercial quantities of oil and gas reserves, our investment in the venture could be lost. Page 27 TOC Our business plans also include seeking to enter into additional joint ventures or other arrangements to acquire interests in additional government created and granted hydrocarbon exploration opportunities, primarily located onshore or in the offshore waters of India and possibly elsewhere. Opportunities to acquire interests in exploration opportunities will be dependent upon our ability to identify, negotiate and enter into joint venture or other similar arrangements with respect to specific exploration opportunities and upon our ability to raise sufficient capital to fund our participation in those joint ventures or other exploration activities. Our success will be dependent upon the success of the exploration activities of the ventures in which we acquire an interest and our ability to have adequate capital resources available at the times required. GSPC Is Seeking a Payment From Us In the Amount Of Approximately $57.3 Million as of December 31, 2007 On Account of GSPC’s Exploration Costs On the KG Offshore Block Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation Ltd. ("GSPC"), the operator of the KG Offshore Block in which we have a net 5% carried interest, has advised us that it is seeking from us our pro rata portion of the amount by which the sums expended by GSPC under Phase I of the work program set forth in the PSC for the KG Offshore Block in carrying out exploration activities on the block exceeds the amount that GSPC deems to be our pro rata portion of a financial commitment under Phase I included in the parties’ joint bid for the award by the Government of India of the KG Offshore Block. GSPC contends that this excess amount is not within the terms of the CIA. GSPC asserts that we are required to pay 10% of the exploration expenses over and above gross costs of $59.23 million (10% being $5.92 million) (including the net 5% interest of Roy Group (Mauritius) Inc.). Based on the most recent amount provided by GSPC in a letter dated February 4, 2008, GSPC asserts that the amount payable is $57.3 million as of December 31, 2007. GeoGlobal disputes this assertion of GSPC. We have advised GSPC that, under the terms of the CIA, the terms of which are also incorporated into the PSC and the Joint Operating Agreement dated August 7, 2003 between the parties, it has no right to seek the payment and that we believe the payment GSPC is seeking is in breach of the CIA. We further reminded GSPC that we have fulfilled over the past five years our obligations under the CIA to provide extensive technical assistance without any further remuneration other than the carried interest, all in accordance with the terms of the CIA. In furtherance of our position, we have obtained the opinion of prominent Indian legal counsel who has advised us that, among other things, under the terms of the agreements between the parties, and in particular the CIA, we are not liable to pay any amount to GSPC for either costs and expenses incurred or otherwise before reaching the stage of commercial production. We continue to be of the view that, under the terms of the CIA, we have a carried interest in the exploration activities conducted by the parties on the KG Offshore Block for 100% of our share (including the share of Roy Group (Mauritius) Inc.) of costs during the exploration phase prior to the start date of initial commercial production on the KG Offshore Block. To date, commercial production has not been achieved on the block. We intend to vigorously protect our contractual rights in accordance with the dispute resolution process under the CIA, the PSC and the JOA as may be appropriate. However, there can be no assurance that GSPC will not institute arbitration or other proceedings seeking to recover the sum or otherwise contend we are in breach of the PSC or that the effect of GSPC seeking payment of this sum may not hinder our capital raising and other activities. In September 2007, we commenced discussions with GSPC in an effort to reach an amicable resolution, however, no agreement has been reached as of May 30, 2008. Page 28 TOC Possible Inability of Contracting Parties to Fulfill the Minimum Work Programs for Certain of Our PSCs Our PSCs relating to our exploration blocks in India provide that by the end of the first phase of the exploration phases the contracting parties shall have drilled a certain number of wells or performed certain exploration activities. The first phase of the exploration period relating to the PSC for the KG Offshore Block expired without the required minimum of at least fourteen exploration wells being drilled during the first phase. The first phase of the exploration period of the PSC relating to the Mehsana Block also expired without the required minimum of seven wells having been drilled and the first phase of the exploration period of the PSC relating to the Sanand/Miroli Block expired without the required minimum of twelve wells having been drilled. GSPC is the operator on the KG Offshore Block and the Sanand/Miroli Block and Jubilant Oil & Gas ("Jubilant") is the operator on the Mehsana Block. The PSCs also have provisions for termination of the PSC on account of various reasons specified therein including material breach of the contract. This failure to timely complete the minimum work commitment may be deemed to constitute such a breach. Termination rights can be exercised after giving ninety days written notice. The termination of a PSC by the GOI would result in the loss of our interest in the PSC other than contract areas of the PSC determined to encompass "commercial discoveries". The PSC sets forth procedures whereby the operator can obtain the review of the Management Committee under the PSC as to whether a discovery on the exploration block should be declared a commercial discovery under the PSC. Those procedures have not been completed at present with respect to the discovery on the KG Offshore Block. Although GSPC submitted, subsequent to end of Phase I, an application to have an area declared as a commercial discovery, as of May 30, 2008, no areas on the KG Offshore Block have been determined formally to encompass "commercial discoveries" as that term is defined under the PSC. No areas of the Mehsana Block or the Sanand/Miroli Block have been determined to encompass commercial discoveries, however, the operators of each block have notified DGH of discoveries. GSPC, as operator of the Tarapur Block, has submitted an application for an extension beyond Phase III of the PSC for an additional twelve months to complete an additional work program of drilling five wells under the GOI new extension policy. The parties to the PSC have agreed to provide a 35% bank guarantee of US$3.1 million and a 30% cash payment of US$2.7 million for this additional work programme. GOI consent to this application has not yet been approved or received. GSPC has previously notified the GOI under the terms of the PSC of two discoveries of hydrocarbons in this block, the Tarapur 1 and Tarapur G. These requests remain pending at May 30, 2008. In the event a PSC is terminated by the GOI, or in the event the work program is not fulfilled by the end of the relevant exploration phase, the PSC provides that each party to the PSC is to pay to the GOI its participating interest share of an amount which is equal to the amount that would be required to complete the minimum work program for that phase. With respect to the KG Offshore Block, we are of the view that GSPC, under the terms of our CIA, would be liable for our participating interest share of the amount required to complete the minimum work program for the phase. GSPC, as operator of the Tarapur Block, has submitted an application for an extension beyond Phase III of the PSC for an additional twelve months to complete an additional work program of drilling five wells under the GOI new extension policy which has not yet been approved.. Through December 31, 2007, we have incurred costs of approximately $7.8 million under the terms of our agreement with GSPC for our 20% PI share of exploration costs. If the above request for an additional 12 months is not granted, the third and final phase of exploratory activities on the Tarapur Block will have expired on November 22, 2007. The work commitment to drill one well to a depth of 3,000 meters or to the Deccan trap has been completed and, under the terms of the PSC, all areas not encompassing a commercial discovery after November 22, 2007 would be relinquished back to the GOI and our investment in exploration costs on areas that will be required to be relinquished back to the GOI will have been lost. Page 29 TOC Financial Statement Impact of Our Failure to Exercise Our Options To Reacquire Our 30% Interest in the Egyptian Exploration Blocks. We entered into a Joint Bidding Agreement with GSPC, as operator (50%) and Alkor Petroo Limited of Hyderabad, India (20%) to bid on certain exploration blocks in the Arab Republic of Egypt. The agreement provides that we are to have a 30% PI of any concession agreements entered into. These blocks include offshore exploration Block 6 (also referred to as N. Hap’y) and onshore exploration Block 8 (also referred to as South Diyur) in the Arab Republic of Egypt. On March 22, 2008 GSPC entered into two concession agreements covering these blocks with the Arab Republic of Egypt. On January 8, 2008, effective December 31, 2007, we entered into two agreements with GSPC. An Assignment Agreement sets out the terms whereby we assigned to GSPC all of our rights to receive a 30% PI in the two exploration blocks awarded by the Arab Republic of Egypt in exchange for an option (the Option Agreement) exercisable on or before April 30, 2008 to reacquire all or a portion of those rights. GSPC provided us a 45 day extension of time for exercising the option to June 15, 2008. In the event we exercise the option, we will be required to pay to GSPC our pro rata share of all costs and expenses from the effective date of the option agreement (December 31, 2007). We will also have to provide to GSPC bank guarantees equal to the remaining 98%, based upon our share of the rights we elects to reacquire, of the total financial commitment for conducting the first exploration phase on the two exploration blocks. If we elect to reacquire and participate to the full 30% of the option, these additional bank guarantees would amount to approximately US$56.4 million. In addition to the non-refundable US$1.17 million of bank guarantees, our oil and gas assets included at December 31, 2007 approximately US$2.4 million relating to our interests in the two exploration blocks which will be carried forward as an investment in the option pending our determination whether we will exercise any portion of the option. In the event we fail to exercise any portion of the option, we will be required to recognize a charge to the Statement of Operations in the amount of approximately US$4.1 million. Because Our Activities Have Only Recently Commenced And We Have No Operating History And Reserves Of Oil And Gas, We Anticipate Future Losses; There Is No Assurance Of Our Profitability Our oil and natural gas operations have been only recently established and we have very limited operating history, no oil and gas reserves and limited assets upon which an evaluation of our business, our current business plans and our prospects can be based. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and problems frequently encountered by all companies in their early stages of development and, in particular, those engaged in exploratory oil and gas activities. Such risks include, without limitation: · We will experience failures to discover oil and gas in commercial quantities; · There are uncertainties as to the costs to be incurred in our exploratory drilling activities, cost overruns are possible and we may encounter mechanical difficulties and failures in completing wells; · There are uncertain costs inherent in drilling into unknown formations, such as over-pressured zones, high temperatures and tools lost in the hole; and · We may make changes in our drilling plans and locations as a result of prior exploratory drilling. During the exploration phase prior to the start date of initial commercial production, we have a carried interest in the exploration activities on the KG Offshore Block. Our interests in our other exploration blocks are participating interests which require us to pay our proportionate share of exploration, drilling and development expenses on these blocks as those expenses are incurred. Unexpected or additional costs can affect the commercial viability of producing oil and gas from a well and will affect the time when and amounts that we can expect to receive from any production from a well. Because our carried costs of exploration and drilling on the KG Offshore Block are to be repaid in full to the operator, GSPC, before we are entitled to any share of production, additional exploration and development expenses will reduce and delay any share of production and revenues we will receive. Page 30 TOC There can be no assurance that the ventures in which we are a participant will be successful in addressing these risks, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our prospects for the future. Our operations were recently established, and as such, we have no substantial operating history to serve as the basis to predict our ability to further the development of our business plan. Likewise, the outcome of our exploratory drilling activities, as well as our quarterly and annual operating results cannot be predicted. Consequently, we believe that period to period comparisons of our exploration, development, drilling and operating results will not necessarily be meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our stage of development or future prospects. In the future, operating or drilling results may fall below our expectations or the expectations of securities analysts and investors and that some of our drilling results will be unsuccessful and the wells abandoned. In such event, the trading price of our common stock may be materially and adversely affected. We Expect to Have Substantial Requirements For Additional Capital That May Be Unavailable To Us Which Could Limit Our Ability To Participate In Our Existing and Additional Ventures Or Pursue Other Opportunities. Our Available Capital is Limited In order to participate under the terms of our PSCs as well as in further joint venture arrangements leading to the possible grant of exploratory drilling opportunities, we will be required to contribute or have available to us material amounts of capital. Under the terms of our CIA relating to the KG Offshore Block, after the start date of initial commercial production on the KG Offshore Block, and under the terms of the nine other PSCs we are parties to, we are required to bear our proportionate share of costs during the exploration phases of those agreements. There can be no assurance that our currently available capital will be sufficient for these purposes or that any additional capital that is required will be available to us in the amounts and at the times required. Such capital also may be required to secure bonds in connection with the grant of exploration rights, to conduct or participate in exploration activities or be engaged in drilling and completion activities. We intend to seek the additional capital to meet our requirements from equity and debt offerings of our securities. Our ability to access additional capital will depend in part on the success of the ventures in which we are a participant in locating reserves of oil and gas and developing producing wells on the exploration blocks, the results of our management in locating, negotiating and entering into joint venture or other arrangements on terms considered acceptable, as well as the status of the capital markets at the time such capital is sought. There can be no assurance that capital will be available to us from any source or that, if available, it will be at prices or on terms acceptable to us. Should we be unable to access the capital markets or should sufficient capital not be available, our activities could be delayed or reduced and, accordingly, any future exploration opportunities, revenues and operating activities may be adversely affected and could also result in our breach of the terms of a PSC which could result in the loss of our rights under the contract. As of December 31, 2007, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $48.1 million. We currently expect that our available cash will be sufficient to fund us through the balance of 2008 and through the budget period ending March 31, 2009 at our present level of operations on the ten exploration blocks in which we are currently a participant in. Although exploration activity budgets are subject to ongoing review and revision, our present estimate of our commitments of capital pursuant to the terms of our PSCs relating to our ten exploration blocks, excluding the KG Onshore Block and the Tarapur Block, totals approximately $17.1 million during the period April 1, 2008 to March 31, 2009. We anticipate expenditures on the Tarapur Block, if the 12 month extension is granted to be $2.2 million for the same period. Further, we anticipate our expenditures on the KG Onshore Block to be $4.2 million based upon a 10% PI. Upon receipt of approval from the GOI for the increase to a 25% PI, these expenditures will increase to $10.5 million. Any further PSCs we may seek to enter into or any expanded scope of our operations or other transactions that we may enter into may require us to fund our participation or capital expenditures with amounts of capital not currently available to us. We may be unsuccessful in raising the capital necessary to meet these capital requirements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise the capital. Page 31 TOC India’s Regulatory Regime May Increase Our Risks And Expenses In Doing Business All phases of the oil and gas exploration, development and production activities in which we are participating are regulated in varying degrees by the Indian government, either directly or through one or more governmental entities. The areas of government regulation include matters relating to restrictions on production, price controls, export controls, income taxes, expropriation of property, environmental protection and rig safety. In addition, the award of a PSC is subject to GOI consent and matters relating to the implementation and conduct of operations under the PSC are subject, under certain circumstances, to GOI consent. As a consequence, all future drilling and production programs and operations we undertake or are undertaken by the ventures in which we participate in India must be approved by the Indian government. Shifts in political conditions in India could adversely affect our business in India and the ability to obtain requisite government approvals in a timely fashion or at all. We, and our joint venture participants, must maintain satisfactory working relationships with the Indian government. This regulatory environment and possible delays inherent in that environment may increase the risks associated with our exploration and production activities and increase our costs of doing business. Our Control By Directors And Executive Officers May Result In Those Persons Having Interests Divergent From Our Other Stockholders As of May 30, 2008, our Directors and executive officers and their respective affiliates, in the aggregate, beneficially hold 32,543,667 shares or approximately 45.1% of our outstanding Common Stock. As a result, these stockholders possess significant influence over us, giving them the ability, among other things, to elect a majority of our Board of Directors and approve significant corporate transactions. These persons will retain significant control over our present and future activities and our other stockholders and investors may be unable to meaningfully influence the course of our actions. These persons may have interests regarding the future activities and transactions in which we engage which may diverge from the interests of our other stockholders. Such share ownership and control may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us, or discourage a potential acquiror from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us which could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our Common Stock. Although management has no intention of engaging in such activities, there is also a risk that the existing management will be viewed as pursuing an agenda which is beneficial to themselves at the expense of other stockholders. Our Reliance On A Limited Number Of Key Management Personnel Imposes Risks On Us That We Will Have Insufficient Management Personnel Available If The Services Of Any Of Them Are Unavailable We are dependent upon the services of our President and Chief Executive Officer, Jean Paul Roy, and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Allan J. Kent. The loss of either of their services could have a material adverse effect upon us. We currently do not have employment agreements with either of such persons or key man life insurance. The services of Mr. Roy are provided pursuant to the terms of an agreement with a corporation wholly-owned by Mr. Roy. We have no direct contractual agreement with Mr. Roy and, therefore, he is not directly obligated to provide services to us or refrain from engaging in other activities. At present, Mr. Kent’s services are provided through an oral agreement with a corporation wholly-owned by Mr. Kent. There is no written agreement between us and Mr. Kent which obligates him to refrain from engaging in other activities. At present, our future is substantially dependent upon the geological and geophysical capabilities of Mr. Roy to locate oil and gas exploration opportunities for us and the ventures in which we are a participant. His inability to do the foregoing could materially adversely affect our future activities. We entered into a TSA with RGB dated August 29, 2003, a company owed 100% by Mr. Roy, to perform such geological and geophysical duties and exercise such powers related thereto as we may from time to time assign to it. The initial term of this contract was for three years with a provision to continue for successive periods of one year and currently the TSA is subject to termination on December 31, 2008 in the event either party gives written notice that it intends to terminate. Page 32 TOC Our Success Is Largely Dependent On The Success Of The Operators Of The Ventures In Which We Participate And Their Failure Or Inability To Properly Or Successfully Operate The Oil And Gas Exploration, Development And Production Activities On An Exploration Block, Could Materially Adversely Affect Us At present, our only oil and gas interests are our contractual rights under the terms of the ten PSCs with the GOI that we have entered into. We are not and will not be the operator of any of the exploration, drilling and production activities conducted on our exploration blocks, with the exception of the DS 03 Block and the DS 04 Block in which we hold a 100% interest and are the operators. Accordingly, the realization of success in these exploration blocks is substantially dependent upon the success of the operators in exploring for and developing reserves of oil and gas and their ability to market those reserves at prices that will yield a return to us. Under the terms of our CIA for the KG Offshore Block, we have a CI in the exploration activities conducted by the parties on the KG Offshore Block prior to the start date of initial commercial production. However, under the terms of that agreement, all of our proportionate share of capital costs for exploration and development activities must be repaid without interest over the projected production life or ten years, whichever is less. Our proportionate share of these costs and expenses expected to be incurred over the 6.5 year term of the PSC for which our interest is carried was originally estimated to be approximately $22.0 million. Additional drilling costs including the drilling to depths in excess of 5,000 meters, where higher downhole temperatures and pressures are encountered, versus shallower depths as originally anticipated, as well as the testing and completion costs of these wells, has resulted in additional costs exceeding originally estimated expenditures. We have been advised by GSPC that they have incurred costs of approximately $57.3 million on our behalf as of December 31, 2007 of which 50% is for the account of RGM. We have been further advised that GSPC is expected to incur additional costs of approximately $59.9 million on our behalf (including the 5% PI of RGM) under the terms of the CIA over the period April 1, 2008 to March 31, 2009. We are unable to estimate the amount of additional expenditures GSPC will make as operator attributable to us prior to the start date of initial commercial production under the CIA or when, if ever, any commercial production will commence. Of these expenditures, 50% are for the account of RGM under the terms of the PIA between us and RGM. We are not entitled to any share of production from the KG Offshore Block until such time as the expenditures attributed to us, including those expenditures made for the account of Roy Group (Mauritius) Inc., under the CIA, have been recovered by GSPC from future production revenue. Therefore, we are unable to estimate when we may commence to receive distributions from any production of hydrocarbon reserves found on the KG Offshore Block. As provided in the CIA, in addition to repaying our proportionate share of capital costs incurred for which we were carried, we will be required to bear our proportionate share of the expenditures attributable to us after the start date of initial commercial production on the KG Offshore Block. Certain Terms Of The Production Sharing Contracts May Create Additional Expenses And Risks That Could Adversely Affect Our Revenues And Profitability The PSCs contain certain terms that may affect the revenues of the joint venture participants to the agreements and create additional risks for us. These terms include, possibly among others, the following: · The venture participants are required to complete certain minimum work programs during the two or three phases of the terms of the PSCs. In the event the venture participants fail to fulfill any of these minimum work programs, the parties to the venture must pay to the GOI their proportionate share of the amount that would be required to complete the minimum work program. Accordingly, we could be called upon to pay our proportionate share of the estimated costs of any incomplete work programs. · Until such time as the GOI attains self sufficiency in the production of crude oil and condensate and is able to meet its national demand, the parties to the venture are required to sell in the Indian domestic market their entitlement under the PSCs to crude oil and condensate produced from the exploration blocks. In addition, the Indian domestic market has the first call on natural gas produced from the exploration blocks and the discovery and production of natural gas must be made in the context of the government’s policy of utilization of natural gas and take into account the objectives of the government to develop its resources in the most efficient manner and promote conservation measures. Accordingly, this provision could interfere with our ability to realize the maximum price for our share of production of hydrocarbons; Page 33 TOC · The parties to each agreement that are not Indian companies, which includes us, are required to negotiate technical assistance agreements with the GOI or its nominee whereby such foreign company can render technical assistance and make available commercially available technical information of a proprietary nature for use in India by the government or its nominee, subject, among other things, to confidentiality restrictions. Although not intended, this could increase each venture’s and our cost of operations; and · The parties to each venture are required to give preference, including the use of tender procedures, to the purchase and use of goods manufactured, produced or supplied in India provided that such goods are available on equal or better terms than imported goods, and to employ Indian subcontractors having the required skills insofar as their services are available on comparable standards and at competitive prices and terms. Although not intended, this could increase the ventures and our cost of operations. These provisions of the PSCs, possibly among others, may increase our costs of participating in the ventures and thereby affect our profitability. Failure to fully comply with the terms of the PSCs creates additional risks for us. Oil And Gas Prices Fluctuate Widely And Low Oil And Gas Prices Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Results There is no assurance that there will be any market for oil or gas produced from the exploration blocks in which we hold an interest and our ability to deliver the production from any wells may be constrained by the absence of or limitations on collector systems and pipelines. Future price fluctuations could have a major impact on the future revenues from any oil and gas produced on these exploration blocks and thereby our revenue, and materially affect the return from and the financial viability of any reserves that are claimed. Historically, oil and gas prices and markets have been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. A significant decrease in oil and gas prices could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and profitability and would adversely affect our financial condition and the results of our operations. In addition, because world oil prices are quoted in and trade on the basis of U.S. dollars, fluctuations in currency exchange rates that affect world oil prices could also affect our revenues. Prices for oil and gas fluctuate in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, including: · political conditions and civil unrest in oil producing regions, including the Middle East and elsewhere; · the domestic and foreign supply of oil and gas; · quotas imposed by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries upon its members; · the level of consumer demand; · weather conditions; · domestic and foreign government regulations; · the price and availability of alternative fuels; · overall economic conditions; and · international political conditions. In addition, various factors may adversely affect the ability to market oil and gas production from our exploration blocks, including: · the capacity and availability of oil and gas gathering systems and pipelines; · the ability to produce oil and gas in commercial quantities and to enhance and maintain production from existing wells and wells proposed to be drilled; · the proximity of future hydrocarbon discoveries to oil and gas transmission facilities and processing equipment (as well as the capacity of such facilities); · the effect of governmental regulation of production and transportation (including regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, allowable production, importing and exporting of oil and condensate and matters associated with the protection of the environment); · the imposition of trade sanctions or embargoes by other countries; · the availability and frequency of delivery vessels; · changes in supply due to drilling by others; Page 34 TOC · the availability of drilling rigs and qualified personnel; and · changes in demand. Our Ability To Locate And Participate In Additional Exploration Opportunities And To Manage Growth May Be Limited By Reason Of Our Limited History Of Operations And The Limited Size Of Our Staff While our President and Executive Vice President have had extensive experience in the oil and gas exploration business, we have been engaged in limited activities in the oil and gas business over approximately the past four years and have a limited history of activities upon which you may base your evaluation of our performance. As a result of our brief operating history and limited activities in oil and gas exploration activities, our success to date in entering into ventures to acquire interests in exploration blocks may not be indicative that we will be successful in entering into any further ventures. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in growing our oil and gas exploration and development activities. Any future significant growth in our oil and gas exploration and development activities will place demands on our executive officers, and any increased scope of our operations will present challenges to us due to our current limited management resources. Our future performance will depend upon our management and its ability to locate and negotiate opportunities to participate in joint venture and other arrangements whereby we can participate in exploration opportunities. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in these efforts. Our inability to locate additional opportunities, to hire additional management and other personnel or to enhance our management systems could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our Future Performance Depends Upon Our Ability And The Ability Of The Ventures In Which We Participate To Find Or Acquire Oil And Gas Reserves That Are Economically Recoverable Our success in developing our oil and gas exploration and development activities will be dependent upon establishing, through our participation with others in joint ventures and other similar activities, reserves of oil and gas and maintaining and possibly expanding the levels of those reserves. We and the joint ventures in which we may participate may not be able to locate and thereafter replace reserves from exploration and development activities at acceptable costs. Lower prices of oil and gas may further limit the kinds of reserves that can be developed at an acceptable cost. The business of exploring for, developing or acquiring reserves is capital intensive. We may not be able to make the necessary capital investment to enter into joint ventures or similar arrangements to maintain or expand our oil and gas reserves if capital is unavailable to us and the ventures in which we participate. In addition, exploration and development activities involve numerous risks that may result in dry holes, the failure to produce oil and gas in commercial quantities, the inability to fully produce discovered reserves and the inability to enhance production from existing wells. We expect that we will continually seek to identify and evaluate joint venture and other exploration opportunities for our participation as a joint venture participant or through some other arrangement. Our ability to enter into additional exploration activities will be dependent to a large extent on our ability to negotiate arrangements with others and with various governments and governmental entities whereby we can be granted a participation in such ventures. There can be no assurance that we will be able to locate and negotiate such arrangements, have sufficient capital to meet the costs involved in entering into such arrangements or that, once entered into, that such exploration activities will be successful. Successful acquisition of exploration opportunities can be expected to require, among other things, accurate assessments of potential recoverable reserves, future oil and gas prices, projected operating costs, potential environmental and other liabilities and other factors. Such assessments are necessarily inexact, and as estimates, their accuracy is inherently uncertain. We cannot assure you that we will successfully consummate any further exploration opportunities or joint venture or other arrangements leading to such opportunities. Page 35 TOC Estimating Reserves And Future Net Revenues Involves Uncertainties And Oil And Gas Price Declines May Lead To Impairment Of Oil And Gas Assets Currently, we do not claim any proved reserves of oil or natural gas. Any reserve information that we may provide in the future will represent estimates based on reports prepared by independent petroleum engineers, as well as internally generated reports. Petroleum engineering is not an exact science. Information relating to proved oil and gas reserves is based upon engineering estimates derived after analysis of information we furnish or furnished by the operator of the property. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and gas reserves and of future net cash flows necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, such as historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas, the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies and assumptions concerning future oil and gas prices, future operating costs, severance and excise taxes, capital expenditures and workover and remedial costs, all of which may in fact vary considerably from actual results. Oil and gas prices, which fluctuate over time, may also affect proved reserve estimates. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of oil and gas attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of such reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of the future net cash flows expected therefrom prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers at different times may vary substantially. Actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to reserves we may claim will likely vary from estimates, and such variances may be material. Either inaccuracies in estimates of proved undeveloped reserves or the inability to fund development could result in substantially reduced reserves. In addition, the timing of receipt of estimated future net revenues from proved undeveloped reserves will be dependent upon the timing and implementation of drilling and development activities estimated by us for purposes of the reserve report. Quantities of proved reserves are estimated based on economic conditions in existence in the period of assessment. Lower oil and gas prices may have the impact of shortening the economic lives on certain fields because it becomes uneconomic to produce all recoverable reserves on such fields, thus reducing proved property reserve estimates. If such revisions in the estimated quantities of proved reserves occur, it will have the effect of increasing the rates of depreciation, depletion and amortization on the affected properties, which would decrease earnings or result in losses through higher depreciation, depletion and amortization expense. The revisions may also be sufficient to trigger impairment losses on certain properties that would result in a further non-cash charge to earnings. Risks Relating To The Market For Our Common Stock Volatility Of Our Stock Price The public market for our common stock has been characterized by significant price and volume fluctuations. There can be no assurance that the market price of our common stock will not decline below its current or historic price ranges. The market price may bear no relationship to the prospects, stage of development, existence of oil and gas reserves, revenues, earnings, assets or potential of our company and may not be indicative of our future business performance. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations. Fluctuations in the price of oil and gas and related international political events can be expected to affect the price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price for many companies which fluctuations have been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These market fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our company's common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against such companies. Such litigation, if instituted, and irrespective of the outcome of such litigation, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources and have a material adverse effect on our company's business, results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have no unresolved staff comments and are not required to respond to this Item. Page 36 TOC Item 