Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in shares of our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider the following factors in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report in evaluating our business and current and proposed activities before you purchase any shares of our common stock. You should also see “Item 1A – Risk Factors - Cautionary Statement for Purposes of the “Safe Harbor” Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995” regarding risks and uncertainties relating to us and to forward-looking statements in this Annual Report. There can be no assurance that the exploratory drilling to be conducted on the exploration blocks and licenses in which we hold an interest will result in any discovery of reserves of hydrocarbons or that any hydrocarbons that are discovered will be in commercially recoverable quantities. In addition, the realization of any revenues from commercially recoverable hydrocarbons is dependent upon the ability to deliver, store and market any hydrocarbons that are discovered. Risks Relating to Our Oil and Gas Activities We Have A History Of Losses And Our Liquidity Position Imposes Risk To Our Operations To date, we have not achieved our planned principal operations and we are considered to be in the development stage of our operations. We have incurred negative cash flows from our operations, and at this time all exploration activities and overhead expenses are primarily financed by way of the issue and sale of equity securities with a small portion being financed from oil sales and interest income on our cash balances. The recoverability of the costs we have incurred to date is uncertain and is dependent upon achieving commercial production or sale. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties which are frequently encountered by companies in their early stage of operations, particularly companies in the oil and gas exploration industry. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon obtaining the necessary financing to complete further exploration and development activities and generate profitable operations from oil and natural gas interests in the future. Our financial statements as at and for the year ended December 31, 2010 have been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the settlement of liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business. We incurred a net loss of $18.789 million, and used $4.067 million of cash flow in our operating activities and $12.463 million in our investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2010. As at December 31, 2010 we had an accumulated deficit of $47.559 million. These matters raise doubt about our ability to con tinue as a going concern. We expect to incur substantial expenditures to further our exploration and development programs. The existing cash balance and any cash flow from operating activities may not be sufficient to satisfy current obligations and meet our exploration and development commitments. Development activities within our blocks and licenses that are unable to achieve production in the short term may need to be deferred or curtailed. We are considering various alternatives to remedy any future shortfall in capital. We may deem it necessary to raise capital through equity markets, debt markets or other financing arrangements, including participation arrangements that may be available. Because of the early stage of our operations and our absence of any material oil and natural gas reserves and reven ues, there can be no assurance this capital will be available and if it is not, we may be forced to substantially curtail or cease exploration expenditures which could lead to our inability to meet all of our commitments. Should the going concern assumption not be appropriate and we are not able to realize our assets and settle our liabilities, commitments and contingencies (as more fully described in our consolidated financial statements) in the normal course of operations, adjustments would be required to our consolidated financial statements to the amounts and classifications of assets and liabilities, and these adjustments could be significant. Our consolidated financial statements do not reflect the adjustments or reclassifications of assets and liabilities that would be necessary if we are unable to continue as a going concern. GSPC Is Seeking a Substantial Payment From Us On Account Of GSPC’s Exploration Costs On the KG Offshore Block GSPC has advised us that it is seeking from us payment of our pro rata portion of the amount by which the sums expended by GSPC under all phases for the minimum work program as set forth in the PSC for the KG Offshore Block in carrying out exploration activities on the block exceeds the amount that GSPC deems to be our pro rata portion of a financial commitment under all phases included in the parties’ joint bid for the award of the KG Offshore Block by the Government of India. GSPC contends that this excess amount is not within the terms of the Carried Interest Agreement and that we are required to pay 10% of the exploration expenses over and above gross costs of $109.7 million (10% being $10.97 million) (including the net 5% interest of Roy Group (Mauritius) Inc.) plus interest. For a full description of this matter, see “Item 1 - Business – Our Production Sharing Contracts in India – Our Krishna Godavari Basin Agreements - KG Offshore Block PSC – Carried Interest Agreement Dispute”. We estimate that the amount of GSPC’s claim as of December 31, 2010 to be approximately $189 million plus interest of which 50% is for the account of Roy Group (Mauritius) Inc. Page 18 TOC We dispute these positions of GSPC and the conclusions reached by GSPC and we intend to vigorously protect our contractual rights in accordance with the dispute resolution process under the Carried Interest Agreement, the PSC and the Joint Operating Agreement as may be appropriate. However, there can be no assurance that we will not by operation of law or through the dispute resolution process be required to pay GSPC the full amount it alleges to be owed, nor that adequate capital will be available to us to pay any such amounts, with consequent impact on our ability to continue as a going concern. Our Activities Have Only Recently Commenced And We Have a Very Limited Operating History. Our Reserves Of Oil And Gas Are Not Material. We Anticipate Future Losses and There Is No Assurance Of Our Success. We are in the early stage of developing our operations. We have a very limited operating history and we have realized very limited revenues from our activities. We do not have material reserves of oil and gas as at December 31, 2010. Our activities in the oil and natural gas exploration and production industry have primarily involved entering into ten PSCs with the Government of India. We also have exploration activities in Israel and Colombia however those activities are in the very early stages of development. Our exploration opportunities are highly speculative and should any of these opportunities not result in the discovery of commercial quantities of oil and gas reserves, our investment in the venture could be lost. Our current plans are to conduct the exploration and development activities on the areas offshore and onshore in accordance with the terms of the production sharing and other contracts we are a party to. There can be no assurance that the exploratory drilling to be conducted on the exploration blocks in which we hold an interest will result in any discovery of hydrocarbons or that any hydrocarbons that are discovered will be in commercially recoverable quantities. Further, the realization of any revenues from commercially recoverable hydrocarbons is substantially dependent upon the ability to deliver, store and market any hydrocarbons discovered. As of March 30, 2011 there are no or limited facilities for the delivery and storage of hydrocarbons in the areas covered by our PSCs and licenses. As a company engaged in exploratory oil and gas activities we are exposed to a number of special risks including, among others; · We may experience failures to discover oil and gas in commercial quantities; · There are uncertainties as to the costs to be incurred in our exploratory drilling activities, cost overruns are possible and we may encounter mechanical difficulties and failures in completing wells; · There are uncertain costs inherent in drilling into unknown formations, such as over-pressured zones, high temperatures and tools lost in the hole; and · We may make changes in our drilling plans and locations as a result of prior exploratory drilling. There can be no assurance that the ventures in which we are a participant or hold an interest will be successful in addressing these risks, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our prospects for the future. We Expect to Have Substantial Requirements Under the Terms of Our Production Sharing And Other Contracts For Additional Capital That May Be Unavailable To Us Which Could Limit Our Ability To Participate In Our Existing Ventures. Our Available Capital is Limited In order to participate under the terms of our production sharing or other contracts in future exploration, appraisal or development programs, we will be required to contribute or have available to us material amounts of capital. Under the terms of our Carried Interest Agreement relating to the KG Offshore Block, after the start date of initial commercial production on the KG Offshore Block, and under the terms of the nine other PSCs we are parties to in India, we are required to bear our proportionate share of costs during the exploration and development phases of those agreements. Under the terms of the three licenses we are a party to in Israel we are required to bear our proportionate share of costs during the exploration and development phases of those agreements. There can be no assurance that our currently available capital will be sufficient for these purposes or that any additional capital that is required will be available to us in the amounts and at the times required. Such capital also may be required to secure bank guarantees in connection with the grant of exploration rights, to conduct or participate in exploration activities or be engaged in drilling, completion and development activities. We intend to seek additional capital to meet our requirements from equity markets, debt markets or other financing arrangements, including participation arrangements that may be available for continued exploration and development expenditures. Our ability to access additional capital will depend in part on the success of the ventures in which we are a participant in locating reserves of oil and gas and developing producing wells on the exploration blocks and licenses, the results of our management in locating, negotiating and entering into joint venture or other arrangemen ts on terms considered acceptable, as well as the status of the capital markets at the time such capital is sought. Should we be unable to access the capital markets or should sufficient capital not be available, our activities could be delayed or reduced and, accordingly, any future exploration opportunities, revenues and operating activities may be adversely affected and could also result in our breach of the terms of a production sharing or other contract which could result in the loss of our rights or a portion thereof under the contract. Page 19 TOC As of December 31, 2010 we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $7.751 million. We believe that our available cash resources together with amounts we intend to seek from equity markets, debt markets or other financing arrangements will be sufficient to meet all our expenses and cash requirements during the year ending December 31, 2011 for our present level of operations on the exploration blocks and licenses in which we are currently a participant in. Although exploration activity budgets are subject to ongoing review and revision, our present estimate of commitments of capital pursuant to the terms of our production sharing contracts relating to our ten exploration blocks in India and our three licenses in Israel totals approximately $13.152 million during the year ending December 31, 2011. Upon receipt of approval from the Government of India for the increase to a 20% participating interest on the KG Onshore Block, these expenditures will increase by $1.804 million. Any further production sharing or other contracts we may seek to enter into or any expanded scope of operations or other transactions that we may enter into may require us to fund our participation or capital expenditures with amounts of capital not currently available to us. We may be unsuccessful in raising the capital necessary to meet these capital requirements. Possible Inability Of Contracting Parties To Fulfill The Minimum Work Programs For Certain Of Our PSCs Our PSCs relating to our exploration blocks in India provide that by the end of each exploration phase the contracting parties shall have drilled a certain number of wells or performed certain exploration activities. The PSCs have provisions for termination of the PSCs on account of various reasons specified therein including material breach of the contract. This failure to timely complete the minimum work program may be deemed to constitute such a breach. Termination rights can be exercised after giving ninety days written notice. The termination of a PSC by the Government of India would result in the loss of our interest in the PSC other than contract areas of the PSC determined to encompass Commercial Discoveries. In the event the minimum work program is not fulfilled by the end of the relevant exploration phase, the PSC provides that each party to the PSC is to pay to the Government of India its participating interest share of an amount which is equal to the amount that would be required to complete the minimum work program for that phase. Risks Associated With Our Holding A Carried Interest Under the terms of our KG Offshore Carried Interest Agreement, we are carried by GSPC for all our share of any costs and expenses during the exploration phase on the KG Offshore Block prior to the start date of initial commercial production. Under the terms of our Carried Interest Agreement, after deducting all royalties payable, GSPC is entitled to recover all such costs and expenses out of production from wells drilled by GSPC on the block before we are entitled to receive any share of the production. Accordingly, we will not be entitled to receive any production of hydrocarbons or revenues from wells drilled on the block until such time as GSPC has recovered the costs and expenses GSPC paid during the exploration phase on our behalf. As operator of the KG Offshore Block, GSPC is required to conduct exploration and drilling operations on the block in accordance with generally accepted oil and gas industry standards, subject to the terms of a Joint Operating Agreement, and is entitled to make all decisions and take all actions necessary in fulfilling the minimum work program commitments and future development commitments made relating to the KG Offshore Block. Through December 31, 2010, GSPC had expended approximately $189 million on our behalf under the terms of the Carried Interest Agreement of which 50% is for the account of Roy Group (Mauritius) Inc. and it is expected that those expenses will increase materially thereafter. There can be no assurance as to when, if ever, GSPC will recover our share of exploration costs and expenses. 60;Until such time, we will realize no revenues from our interest in the KG Offshore Block. Accordingly, our ability to receive revenues from hydrocarbon production from the KG Offshore Block, notwithstanding our carried interest, is dependent upon future production and price realized being sufficient to enable GSPC to recover the costs and expenses it incurs on our behalf. India’s Regulatory Regime May Increase Our Risks And Expenses In Doing Business All phases of the oil and gas exploration, development and production activities in which we are participating are regulated in varying degrees by the Indian government, either directly or through one or more governmental entities. The areas of government regulation include matters relating to restrictions on production, price controls, export controls, income taxes, expropriation of property, environmental protection and rig safety. In addition, the award of a PSC is subject to Government of India consent and matters relating to the implementation and conduct of operations under the PSC are subject, under certain circumstances, to Government of India consent. As a consequence, all future drilling and production programs and operations we undertake or undertaken by the ventures in which we participate i n India must be approved by the Indian government. Shifts in political conditions in India could adversely affect our business in India and the ability to obtain requisite government approvals in a timely fashion or at all. We and our joint venture participants must maintain satisfactory working relationships with the Indian government. This regulatory environment and possible delays inherent in that environment may increase the risks associated with our exploration and production activities and increase our costs of doing business. Page 20 TOC We Are Dependent On The Operators Of Our Ventures And Their Failure Or Inability To Operate An Exploration Block We have contractual rights under terms of ten PSCs with the Government of India. We are not the operator of eight of these ten exploration blocks. On the DS 03 Block and the DS 04 Block we hold a 100% interest and are the operator. The realization of success in the non-operated exploration blocks is substantially dependent upon the success of the operators in exploring for and developing reserves of oil and gas and their ability to market those reserves at prices that will yield a return to us. The minimum work programs required to be conducted by the contracting parties under certain of the PSCs to which we are a party have not been completed by the operators within the time frames required by the PSCs. This circumstance could lead to the assessment of damages against the contracting parties and the loss of our investments under the PSCs. We are dependent upon the operators to timely complete these minimum work programs. In addition, we are presently involved in a dispute with the operator of the KG Offshore Block. For a full description of this matter, see “Item 1 - Business – Our Production Sharing Contracts in India – Our Krishna Godavari Basin Agreements - KG Offshore Block PSC – Carried Interest Dispute”. Certain Terms Of The PSCs May Create Additional Expenses And Risks That Could Adversely Affect Our Revenues And Profitability The PSCs contain certain terms that may affect the revenues of the joint venture participants to the agreements and create additional risks for us. These terms include, among others, the following: · The venture participants are required to complete certain minimum work programs during the two or three phases of the terms of the PSCs. In the event the venture participants fail to fulfill any of these minimum work programs, the parties to the venture must pay to the Government of India their proportionate share of the amount that would be required to complete the minimum work program. Accordingly, we could be called upon to pay our proportionate share of the estimated costs of any incomplete work programs; · Until such time as the Government of India attains self sufficiency in the production of crude oil and condensate and is able to meet its national demand, the parties to the venture are required to sell in the Indian domestic market their entitlement under the PSCs to crude oil and condensate produced from the exploration blocks. In addition, the Indian domestic market has the first call on natural gas produced from the exploration blocks and the discovery and production of natural gas must be made in the context of the government’s policy of utilization of natural gas and take into account the objectives of the government to develop its resources in the most efficient manner and promote conservation measures. Accordingly, this provision could interfere with our ability to realize the maximum price for our share of producti on of hydrocarbons; · The parties to each agreement that are not Indian companies, which includes us, are required to negotiate technical assistance agreements with the Government of India or its nominee whereby such foreign company can render technical assistance and make available commercially available technical information of a proprietary nature for use in India by the government or its nominee, subject, among other things, to confidentiality restrictions. Although not intended, this could increase each venture’s and our cost of operations; and · The parties to each venture are required to give preference, including the use of tender procedures, to the purchase and use of goods manufactured, produced or supplied in India provided that such goods are available on equal or better terms than imported goods, and to employ Indian subcontractors having the required skills insofar as their services are available on comparable standards and at competitive prices and terms. Although not intended, this could increase the ventures and our cost of operations. These provisions of the PSCs, among others, may increase our costs of participating in the ventures and thereby affect our profitability. Failure to fully comply with the terms of the PSCs creates additional risks for us. Our International Operations May Be Adversely Affected By War, Terrorist Acts, Or Civil Disturbances That May Occur In Regions That Encompass Our Operations We conduct exploration and development activities in Israel. These areas have historically been less politically stable than other areas in which we conduct business. In recent weeks civil unrest has resulted in changes to the Tunisian and Egyptian governments. There have been numerous demonstrations and some of the demonstrations have been marked by violence. Civil unrest could continue to spread throughout the region. Such unrest, if it continues to grow in intensity, could lead to civil war; regime change resulting in governments that are hostile to the US and/or Israel, or other regional conflict. Page 21 TOC At this time we are uncertain of the outcome of these events. However, prolonged and/or widespread regional conflict in the Middle East could have the following results, among others: · volatility in global crude oil prices which could negatively impact the global economy, resulting in slower economic growth rates, which could reduce demand for our products; · negative impact on the world crude oil supply if transportation avenues are disrupted, leading to further commodity price volatility; · capital market reassessment of risk and subsequent redeployment of capital to more stable areas making it more difficult for partners to obtain financing for potential development projects; · security concerns in Israel, making it more difficult for our personnel or supplies to enter or exit the country; · reduced market demand in Israel for natural gas due to efforts to conserve domestic resources; · security concerns leading to evacuation of our personnel; · damage to or destruction of our wells, production facilities, receiving terminals or other operating assets; · inability of our service and equipment providers to deliver items necessary for us to conduct our operations in Israel, resulting in delayed start-up of our Samuel or Sara and Myra projects; and · lack of availability of drilling rig, oilfield equipment or services if third party providers decide to exit the region. Loss of property and/or interruption of our business plans resulting from hostile acts could have a significant negative impact on our earnings and cash flow. In addition, we may not have enough insurance to cover any loss of property or other claims resulting from these risks. Our Control By Certain Directors And Executive Officers May Result In Those Persons Having Interests Divergent From Our Other Stockholders As of March 30, 2011, our Directors and executive officers and their respective affiliates in the aggregate, beneficially hold 32,696,000 shares or approximately 39.5% of our outstanding Common Stock. As a result, these persons possess significant influence over us, which may give them the ability, among other things, to elect a majority of our Board of Directors and approve significant corporate transactions. These persons may retain significant control over our present and future activities and our other stockholders and investors may be unable to meaningfully influence the course of our actions. These persons may have interests regarding future activities and transactions in which we engage which may diverge from the interests of our other stockholders. Such share ownership and control may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us, or discourage a potential acquiror from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us which could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Although management has no intention of engaging in such activities, there is also a risk that the existing management will be viewed as pursuing an agenda which is beneficial to themselves at the expense of other stockholders. Oil And Gas Prices Fluctuate Widely And Low Oil And Gas Prices Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Results There is no assurance that there will be any market for oil or gas produced from the exploration blocks in which we hold an interest and the ability to deliver production from any wells may be constrained by the absence of or limitations on collector systems and pipelines. Future price fluctuations could have a major impact on future revenue from any oil and gas produced on these exploration blocks and could materially affect the return from and the financial viability of any reserves claimed. Historically, oil and gas prices have been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. A significant decrease in oil and gas prices could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and profitability and would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Prices for oil and gas fluctuate in response to relatively minor changes in the supply and demand for oil and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond our control, including: · political conditions and civil unrest in oil producing regions, including the Middle East and elsewhere; · the domestic and foreign supply of oil and gas; · quotas imposed by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries upon its members; · the level of consumer demand; · weather conditions; · domestic and foreign government regulations; · the price and availability of alternative fuels; · overall economic conditions; and · international political conditions. Page 22 TOC In addition, various factors may adversely affect the ability to market oil and gas production from our exploration blocks, including: · the capacity and availability of oil and gas gathering systems and pipelines; · the ability to produce oil and gas in commercial quantities and to enhance and maintain production from existing wells and wells proposed to be drilled; · the proximity of future hydrocarbon discoveries to oil and gas transmission facilities and processing equipment (as well as the capacity of such facilities); · the effect of governmental regulation of production and transportation (including regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, allowable production, importing and exporting of oil and condensate and matters associated with the protection of the environment); · the imposition of trade sanctions or embargoes by other countries; · the availability and frequency of delivery vessels; · changes in supply due to drilling by others; · the availability of drilling rigs and qualified personnel; and · changes in demand. Our Future Performance Depends Upon Our Ability And The Ability Of The Ventures In Which We Participate To Find Or Acquire Oil And Gas Reserves That Are Economically Producible Our success in developing our oil and gas exploration and development activities will be dependent upon establishing, through our participation with others in joint ventures and other similar activities, reserves of oil and gas and maintaining and possibly expanding the levels of those reserves. We and the joint ventures in which we may participate may not be able to locate and thereafter replace reserves from exploration and development activities at acceptable costs. Lower prices of oil and gas may further limit the kinds of reserves that can be developed at an acceptable cost. The business of exploring for, developing or acquiring reserves is capital intensive. We may not be able to make the necessary capital investment to enter into joint ventures or similar arrangements to maintain or ex pand our oil and gas reserves if capital is unavailable to us and the ventures in which we participate. In addition, exploration and development activities involve numerous risks that may result in dry holes, the failure to produce oil and gas in commercial quantities, the inability to fully produce discovered reserves and the inability to enhance production from existing wells. We expect that we will continually seek to identify and evaluate joint venture and other exploration opportunities for our participation as a joint venture participant or through some other arrangement. Our ability to enter into additional exploration activities will be dependent to a large extent on our ability to negotiate arrangements with others and with various governments and governmental entities whereby we can be granted a participation in such ventures. There can be no assurance that we will be able to locate and negotiate such arrangements, have sufficient capital to meet the costs involved in entering into such arrangements or that, once entered into, that such exploration activities will be successful. Successful acquisition of exploration opportunities can be expected to require, among othe r things, accurate assessments of potential recoverable reserves, future oil and gas prices, projected operating costs, potential environmental and other liabilities and other factors. Such assessments are necessarily inexact, and as estimates, their accuracy is inherently uncertain. We cannot assure you that we will successfully consummate any further exploration opportunities or joint venture or other arrangements leading to such opportunities. Estimating Reserves And Future Net Revenues Involves Uncertainties And Oil And Gas Price Declines May Lead To Impairment Of Oil And Gas Assets We do not claim any material proved or probable reserves of oil or natural gas as at December 31, 2010. Any reserve information that we may provide in the future will represent estimates based on reports prepared by independent petroleum engineers, as well as internally generated reports. Petroleum engineering is not an exact science. Information relating to proved oil and gas reserves is based upon engineering estimates derived after analysis of information we furnish or furnished by the operator of the property. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and gas reserves and of future net cash flows necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, such as historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas, the assumed effects of regul ations by governmental agencies and assumptions concerning future oil and gas prices, future operating costs, severance and excise taxes, capital expenditures and work-over and remedial costs, all of which may in fact vary considerably from actual results. Oil and gas prices, which fluctuate over time, may also affect proved reserve estimates. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of oil and gas attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of such reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of the future net cash flows expected therefrom prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers at different times may vary substantially. Actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to reserves we may claim will likely vary from estimates, and such variances may be material. Inaccuracies in estimates of proved undeveloped reserves or the inability to fund development could result in substantial ly reduced reserves. In addition, the timing of receipt of estimated future net revenues from proved undeveloped reserves will be dependent upon the timing and implementation of drilling and development activities estimated by us for purposes of the reserve report. Page 23 TOC Quantities of proved reserves are estimated based on economic conditions in existence in the period of assessment. Lower oil and gas prices may shorten economic lives of certain fields because it becomes uneconomic to produce all recoverable reserves on such fields, thus reducing proved property reserve estimates. If such revisions in the estimated quantities of proved reserves occur, it will have the effect of increasing the rates of depreciation, depletion and amortization on the affected properties, which would decrease earnings or result in losses through higher depreciation, depletion and amortization expense. The revisions may also be sufficient to trigger impairment losses on certain properties that would result in a further non-cash charge to earnings. Risks Relating To The Market For Our Common Stock - Volatility Of Our Stock Price The public market for our common stock has been characterized by significant price and volume fluctuations. There can be no assurance that the market price of our common stock will not decline below its current or historic price ranges. The market price may bear no relationship to the prospects, stage of development, existence of oil and gas reserves, revenues, earnings, assets or potential of our company and may not be indicative of our future business performance. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations. Fluctuations in the price of oil and gas and related international political events can be expected to affect the price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that hav e affected the market price for many companies which fluctuations have been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These market fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against such companies. Such litigation, if instituted, and irrespective of the outcome of such litigation, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Cautionary Statement For Purposes Of The “Safe Harbor” Provisions Of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act Of 1995 With the exception of historical matters, the matters discussed in this Report are “forward-looking statements” as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements made herein include, but are not limited to: · statements in this Report regarding our plans and objectives relating to our future operations, · plans and objectives regarding the exploration, development and production activities conducted on the exploration blocks in India, Israel and Colombia where we have interests, · plans regarding drilling activities intended to be conducted through the ventures in which we are a participant, the success of those drilling activities and our ability and the ability of the ventures to complete any wells on the exploration blocks, to develop reserves of hydrocarbons in commercially marketable quantities, to establish facilities for the collection, distribution and marketing of hydrocarbons, to produce oil and natural gas in commercial quantities and to realize revenues from the sales of those hydrocarbons, · our ability to maintain compliance with the terms and conditions of licenses and our production sharing and other contracts, including the related work commitments, to obtain consents, waivers and extensions under the terms of these licenses and production sharing and other contracts as and when required, and our ability to fund those work commitments, · our plans and objectives to join with others or to directly seek to enter into or acquire interests in additional licenses and production sharing or other contracts in India, Israel, Colombia and elsewhere, · our assumptions, plans and expectations regarding our future capital requirements, · our plans and intentions to raise additional capital we require and our likelihood of success in that regard, · the costs and expenses to be incurred in conducting exploration, well drilling, development and production activities, our estimates as to the anticipated annual costs of those activities and the adequacy of our capital to meet our requirements for our present and anticipated levels of activities are all forward-looking statements. These statements appear, among other places, in Part I under the caption “Item 2 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Part II under the caption “Item 1A - Risk Factors”. If our plans fail to materialize, your investment will be in jeopardy. · We cannot assure you that our assumptions or our business plans and objectives will prove to be accurate or be able to be attained. · We cannot assure you that the exploratory drilling to be conducted on the exploration blocks in which we hold an interest will result in a discovery of reserves of hydrocarbons or that any hydrocarbons discovered will be in commercially recoverable quantities. In addition, the realization of any revenues from commercially recoverable hydrocarbons is dependent upon the ability to deliver, store and market any hydrocarbons discovered. · Our ability to realize material revenues cannot be assured. Our ability to successfully drill, test and complete significant numbers of producing wells cannot be assured. Page 24 TOC · We cannot assure you that we will have available the capital required to meet our plans and objectives at the times and in the amounts required or we will have available to us the amounts we are required to fund under the terms of the licenses or production sharing and other contracts we are a party to. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in raising the additional capital we currently require. · We cannot assure you that we will be successful in joining any further ventures seeking to be granted licenses or production sharing or other contracts in India, Israel, Colombia or elsewhere or that we will be successful in acquiring interests in existing ventures. · We cannot assure you that we will obtain all required consents, waivers and extensions from a governmental or regulatory body in India, Israel or Colombia as and when required to maintain compliance with the licenses or production sharing or other contracts we have entered into, that we may not be adversely affected by any delays we may experience in receiving those consents, waivers and extensions, and that we may not incur liabilities under the production sharing or other contracts for our failure to maintain compliance with the requirements of and timely complete the related work programs. · We cannot assure you that GSPC, will not be successful in its efforts to obtain payment from us on account of exploration costs it has expended on the KG Offshore Block for which it asserts we are liable or otherwise seek to hold us in breach of the PSC or commence arbitration proceedings against us and be successful in its assertion that it can terminate our contract with them or the Government of India. · We cannot assure you of our ability to meet our goals and objectives. The consequences to us from adverse developments in general economic or capital market conditions, events having international consequences, or military or terrorist activities could have a material adverse effect on us. An investment in shares of our common stock involves a high degree of risk. There can be no assurance that the exploratory drilling to be conducted on the exploration blocks in which we hold an interest will result in any discovery of reserves of hydrocarbons or that any hydrocarbons that are discovered will be in commercially recoverable quantities. In addition, the realization of any revenues from commercially recoverable hydrocarbons is dependent upon the ability to deliver, store and market any hydrocarbons that are discovered. Our inability to meet our goals and objectives or the consequences to us from adverse developments in general economic or capital market conditions, events having international consequences, or military or terrorist activities could have a material adverse effect on us. We caution you that various risk factors accompany those forward-looking statements and are described, among other places, under the caption “Risk Factors” herein. They are also described in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and our Current Reports on Form 8-K. These risk factors could cause our operating results, financial condition and ability to fulfill our plans to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made in this Report and could adversely affect our financial condition and our abilit y to pursue our business strategy and plans. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As of December 31, 2010 we did not have any unresolved comments from the SEC staff that were received 180 or more days prior to year-end. 