ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have a history of incurring net losses. Since the Company’s inception in 1992 through the fiscal transition period ending December 31, 2001, we incurred net losses. We began earning profits in the fiscal year ending December 31, 2002 and continued to be profitable through December 31, 2004. However, in the fiscal year ending December 31, 2005, we incurred a net loss. In the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006, we reported net income of $196,000. We incurred net losses of $990,000 and $850,000 in fiscal years ended December 31, 2007 and 2008, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, we have an accumulated deficit of $15,238,000. We expect to continue to make substantial expenditures for sales and marketing, product development and other business purposes. Our ability to achieve profitability in the future will primarily depend on our ability to increase sales of our products, reduce production and other costs and successfully introduce new products and enhanced versions of our existing products into the marketplace. There can be no assurance that we will be able to increase our revenues at a rate that equals or exceeds expenditures. In the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, our sales were negatively impacted by the global economic crisis, which affected our results of operations. Our failure to increase sales while maintaining or reducing administrative, research and development and production costs will result in the Company incurring additional losses. 8 Our products are sold in limited markets and the failure of any one of them to achieve and continue to achieve widespread market acceptance would significantly harm our results of operation. We offer a number of point of collection tests for drugs of abuse that are sold in limited markets, and we currently derive most of our revenues from sales of our point of collection tests for drugs of abuse. Based upon actual results in 2008 and given current levels of operating expenses, we must achieve approximately $3.7 million in quarterly net sales to attain break-even results of operations. In addition, the markets in which we sell our products are cost competitive. If we are required to lower our prices to our customers, our revenue levels could be negatively impacted which would adversely affect our gross profit margins. If our products do not achieve and maintain this level of revenue, or maintain certain gross profit margins, our results of operations would be significantly harmed. Achieving continued market acceptance for our drug tests requires substantial marketing efforts and the expenditure of significant funds to inform potential customers and distributors of the distinctive characteristics, benefits and advantages of our test kits. A number of our products have only recently been introduced in the marketplace (the Rapid STAT and the Rapid TOX Cup were both introduced in 2007). We have no history upon which to base market or customer acceptance of these products. Introduction of these new products has required, and may continue to require, substantial marketing efforts and expenditure of funds. If we fail to keep up with technological factors or fail to develop our products we may be at a competitive disadvantage. The point of collection drug testing market is highly competitive. Several companies produce drug tests that compete directly with our drugs of abuse product line, including Varian, Inc., Biosite Diagnostics and Medtox Scientific, Inc. in the urine point of collection testing market and OraSure Technologies, Inc. and Varian, Inc. in the oral fluid point of collection testing market. As new technologies become introduced into the point of collection testing market, we may be required to commit considerable additional effort, time and resources to enhance our current product portfolio or develop new products. Our success will depend upon new products meeting targeted product costs and performance, in addition to timely introduction into the marketplace. We are subject to all of the risks inherent in product development, which could cause material delays in manufacturing. We rely on third parties for raw materials used in our drugs of abuse products and in our contract manufacturing processes. We currently have approximately 67 suppliers who provide us with the raw materials necessary to manufacture our point of collection drug testing strips and our point of collection tests for drugs of abuse. For most of our raw materials we have multiple suppliers, but there are a few chemical raw materials for which we only have one supplier. The loss of one or more of these suppliers, the non-performance of one or more of their materials or the lack of availability of raw materials could suspend our manufacturing process related to our drugs of abuse products. This interruption of the manufacturing process could impair our ability to fill customers’ orders as they are placed, which would put the Company at a competitive disadvantage. Furthermore, we rely on a number of third parties for supply of the raw materials necessary to manufacture the test components we supply to other diagnostic companies under contract manufacturing agreements. For most of these raw materials we have multiple suppliers, however, there are a few chemical raw materials for which we only have one supplier. The loss of one or more of these suppliers could suspend the strip manufacturing process and this interruption could impair our ability to perform contract manufacturing services. We have a significant amount of raw material and “work in process” inventory on hand that may not be used in the next twelve months if the expected configuration of sales orders are not received at our projected levels. We currently have approximately $3.1 million in raw material components for the manufacture of our products at December 31, 2008. The non-chemical raw material components may be retained and used in production indefinitely and the chemical raw materials components have lives in excess of 20 years. In addition to the raw material inventory, we have approximately $2.2 million in manufactured testing strips, or other “work in process” inventory at December 31, 2008. The components for much of this “work in process” inventory have lives of 12-24 months. If sales orders received are not for devices that would utilize the raw material components, or if product developments make the raw materials obsolete, we may be required to dispose of the unused raw materials. In addition, since the components for much of the “work in process” inventory have lives of 12-24 months, if sales orders within the next 12-24 months are not for devices that contain the components of the “work in process” inventory, we may need to discard the unused “work in process” inventory. Beginning in 2004, we established a reserve for obsolete or slow moving inventory. In 2008, we increased this reserve to $308,000. There can be no assurance that this reserve will be adequate for 2009 and/or that it will not have to be increased. 9 We depend on our R&D team for product development and/or product enhancement. Our R&D team performs product development and/or enhancement. There can be no assurance that our R&D team can successfully complete the enhancement of our current products and/or complete the development of new products. Furthermore, the loss of one or more members of our R&D team could result in the interruption or termination of new product development and/or current product enhancement, affecting our ability to provide new or improved products to the marketplace, which would put the Company at a competitive disadvantage. Our products must be cost competitive and perform to the satisfaction of our customers. Cost competitiveness and satisfactory product performance are essential for success in the point of collection drug testing market. There can be no assurance that new products we may develop will meet projected price or performance objectives. In fact, price competition is increasing in the point of collection testing markets as additional foreign (i.e. non-U.S. based companies) manufacturers enter the market. Many foreign manufacturers have lower manufacturing costs and therefore can offer their products at a lower price than a U.S. manufacturer. These lower costs include, but are not limited to, costs for labor, materials, regulatory compliance and insurance. Due to the variety and complexity of the environments in which our customers operate, our products may not operate as expected, unanticipated problems may arise with respect to the technologies incorporated into our test kits or product defects affecting product performance may become apparent after commercial introduction of new test kits we put on the market. In the event that we are required to remedy defects in any of our products after commercial introduction, the costs to the Company could be significant. Any of these issues could result in cancelled orders, delays and increased expenses. In addition, the success of competing products and technologies, pricing pressures or manufacturing difficulties could further reduce our profitability and the price of our securities. One of our customers accounted for approximately 11.2% of the total net sales of the Company for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008. Although we have entered into a written purchase agreement with this customer, this customer does not have any minimum purchase obligations and could stop buying our products with 90 days notice. A reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from this customer or the loss of this customer could reduce the Company’s revenues and profits. The Company cannot provide assurance that this customer or any of its current customers will continue to place orders, that orders by existing customers will continue at current or historical levels or that the Company will be able to obtain orders from new customers. We face significant competition in the drug testing market and potential technological obsolescence. We face competition from other manufacturers of point of collection tests for drugs of abuse. Manufacturers such as Varian, Inc., Medtox Scientific, Inc., Biosite Diagnostics and OraSure Technologies, Inc. are better known and some have far greater financial resources than ABMC. In addition to these manufacturers, there are a number of smaller privately held companies, as well as foreign manufacturers, that serve as our competitors. The markets for point of collection tests for drugs of abuse are highly competitive. Currently, the pricing of our products is cost competitive, but competing on a cost basis against foreign manufacturers becomes more difficult as costs to produce our products in the United States continue to increase. Furthermore, some of our competitors can devote substantially more resources than we can to business development and they may adopt more aggressive pricing policies. We expect other companies to develop technologies or products that will compete with our products. 10 Possible inability to hire and retain qualified personnel. We will need additional skilled sales and marketing, technical and production personnel to grow the business. If we fail to retain our present staff or hire additional qualified personnel our business could suffer. We depend on key personnel to manage our business effectively. We are dependent on the expertise and experience of our senior management such as Stan Cipkowski, Chief Executive Officer, Martin Gould, Chief Scientific Officer and Todd Bailey, Vice President, Sales & Marketing for our future success. The loss of Messrs. Cipkowski, Gould and/or Bailey could negatively impact our business and results of operations. We currently maintain key man insurance for Messrs. Cipkowski and Gould. Although we have employment agreements in place with Messrs. Cipkowski and Gould, there can be no assurance that any of our senior management will continue their employment. Failure to effectively manage growth and expansion could adversely affect our business and operating results. We may expand our operations in the future. Any failure to manage our growth effectively will result in less efficient operations, which could adversely affect our operating and financial results. To effectively manage our growth, we must, among other things: § accurately estimate the number of employees we will require and the areas in which they will be required; § upgrade and expand our office infrastructure so that it is appropriate for our level of activity; § manage expansion into additional geographic areas; and § improve and refine our operating and financial systems We expect to devote considerable resources and management time to improving our operating and financial systems to manage our growth. Failure to accomplish any of these objectives would impede our ability to deliver products and services in a timely fashion, fulfill existing customer orders and attract and retain new customers. These impediments would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Any adverse changes in our regulatory framework could negatively impact our business. Marketing clearance from FDA is not currently required for the sale of our products in non-clinical markets, but is required in the clinical and over-the-counter (“OTC”) markets. Our point of collection drug tests are 510(k) cleared and have met FDA requirements for professional use (with the exception of the OralStat and Rapid STAT which are not 510(k) cleared and are therefore for forensic use only) and we have been granted a CLIA waiver from FDA related to our Rapid TOX product line. The Workplace and Government/Corrections/Law Enforcement markets are currently our primary markets and if any additional FDA clearance is required to sell in these markets, this additional cost may cause us to raise the price of our products and make it difficult to compete with other point of collection products or laboratory based testing, thereby negatively impacting our revenues. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that if we are required to apply for additional FDA clearances that they will be granted. If such clearance(s) is/are not granted, we would be unable to sell our products in the Workplace and/or Government/Corrections/Law Enforcement markets, and our revenues would be negatively impacted. Although we are currently unaware of any changes in regulatory standards related to any of our markets, if regulatory standards were to change in the future, there can be no assurance that FDA will grant us the approvals, if and when we apply for them, required to comply with the changes. We rely on intellectual property rights, and we may not be able to obtain patent or other protection for our technology, products or services. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology, products and services. We also believe that factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, new product developments, product enhancements and name recognition are essential to establishing and maintaining our technology leadership position. Our personnel are bound by non-disclosure agreements. However, in some instances, some courts have not enforced all aspects of such agreements. 11 We seek to protect our proprietary products under trade secret and copyright laws, which afford only limited protection. We currently have a total of 26 U.S. and foreign patents related to our POCT products. We have additional patent applications pending in the United States, and other countries, related to our POCT products. We have trademark applications pending in the United States. Certain trademarks have been registered in the United States and in other countries. There can be no assurance that the additional patents and/or trademarks will be granted or that, if granted, they will withstand challenge. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain information that we regard as proprietary. We may be required to incur significant costs to protect our intellectual property rights in the future. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not ensure that our means of protecting our proprietary rights in the United States or abroad will be adequate. Policing and enforcement against the unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights could entail significant expenses and could prove difficult or impossible. Potential issuance and exercise of new options and warrants and exercise of outstanding options and warrants, along with the conversion of outstanding Convertible Debentures could adversely affect the value of our securities. The Board of Directors of the Company has adopted four Non-statutory Stock Option Plans providing for the granting of options to employees, directors, and consultants, however, two of those plans, the Fiscal 1997 Plan and the Fiscal 1998 Plan, have no options available for issuance and there are no options issued and outstanding under either plan. As of December 31, 2008 there were 990,500 options issued and outstanding under the Fiscal 2000 Plan and 2,771,580 options issued and outstanding under the Fiscal 2001 Plan, for a total of 3,762,080 options issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2008. All of these options are fully vested. As of December 31, 2008, there were 9,500 options available for issuance under the Fiscal 2000 Plan and 945,420 options available for issuance under the Fiscal 2001 Plan. On August 15, 2008, the Company completed an offering of Series A Debentures (the “Offering”) and received gross proceeds of $750,000 in principal amount of Series A Debentures (see Current Report on Form 8-K and amendment on Form 8-K/A-1 filed with the Commission on August 8, 2008 and August 18, 2008 respectively). Holders of the Series A Debentures will have a right of conversion of the principal amount of the Series A Debentures into shares (the “Debenture Conversion Shares”) of the common stock of the Company (“Common Stock”), at a conversion rate of 666.67 shares per $500 in principal amount of the Series A Debentures (representing a conversion price of approximately $0.75 per share). This conversion right can be exercised at any time, commencing the earlier of (a) 120 days after the date of the Series A Debentures, or (b) the effective date of a Registration Statement to be filed by the Company with respect to the Conversion Shares. The Company has the right to redeem any Series A Debentures that have not been surrendered for conversion at a price equal to the Series A Debentures’ face value plus $0.05 per underlying common share, or $525 per $500 in principal amount of the Series A Debentures. The Company can exercise this redemption right at any time within 90 days after any date when the closing price of the Common Stock has equaled or exceeded $2.00 per share for a period of 20 consecutive trading days. As placement agent, Cantone Research, Inc. (“Cantone”) received a placement agent fee, and was also issued a four year warrant to purchase 30,450 shares of the Company’s common stock at an exercise price of $0.37 per share (the closing price of the Company’s common shares on the Closing Date) and a four year warrant to purchase 44,550 shares of the Company’s common stock at an exercise price of $0.40 per share (the closing price of the Company’s common stock on the Series A Completion Date), (together the “Placement Agent Warrants”). All Warrants issued to Cantone are immediately exercisable upon issuance. 12 If these Options, Debenture Conversion Shares or Placement Agent Warrants are exercised, the common shares issued will be freely tradable, increasing the total number of common shares issued and outstanding. If these shares are offered for sale in the public market, the sales could adversely affect the prevailing market price by lowering the bid price of our securities. The exercise of any of these Options, Debenture Conversion Shares or Placement Agent Warrants could also materially impair our ability to raise capital through the future sale of equity securities because issuance of the common shares underlying the Options, Debenture Conversion Shares or Placement Agent Warrants would cause further dilution of our securities. In addition, in the event of any change in the outstanding shares of our common stock by reason of any recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, stock dividend, reorganization consolidation, combination or exchange of shares, merger or any other changes in our corporate or capital structure or our common shares, the number and class of shares covered by the Options and/or the Exercise Price of the Options may be adjusted as set forth in their plans. Substantial resale of restricted securities may depress the market price of our securities. There are 3,993,155 common shares presently issued and outstanding as of the date hereof that are “restricted securities” as that term is defined under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, (the “Securities Act”) and in the future may be sold in compliance with Rule 144 of the Securities Act, or pursuant to a Registration Statement filed under the Securities Act. Rule 144 provides that a person holding restricted securities for a period of one year or more may, in any three month period, sell those securities in unsolicited brokerage transactions or in transactions with a market maker, in an amount equal to the greater of one percent of our outstanding common shares or the average weekly trading volume for the prior four weeks. Sales of unrestricted shares by affiliates of the Company are also subject to the same limitation upon the number of shares that may be sold in any three-month period. Investors should be aware that sales under Rule 144 or 144(k), or pursuant to a registration statement filed under the Act, may depress the market price of our securities in any market that may develop for such shares. We believe we will need additional funding for our existing and future operations. Our financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 have been prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern. We do not believe, based on certain assumptions, including our expectation that the overall global economic crisis will continue to have a negative impact on our business in 2009, that our current cash balances, and cash generated from future operations will be sufficient to fund operations for the next twelve months. Future events, including the problems, delays, expenses and difficulties which may be encountered in establishing and maintaining a substantial market for our products, could make cash on hand insufficient to fund operations. If cash generated from operations is insufficient to satisfy our working capital and capital expenditure requirements, we may be required to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain additional credit facilities. There can be no assurance that such financing will be available or that we will be able to complete financing on satisfactory terms, if at all. Any such equity financing may result in further dilution to existing shareholders. Our ability to retain and attract market makers is important to the continued trading of our securities. Our common shares trade on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol “ABMC”. In the event that the market makers cease to function as such, public trading of our securities will be adversely affected or may cease entirely. If we fail to meet the continued listing requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market, our securities could be delisted. Our securities are listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. The NASDAQ Stock Market (“NASDAQ”) Marketplace Rules impose requirements for companies listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market to maintain their listing status, including but not limited to minimum common share bid price of $1.00, and $2,500,000 in shareholders' equity or $500,000 in net income in the last fiscal year. As of the date of this report and for the past twelve months our common shares are trading and have traded below the minimum bid requirement. In October 2008, NASDAQ advised us that, because of the extraordinary market conditions, NASDAQ was suspending enforcement of the bid price and market value requirements through January 16, 2009. In December 2008, NASDAQ further extended this suspension until April 20, 2009, and again on March 24, 2009, NASDAQ notified us that they were further extending this suspension until July 20, 2009. Although these suspensions have provided us more time to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement, there can be no assurance that these suspensions will in fact enable us to regain compliance. Our continued failure to regain compliance with NASDAQ listing requirements will more than likely result in delisting of our securities. 13 Delisting could reduce the ability of investors to purchase or sell our securities as quickly and as inexpensively as they have done historically and could subject transactions in our securities to the penny stock rules. Furthermore, failure to obtain listing on another market or exchange may make it more difficult for traders to sell our securities. Broker-dealers may be less willing or able to sell or make a market in our securities because of the penny stock disclosure rules. Not maintaining a listing on a major stock market may result in a decrease in the trading price of our securities due to a decrease in liquidity and less interest by institutions and individuals in investing in our securities. Delisting from NASDAQ could also make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future. We may incur additional significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. We may incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses as a result of our required compliance with certain regulations. More specifically, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act"), as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the SEC, have imposed various new requirements on public companies. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations are expected to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and may make some activities more time-consuming and costly. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, in our fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, management was required to perform system and process evaluation and testing of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Commencing in our fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, our independent registered public accounting firm will report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. As a result, our compliance with Section 404 may require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. We currently do not have an internal audit group, and we may need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge to ensure compliance with these regulations. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we, or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our common shares could decline, and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. As of the date of this report, we are not in compliance with certain financial covenants required by our primary financial institution, First Niagara Financial Group (“FNFG”), and such non-compliance could cause FNFG to accelerate our loans. We currently have a line of credit, a real estate mortgage and a term note (“Credit Facilities”) with FNFG (See Note D and Note E). On February 4, 2009, we received a letter from FNFG notifying the Company that an event of default had occurred under our Letter Agreement and other documents (the “Loan Documents”), related to the Credit Facilities; more specifically, we failed to comply with the maximum monthly net loss covenant set forth in the Letter Agreement. Pursuant to the terms of the Loan Documents, all obligations of the Company to FNFG under the Loan Documents can be declared by FNFG to be immediately due and payable. The principal amount totals $1,636,635.97, plus interest and other charges through February 4, 2009 (collectively, the “Debt”). 14 The February 4, 2009 notice also stated that, as an accommodation to the Company, FNFG decided not to immediately accelerate the Debt, and that they expected the Company to enter into a Forbearance Agreement with FNFG memorializing measures and conditions required by FNFG. FNFG also notified the Company that they were reducing the commitment on our line of credit to $650,000 (previously the line of credit commitment was $750,000), and placing a hold on one of our accounts held at FNFG, which had a balance of $108,000 as of February 4, 2009. On March 12, 2009, we entered into a Forbearance Agreement (the “Agreement”) with FNFG. The Agreement addresses the Company’s non-compliance with the maximum monthly net loss and the minimum debt service coverage ratio covenants (“Existing Defaults”) under the Loan Documents related to extensions of credit made by FNFG to the Company; more specifically the Company’s line of credit, term note and real estate mortgage (the “Debt”) with FNFG. Under the terms of the Agreement, FNFG will forbear from exercising its rights and remedies arising under the Loan Documents from the Existing Defaults. The Agreement is in effect until (i) June 1, 2009; or (ii) the date on which FNFG elects to terminate the Agreement upon the occurrence of an event of default under the Agreement or under the Loan Documents (other than an Existing Default); or (iii) the date on which any subsequent amendment to the Agreement becomes effective (the “Forbearance Period”). Under the Agreement, during the Forbearance Period: FNFG will waive any further default relating to the maximum monthly net loss covenant and minimum debt service coverage ratio provided the Company shows a net loss no greater than $300,000 for the quarter ending March 31, 2009, and on or before May 1, 2009, the Company must produce to FNFG a legally binding and executed commitment letter from a bona-fide third party lender setting forth the terms of a full refinancing of the Debt to close on or before June 1, 2009. During the Forbearance Period, FNFG will continue to place a hold on one of our accounts, but will release up to $5,000 per month from the account to be used for the purpose of paying a financial advisory firm engaged by the Company to find and evaluate alternative funding sources; the financial advisory firm was referred to the Company by FNFG. The maximum available under the line of credit during the Forbearance Period will be the lesser of $650,000, or the Net Borrowing Capacity. Net Borrowing Capacity is defined as Gross Borrowing Capacity less the Inventory Value Cap. Gross Borrowing Capacity is defined as (i) the sum of 80% of eligible accounts receivable, (ii) 20% of raw material inventory and (iii) 40% of finished goods inventory. Inventory Value Cap is defined as the lesser of $400,000, or the combined value of items (ii) and (iii) of Gross Borrowing Capacity. Since September 2008, the Company’s Net Borrowing Capacity has declined from $1,195,000 to $795,000 as of the date of this report. During the Forbearance Period, interest shall accrue on the line of credit at the rate of prime plus 4%, an increase from prime plus 1%. Interest accruing on the real estate mortgage during the Forbearance Period shall remain unchanged at the fixed rate of 7.5% and interest on the term note shall remain unchanged at the fixed rate of 7.17%. In the event of default under the Agreement, interest under the line of credit shall increase to the greater of prime plus 6% or 10%. The line of credit shall terminate on June 1, 2009. If we are unable to maintain compliance with any of the conditions during the Forbearance Period, or if we are unable to secure a full refinancing of the Debt on or before June 1, 2009, FNFG will have the right to accelerate the Debt, however, the Company could request an extension of the Forbearance Period. If FNFG did not agree to an extension of the Forbearance Period and were to exercise its right to accelerate the Debt, the Company does not have the funds available to pay the Debt and FNFG may enforce their rights and remedies available under the Loan Documents, including but not limited to foreclosure of its liens on the Company’s assets. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 