Item 1A. Risk FACTORS We have a history of incurring net losses. Since our inception and throughout most of our history, we have incurred net losses, including but not limited to, a net loss of $345,000 incurred in the year ended December 31, 2011. We expect to continue to make substantial expenditures for sales and marketing, product development and other business purposes. Our ability to achieve profitability in the future will primarily depend on our ability to increase sales of our products, reduce production and other costs and successfully introduce new products and enhanced versions of our existing products into the marketplace. There can be no assurance that we will be able to increase our revenues at a rate that equals or exceeds expenditures. In the year ended December 31, 2011, our sales continued to be negatively impacted by the recession, which negatively impacted our results of operations. Our failure to increase sales while maintaining or reducing general and administrative, sales and marketing, research and development and production costs will result in the Company incurring additional losses. 10 We believe we will need additional funding for our existing and future operations. Our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011 have been prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern. If global economic conditions do not improve, we do not believe that our current cash balances, and cash generated from future operations will be sufficient to fund operations for the next twelve months. Future events, including the problems, delays, expenses and difficulties which may be encountered in establishing and maintaining a substantial market for our products, could make cash on hand insufficient to fund operations. If cash generated from operations is insufficient to satisfy our working capital and capital expenditure requirements, we may be required to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain additional credit facilities. There can be no assurance that such financing will be available or that we will be able to complete financing on satisfactory terms, if at all. Any such equity financing would result in further dilution to existing shareholders. The POCT market for DOA is highly competitive. The POCT market for DOA is highly competitive. Several companies produce drug tests that compete directly with our DOA product line, including Alere (formerly Inverness Medical Innovations, Inc.) and its subsidiaries, as well as OraSure Technologies, Inc. In addition to these manufacturers, there are a number of smaller privately held companies, as well as foreign manufacturers, that compete with us. Cost-competitiveness, technological requirements and satisfactory product performance are essential for success in the POCT market for DOA. Cost Competitiveness. Price competition continues to increase in the POCT markets as more companies offer products manufactured outside of the United States. Many foreign manufacturers have lower manufacturing costs and therefore can offer their products at a lower price. These lower costs include, but are not limited to, costs for labor, materials, regulatory compliance and insurance. If we are required to lower our prices to our customers, our revenue levels could be negatively impacted which would adversely affect our gross profit margins. Based upon actual results in the year ended December 31, 2011, and given current levels of operating expenses, we must achieve approximately $2.5 million in quarterly net sales to attain break-even results of operations. If our products do not achieve and maintain this level of revenue, or if we fail to maintain certain gross profit margins, our results of operations would be significantly harmed. Technological Requirements. As new technologies are introduced into the POCT market for DOA, we may be required to commit considerable effort, time and resources to enhance our current product portfolio or develop new products to compete with these new technologies. There can be no assurance that any new enhancements or products will be successful in competing with new technologies offered by our competitors. Our success will depend upon meeting product pricing and performance objectives, and there can be no assurance that new enhancements or products will meet such price or performance objectives. We are subject to all of the risks inherent in product development, which could cause material delays in manufacturing. If we fail to keep up with technology in our industry, we may be at a competitive disadvantage or we may face technological obsolescence. Satisfactory Product Performance. Due to the variety and complexity of the environments in which our customers operate, our products may not operate as expected, unanticipated problems may arise with respect to the technologies incorporated into our drug tests or product defects affecting product performance may become apparent after commercial introduction of our drug tests to the market. We could incur significant costs if we are required to remedy defects in any of our products after commercial introduction. Any of these issues could result in cancelled orders, delays and increased expenses. In addition, some of our competitors are more well known, and some have far greater financial resources, which means they can devote substantially more resources to business and product development and marketing efforts. Our inability to successfully address any competitive risk factors could negatively impact sales and further reduce our profitability. 11 One of our customers accounted for more than 10% of our total net sales in the year ended December 31, 2011. One of our customers accounted for approximately 14.1% of our total net sales in the year ended December 31, 2011. Although we have entered into a written purchase agreement with this customer, this customer does not have any minimum purchase obligations and could stop buying our products with 90-days notice. A reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from this customer or the loss of this customer could reduce our revenues. We cannot provide assurance that this customer or any of our current customers will continue to place orders, that orders by existing customers will continue at current or historical levels or that we will be able to obtain orders from new customers. We rely on third parties for raw materials used in our DOA products and in our bulk test strip contract manufacturing processes. We currently have approximately 52 suppliers who provide us with the raw materials necessary to manufacture our point of collection drug-testing strips and our point of collection tests for DOA. For most of our raw materials we have multiple suppliers, but there are a few raw materials for which we only have one supplier. The loss of one or more of these suppliers, the non-performance of one or more of their materials or the lack of availability of raw materials could suspend our manufacturing process related to our DOA products. This interruption of the manufacturing process could impair our ability to fill customers’ orders as they are placed, putting the Company at a competitive disadvantage. Furthermore, we rely on a number of third parties for the supply of raw materials necessary to manufacture the test components we supply to other diagnostic companies under bulk test strip contract manufacturing agreements. For most of these raw materials we have multiple suppliers, but there are a few raw materials for which we only have one supplier. The loss of one or more of these suppliers could suspend the bulk test strip manufacturing process and this interruption could impair our ability to perform bulk test strip contract manufacturing services. We have a significant amount of raw material and “work in process” inventory on hand that may not be used in the year ended December 31, 2012 if the expected configuration of sales orders is not received at projected levels. We currently have approximately $1,555,000 in raw material components for the manufacture of our products at December 31, 2011. The non-chemical raw material components may be retained and used in production indefinitely and the chemical raw materials components have lives in excess of 20 years. In addition to the raw material inventory, we have approximately $1,735,000 in manufactured testing strips, or other “work in process” inventory at December 31, 2011. The components for much of this “work in process” inventory have lives of 12-24 months. If sales orders received are not for products that would utilize the raw material components, or if product developments make the raw materials obsolete, we may be required to dispose of these unused raw materials. In addition, since the components for much of the “work in process” inventory have lives of 12-24 months, if sales orders within the next 12-24 months are not for products that contain the components of the “work in process” inventory, we may need to discard this expired “work in process” inventory. We have established an allowance for obsolete or slow moving inventory. At December 31, 2011, this allowance was set to $401,000. There can be no assurance that this allowance will continue to be adequate for the year ending December 31, 2012 and/or that it will not have to be adjusted in the future. 12 We depend on our R&D team for product development and/or product enhancement. Our R&D team performs product development and/or enhancement. There can be no assurance that our R&D team can successfully complete the enhancement of our current products and/or complete the development of new products. Furthermore, the loss of one or more members of our R&D team could result in the interruption or termination of new product development and/or current product enhancement, affecting our ability to provide new or improved products to the marketplace, which would put the Company at a competitive disadvantage. Possible inability to hire and retain qualified personnel. We will need additional skilled sales and marketing, technical and production personnel to grow the business. If we fail to retain our present staff or hire additional qualified personnel our business could suffer. We depend on key personnel to manage our business effectively. We are dependent on the expertise and experience of our senior management for our future success. The loss of a member of senior management could negatively impact our business and results of operations. On March 25, 2011, we received letters of resignation from our EVP of Finance and Chief Financial Officer Stefan Parker and our EVP of Operations Douglas Casterlin (Mssrs. Parker and Casterlin had each been employed under an employment agreement with the Company). Our Chief Executive Officer Stan Cipkowski has assumed the position of interim Chief Financial Officer and Mr. Casterlin’s responsibilities have been absorbed by other employees where appropriate. We have employment agreements in place with current members of senior management, but there can be no assurance that any of our senior management will continue their employment. We maintain key man insurance for our Chief Executive Officer Stan Cipkowski. Any adverse changes in our regulatory framework could negatively impact our business. Our urine point of collection products have received 510(k) marketing clearance from the FDA, and have therefore met FDA requirements for professional use. Our oral fluid point of collection products have not received 510(k) marketing clearance from the FDA. We have also been granted a CLIA waiver from the FDA related to our Rapid TOX product line. Workplace and Government are the Company’s primary markets, and it has been our belief (based on advice from FDA counsel) that marketing clearance from FDA is not required to sell our drug tests in non-clinical (i.e. non-medical) markets (such as workplace and criminal justice/law enforcement), but is required to sell our products in the clinical and over-the-counter (consumer) markets. We do not sell our oral fluid drug tests in clinical or over-the-counter (consumer) markets. In addition, there are many other oral fluid point of collection drug tests currently being sold in the Workplace market by our competitors, none of which have received FDA marketing clearance. However, in July 2009, we received a warning letter from the FDA, which alleges we are marketing our point of collection oral fluid drug test, OralStat, in workplace settings without marketing clearance or approval (see Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on August 5, 2009). We have communicated to the FDA our belief that marketing clearance is not required in non-clinical markets, and that such belief is based upon legal advice from our FDA counsel. To date, the FDA does not agree with our interpretation of FDA regulations related to medical devices, and the FDA continues to assert jurisdiction of drug testing performed in the workplace. Although we do not concede that the FDA has jurisdiction over drug testing when performed in the workplace, we have informed the FDA that we are willing to file a marketing clearance application. However, we have also advised the FDA that specific technical and scientific issues exist when attempting to utilize FDA’s draft guidance for our oral fluid point of collection drug tests (because the draft guidance was written for urine drug tests). Although we have met with the FDA, the FDA has yet to provide the additional guidance we have requested regarding the issues identified. This has impacted our ability to collect the data needed to obtain marketing clearance, but we continue to move forward with our efforts to resolve these issues with the FDA and/or to collect the necessary supporting data to obtain marketing clearance. 13 In response to communications and interactions with the FDA, on October 16, 2010, we voluntarily and temporarily suspended selling and marketing of our oral fluid drugs of abuse products in the Workplace market. Late in March 2011, we resumed shipment of the oral fluid drugs of abuse products. The cost of obtaining marketing clearance is expected to be material and incurring such cost could have a negative impact on our efforts to improve our performance and to achieve profitability. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will obtain marketing clearance from the FDA, especially since we would be among the first companies to apply for such marketing clearance. Our point of collection oral fluid drug tests historically account for a material portion of our sales, with sales of oral fluid drug tests accounting for approximately 20% of our sales in the last two fiscal years (the majority of which are sales to the Workplace market). An inability to market and sell our point of collection oral fluid drug tests in the Workplace market will negatively impact our revenues. In addition, the current outstanding jurisdictional issue could have a negative impact on our relationships with our customers who purchase our oral fluid tests. The loss of oral fluid test customers would also negatively impact our revenues. Although we are currently unaware of any additional changes in regulatory standards related to any of our markets, if regulatory standards were to further change in the future, there can be no assurance that the FDA will grant the Company appropriate marketing clearances required to comply with the changes, if and when we apply for them. We will continue to take the necessary actions that will enable the Company to submit a marketing clearance application to the FDA, and/or any additional actions that may be required to address the jurisdictional question raised by our counsel. We rely on intellectual property rights, and we may not be able to obtain patent or other protection for our technology, products or services. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology, products and services. We also believe that factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, new product developments, product enhancements and name recognition are essential to establishing and maintaining our technology leadership position. Our personnel are bound by non-disclosure agreements. However, in some instances, some courts have not enforced all aspects of such agreements. We seek to protect our proprietary products under trade secret and copyright laws, which afford only limited protection. We currently have a total of 28 patents related to our POCT products. We have additional patent applications pending in the United States, and other countries, related to our POCT products. We have trademark applications pending in the United States. Certain trademarks have been registered in the United States and in other countries. There can be no assurance that the additional patents and/or trademarks will be granted or that, if granted, they will withstand challenge. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain information that we regard as proprietary. We may be required to incur significant costs to protect our intellectual property rights in the future. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not ensure that our means of protecting our proprietary rights in the United States or abroad will be adequate. Policing and enforcement against the unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights could entail significant expenses and could prove difficult or impossible. 14 Potential issuance and exercise of new options and warrants and exercise of outstanding options and warrants, along with the conversion of outstanding convertible debentures could adversely affect the value of our securities. We currently have two option plans, the Fiscal 2000 Non-statutory Stock Option Plan (the “2000 Plan”) and the Fiscal 2001 Non-statutory Stock Option Plan (the “2001 Plan”). Both the 2000 Plan and the 2001 Plan have been adopted by our Board of Directors and approved by our shareholders, and both have options issued, but only the 2001 Plan has options available for future issuance. As of December 31, 2011 there were 48,500 options issued and outstanding under the 2000 Plan and 2,650,080 options issued and outstanding under the 2001 Plan, for a total of 2,698,580 options issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2011. Of the total options issued and outstanding, 2,528,580 are fully vested as of December 31, 2011. As of December 31, 2011, there were 1,066,920 options available for issuance under the 2001 Plan. On August 15, 2008, we completed an offering of Series A Debentures (the “Offering”) and received gross proceeds of $750,000 in principal amount of Series A Debentures (see Current Report on Form 8-K and amendment on Form 8-K/A-1 filed with the SEC on August 8, 2008 and August 18, 2008, respectively). Holders of the Series A Debentures have a right of conversion of the principal amount of the Series A Debentures into shares (the “Debenture Conversion Shares”) of the common stock of the Company (“Common Stock”), at a conversion rate of 666.67 shares per $500 in principal amount of the Series A Debentures (representing a conversion price of approximately $0.75 per share). This conversion right can be exercised at any time, commencing the earlier of (a) 120 days after the date of the Series A Debentures, or (b) the effective date of a Registration Statement to be filed by the Company with respect to the Conversion Shares. We have the right to redeem any Series A Debentures that have not been surrendered for conversion at a price equal to the Series A Debentures’ face value plus $0.05 per underlying common share, or $525 per $500 in principal amount of the Series A Debentures. We can exercise this redemption right at any time within 90 days after any date when the closing price of the Common Stock has equaled or exceeded $2.00 per share for a period of 20 consecutive trading days. As placement agent, Cantone Research, Inc. (“Cantone”) received a placement agent fee, and was also issued a four-year warrant to purchase 30,450 shares of the Company’s common stock at an exercise price of $0.37 per share (the closing price of the Company’s common shares on the Closing Date) and a four-year warrant to purchase 44,550 shares of the Company’s common stock at an exercise price of $0.40 per share (the closing price of the Company’s common stock on the Series A Completion Date), (together the “Placement Agent Warrants”). All Warrants issued to Cantone were immediately exercisable upon issuance. We registered the Debenture Conversion Shares and the Common Stock underlying the Placement Agent Warrants in a Registration Statement on Form S-3 (the “Registration Statement”) filed with the SEC on April 15, 2009 and amended on May 5, 2009. The Registration Statement was declared effective on June 10, 2009. If these options, Debenture Conversion Shares or Placement Agent Warrants are exercised, the common shares issued will be freely tradable, increasing the total number of common shares issued and outstanding. If these shares are offered for sale in the public market, the sales could adversely affect the prevailing market price by lowering the bid price of our securities. The exercise of any of these options, Debenture Conversion Shares or Placement Agent Warrants could also materially impair our ability to raise capital through the future sale of equity securities because issuance of the common shares underlying the options, Debenture Conversion Shares or Placement Agent Warrants would cause further dilution of our securities. In addition, in the event of any change in the outstanding shares of our common stock by reason of any recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, stock dividend, reorganization consolidation, combination or exchange of shares, merger or any other changes in our corporate or capital structure or our common shares, the number and class of shares covered by the options and/or the exercise price of the options may be adjusted as set forth in their plans. 15 Substantial resale of restricted securities may depress the market price of our securities. There are 3,868,255 common shares presently issued and outstanding as of the date hereof that are “restricted securities” as that term is defined under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, (the “Securities Act”) and in the future may be sold in compliance with Rule 144 of the Securities Act (“Rule 144”), or pursuant to a registration statement filed under the Securities Act. Rule 144 addresses sales of restricted securities by affiliates and non-affiliates of an issuer. An “affiliate” is a person, such as an officer, director or large shareholder, in a relationship of control with the issuer. “Control” means the power to direct the management and policies of the company in question, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract, or otherwise. If someone buys securities from a controlling person or an affiliate, they take restricted securities, even if they were not restricted in the affiliate's hands. A person who is not an affiliate of the issuer (and who has not been for at least three months) and has held the restricted securities for at least one year can sell the securities without regard to restrictions. If the non-affiliate had held the securities for at least six months but less than one year, the securities may be sold by the non-affiliate as long as the current public information condition has been met (i.e. that the issuer has complied with the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”)). We are subject to reporting requirements of the Exchange Act. Under Rule 144, if a holder of securities is an affiliate of an issuer subject to Exchange Act reporting requirements, the securities must be held for at least six months. In addition, the number of equity securities sold during any three-month period cannot exceed 1% of the outstanding shares of the same class being sold. The securities must be sold in unsolicited, routine trading transactions and brokers may not receive more than normal commission. Affiliates must also file a notice with the SEC on Form 144 if a sale involves more than 5,000 shares or the aggregate dollar amount is greater than $50,000 in any three-month period. The sale must take place within three months of filing the Form 144 and, if the securities have not been sold, an amended notice must be filed. Investors should be aware that sales under Rule 144 or pursuant to a registration statement filed under the Securities Act may depress the market price of our securities in any market for such shares. Our securities are currently trading on the Pink OTC Markets, Inc. (under their OTCQB™ market tier), and may be subject to SEC “penny stock,” rules, which could make it more difficult for a broker-dealer to trade our common shares, for an investor to acquire or dispose of our common shares in the secondary market and for us to retain or attract market makers. The SEC has adopted regulations that define a “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price per share of less than $5.00, subject to certain exceptions, such as any securities listed on a national securities exchange or securities of an issuer in continuous operation for more than three years whose net tangible assets are in excess of $2 million, or an issuer that has average revenue of at least $6 million for the last three years. Our common shares were delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market in September 2009 and are currently trading on the Pink OTC Markets, Inc., under their OTCQB market tier (the US registered and reporting marketplace for over-the-counter (OTC) securities). As of the year ended December 31, 2011, our net tangible assets did exceed $2 million, and our average revenue for the last three years exceeded $6 million, so that our securities currently qualify for exclusion from the “penny stock” definitions. However, if our net tangible assets cease to exceed $2 million and our three-year average revenue falls below $6 million, we would fail to qualify for either of these exclusions, and our common shares would be subject to “penny stock” rules. For any transaction involving a “penny stock,” unless exempt, the rules impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers, subject to certain exceptions. For these reasons, a broker-dealer may find it more difficult to trade our common stock and an investor may find it more difficult to acquire or dispose of our common stock on the secondary market. Therefore, broker-dealers may be less willing or able to sell or make a market in our securities because of the penny stock disclosure rules. Not maintaining a listing on a major stock market may result in a decrease in the trading price of our securities due to a decrease in liquidity and less interest by institutions and individuals in investing in our securities, and could also make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future. Furthermore, listing on the OTCQB may make it more difficult to retain and attract market makers. In the event that market makers cease to function as such, public trading of our securities will be adversely affected or may cease entirely. 16 We incur additional significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. We incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses as a result of our required compliance with certain regulations. More specifically, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”), and other rules subsequently implemented by the SEC, impose various requirements on public companies. Our management and other personnel must devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. Management is required to perform system and process evaluation and testing of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires companies to obtain auditor’s attestation related to their assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Wall Street Reform Act”). Section 989G of the Wall Street Reform Act expressly exempts issuers that are neither “large accelerated filers” nor “accelerated filers” (which includes smaller reporting companies, and we are a smaller reporting company) from the requirement contained in Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes Oxley Act to provide an auditor attestation of internal control over financial reporting. Although we are not required to comply with Section 404(b), we remain subject to Section 404(a) (that is, management’s report on our internal controls over financial reporting). Our testing may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. As a result, our compliance with Section 404(a) may require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. We do not have an internal audit group, and we may need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge to ensure compliance with these regulations and/or to correct such material weaknesses. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404(a), or if we identify deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting, the market price of our common shares could decline, and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. Difficult conditions in the global economy have adversely affected our business and results of operations and it is uncertain if these conditions will improve in the near future. The global economy has faced an extended worldwide recession and economic crisis. This recession and economic crisis has substantially reduced our sales and negatively impacted our results of operations. The magnitude and duration of this recession and economic crisis make it extremely difficult to forecast future sales levels. A continuation of the recession or worsening of the economic crisis could continue to lead to lower sales, lower gross margins and increased bad debt risks, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. There could be a number of other adverse effects on the Company’s business, including insolvency of customers and suppliers. 17 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 