ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, the following factors should be considered carefully in evaluating Conceptus and our business. This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended and section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Some of the forward-looking statements can be identified by use of forward-looking words such as “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “seeks,” “approximates,” “intends,” “plans,” or “estimates,” or the negative of these words, or other comparable terminology. The discussion of financial trends, strategy, plans or intentions may also include forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. Although it is not possible to predict or identify all such risks and uncertainties, they may include, but are not limited to, the following factors. The readers should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. We are presently a one product company and if our product fails to gain market acceptance, our business will suffer. Notwithstanding FDA approval to market the Essure system in November 2002, the Essure system is a novel product compared to other products in the contraception market, which is dominated by procedures that are well established among physicians and patients and are routinely taught to new physicians. As a result, we believe that recommendations and endorsements by physicians will be essential for market acceptance of our product. We do not know whether physicians and patients will accept our product or whether we will be able to obtain their recommendations or endorsements in sufficient amounts to be profitable. We believe that physicians will not use a product unless they determine, based on clinical data and other factors, that it is an attractive alternative to other means of contraception and that it offers clinical utility in a cost-effective manner. Physicians are traditionally slow to adopt new products and treatment practices, partly because of perceived liability risks. We are dependent on the Essure system, which is currently our only commercial product. If the Essure system does not achieve significant market acceptance among physicians, patients and healthcare payers, even if reimbursement levels are sufficient and necessary U.S. and international regulatory approvals are maintained, we may never achieve significant revenues or profitability. We have a limited history of operation with the Essure system and since inception, have had a negative cash flow from operations and incurred operating losses. We expect to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future and we may never achieve or maintain profitability. We have a limited history of operation with the Essure system and since our inception in 1992, we have had a negative cash flow from operations and have incurred operating losses, including operating losses of $19.8 million in fiscal year 2006, $22.7 million in the fiscal year 2005 and $26.6 million in fiscal 2004. We expect to continue to incur significant operating expenses and net losses as we continue sales and marketing efforts in the United States. Our net loss will continue until sufficient revenues can be generated to offset these expenses. These losses have caused and will cause our stockholders’ equity and net current assets to decrease. We may not be able to generate these revenues, and we may never achieve profitability. Our failure to achieve and sustain profitability would negatively impact the market price of our common stock and our ability to satisfy our obligations in the future. If the effectiveness and safety of our product are not supported by long-term data, we may not achieve market acceptance and we could be subject to liability. In September 2005, we received FDA approval to terminate our post-approval study with physicians newly trained in performing the Essure procedure due to the positive placement data obtained to date. The purpose of the post-approval study, required by FDA as a condition of the November 2002 approval of the 20 Essure system, was to determine the rate of successful bilateral placements of the Essure micro-inserts at first attempt with a large number of newly trained physicians who were not part of the previous clinical studies. Although treatment of the total number of patients required by FDA had not been completed, the data obtained provided us with the ability to request an early termination of the study. Because of the FDA ruling, the PMA Supplement submitted in March 2005 has been reclassified as a Final Report. The results of the post-approval study demonstrated an improvement in placement rates from those obtained in the pivotal study. In November 2005, we filed a PMA supplement with the FDA in order to obtain approval to modify the Essure Physician and Patient labeling to reflect a 94.6% first procedure bilateral placement rate based on results of the post-approval study. In October 2006, we received such approval from the FDA. Nevertheless, the long-term results of using the Essure device will not be available for several years. If long-term studies or clinical experience indicate that the Essure system is less effective or less safe than our current data suggest, we may not achieve or sustain market acceptance and/or we could be subject to significant liability. Our advertising campaigns may not be successful. Our advertising programs, which are aimed at increasing consumer awareness for our product, are generally expensive and may have limited success, if any. We have recently increased the number and extent of these advertising programs to make more women aware of the Essure procedure. Such campaigns require consumers to make contact with an Essure trained physician, often involving a referral from their primary care physician, and to then be provided information regarding birth control options by the physician, be preauthorized for insurance reimbursement and then be scheduled for the procedure. Many of these steps are not within our control, and the programs may not result in revenue generation commensurate with their costs. If we fail to manage any expansion or acquisition, our business could be impaired. We may in the future acquire one or more technologies, products or companies that complement our business. We may not be able to effectively integrate these into our business and any such acquisition could bring additional risks, exposures and challenges to our company. In addition, acquisitions may dilute our earnings per share, disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses, subject us to liabilities and increase our risk of litigation, all of which could harm our business. If we use cash to acquire technologies, products or companies, it may divert resources otherwise available for other purposes. If we use our common stock to acquire technologies, products or companies, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution. If we fail to manage any expansion or acquisition, our business could be impaired. We face intense competition, and if we are unable to compete effectively, demand for the Essure system may be reduced. The medical device industry is highly competitive and is characterized by rapid and significant technological change. The length of time required for product development and regulatory approval plays an important role in a company’s competitive position. As we commercialize the Essure system, we expect to compete with: · other methods of permanent contraception, in particular tubal ligation; · other methods of non-permanent contraception, including devices such as intrauterine devices, or IUDs, vaginal rings, condoms and prescription drugs such as the birth control pill, injectable and implantable contraceptives and patches; and 21 · other companies that may develop permanent contraception devices that are similar to or otherwise compete with the Essure system. We are aware of a company that is in the clinical stages of development for non-incisional permanent contraception devices. In addition, new competition and products may arise due to mergers or acquisitions completed by others. Our competitors may be acquired by companies with greater corporate, financial, operational, sales and marketing resources, and more experience in research and development than we have. We cannot assure you that our competitors will not succeed in developing or marketing technologies or products that may render the Essure system obsolete or noncompetitive or reduce demand for the Essure system. For example, a December 2006 press report linked a decline in the price of our common stock with the announcement that a competitor had asked the FDA to approve its permanent birth control product. In February 2007 that competitor announced entering into a definitive merger agreement with a well capitalized medical device company. We may not have the financial resources, technical expertise, marketing, distribution or support capabilities to compete successfully in the future. We, our contract manufacturer and our subcontractors may not meet regulatory quality standards applicable to our manufacturing processes, which could have an adverse effect on our business. As a medical device manufacturer, we are required to register with the FDA and are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA for compliance with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation (QSR) requirements, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain good manufacturing practice regulations, including testing, quality control and documentation procedures. In addition, the federal Medical Device Reporting regulations require us to provide information to the FDA whenever there is evidence that reasonably suggests that a device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or, if a malfunction were to occur, could cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements is subject to continual review and is rigorously monitored through periodic inspections by the FDA. Our contract manufacturer, component suppliers and other subcontractors are also required to meet certain standards applicable to their manufacturing processes. In April 2004, we received FDA approval to begin manufacturing the Essure product at Accellent, Inc., or Accellent, formerly named Venusa, our third-party subcontractor located in Mexico. We transitioned almost all of our internal manufacturing operations to Accellent by the end of 2004 to manufacture the components and assemble our product. Similarly, we have subcontracted with Sterigenics International to handle the sterilization of our products. We cannot assure you that we, our contract manufacturer, component suppliers or other subcontractors will be able to maintain compliance with all regulatory requirements. The failure by us or contract manufacturer, component suppliers or other subcontractors to achieve or maintain compliance with these requirements or quality standards may disrupt our ability to supply products sufficient to meet demand until compliance is achieved or, in the case of our contract manufacturer, component supplier or subcontractor, until a new manufacturer, supplier or subcontractor has been identified and evaluated. In addition, our failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our products, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could harm our business. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that if we find it necessary to engage new manufacturers, suppliers or subcontractors to satisfy our business requirements, that we will be able to locate new manufacturers, suppliers or contractors who are in compliance with regulatory requirements. Our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business. 22 We may experience disruption in supply due to our dependence on our contract manufacturers to supply our commercial product requirements and our inability to obtain suppliers of certain components for our products. Our suppliers may encounter problems during manufacturing due to a variety of reasons, including failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, failure to comply with applicable regulations, equipment malfunctions, labor shortages or environmental factors. In addition, we and our third party manufacturer purchase both raw materials used in our product and finished goods from various suppliers, and we rely on a single source supplier for certain components of our product. Although we anticipate that we have adequate sources of supply and/or inventory of these components to handle our production needs for the foreseeable future, if we or our contract manufacturer are unable to secure on a timely basis sufficient quantities of the materials we depend on to manufacture our products, if we encounter delays or contractual or other difficulties in our relationships with these suppliers, or if we cannot find suppliers at an acceptable cost, then the manufacture of our products may be disrupted, which could increase our costs and have a material adverse effect on our business. Our agreements and contracts entered into with partners and other third parties may not be successful. We signed in the past and may pursue in the future contracts and agreements with third parties that would assist our marketing, manufacturing, selling and distribution efforts. For example, in January 2004, we completed the sale of our wholly-owned French subsidiary for a nominal amount to an investor group comprised of our former French management team, and signed a long-term exclusive distribution agreement for the Essure device with the acquiring group, Conceptus SAS, for certain markets. The sale agreement includes a long-term call option that is intended to enable us to repurchase Conceptus SAS. In February 2007, we amended the call option and distribution agreement with our French distributor. The amendment provided that we will exercise the call option sometime between January 1, 2008 and January 2, 2009, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions. In connection with agreeing to exercise the call option under these circumstances, we concurrently amended the distribution agreement such that we will increase the price at which we sell the Essure device to our French distributor and that we will not exercise the call option in 2007. In addition, in January 2005, we decided to market and sell our product in Australia through a third party distributor and closed down our direct operations. We cannot assure you that these agreements or arrangements or any others entered into in the future will be successful. Government or third party reimbursement for the Essure procedure may not be available or may be inadequate, which would limit our future product revenues and delay or prevent our profitability. Market acceptance of the Essure system in the United States and in international markets will depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement within prevailing healthcare payment systems. Reimbursement systems in international markets vary significantly by country and sometimes by region, and reimbursement approvals must be obtained on a country-by-country basis. Many international markets have government managed health care systems that determine reimbursement for new devices and procedures. In most markets, there are private insurance systems as well as government managed systems. Regardless of the type of reimbursement system, we believe that physician advocacy of our product will be required to obtain reimbursement. Availability and extent of continued reimbursement will depend, at least in part, on the clinical and cost effectiveness of our product. We cannot assure you that reimbursement for our product will continue to be available in the United States or in international markets under either government or private reimbursement systems, or that physicians will support and advocate reimbursement for use of our product for all indications intended by us. In November 2006, The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, published the 2007 Physician Fee and Five Year Review final rule. This rule impacts a variety of 23 medical procedures. In the final rule, the physician global fee for the Essure procedure is reduced to $2,017 for a Medicare non-adjusted national average. The rule also reduces the global payment over a 4-year period by approximately 30%. At the same time, the 2007 Hospital Outpatient Final Rule (HOPPS) increased outpatient hospital payments and ambulatory surgery center payments were increased by 7% and 112%, respectively. We have also had reimbursement reductions in France and have had coverage declined in Australia. We may be unable to obtain or maintain reimbursement in any country within a particular time frame, for a particular amount, or at all, which would limit our future product revenues and delay or prevent our profitability. We may not maintain regulatory approvals for the Essure system, which would delay or prevent us from generating product revenues, and would harm our business and force us to curtail or cease operations. Numerous government authorities, both in the United States and internationally, regulate the manufacture and sale of medical devices, including the Essure system. In the United States, the principal regulatory authorities are the FDA and corresponding state agencies, such as the California Department of Health Services. The process of obtaining and maintaining required regulatory clearances is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. We have received FDA approval to market the Essure system in the United States. If we lose that approval or fail to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements, it would delay or prevent us from generating further product revenues. Sales of medical devices outside of the United States are subject to international regulatory requirements that vary widely from country to country. The time required to obtain clearance required by foreign countries may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA clearance, and requirements for licensing may differ significantly from FDA requirements. Many countries in which we currently market or intend to market the Essure system either do not currently regulate medical devices or have minimal registration requirements; however, these countries may develop more extensive regulations in the future, which could delay or prevent us from marketing the Essure system in these countries. The FDA and certain foreign regulatory authorities impose numerous requirements with which medical device manufacturers must comply in order to maintain regulatory approvals. FDA enforcement policy strictly prohibits the promotion of approved medical devices for uses other than those for which the device is specifically approved by the FDA. We are required to adhere to applicable FDA regulations, such as QSR, and similar regulations in other countries, which include testing, control and documentation requirements. Ongoing compliance with QSR and other applicable regulatory requirements are monitored through periodic inspections by federal and state agencies, including the FDA and the California Department of Health Services, and by comparable agencies in other countries. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we may be subject to, among other things, warning letters, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, refusal of the government to grant pre-market clearance or pre-market approval for devices, withdrawal of approvals and criminal prosecution, any of which could negatively impact our business. We may be subject, directly or indirectly, to federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations and, if we are unable to fully comply with such laws, could face substantial penalties. Our operations may be directly or indirectly affected by various broad state and federal healthcare fraud and abuse laws. Such laws include the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and related state anti-kickback laws, which prohibit any person from knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual, or the 24 furnishing, purchasing, leasing or ordering of, or arranging for or recommending the furnishing, purchasing, leasing or ordering of an item or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs, such as Medicaid programs. The federal Stark law and self referral prohibitions under analogous state laws restrict referrals by physicians and, in some instances, other healthcare providers, practitioners and professionals, to entities with which they have indirect or direct financial relationships for furnishing of designated health services. These healthcare fraud and abuse laws are subject to evolving interpretations by various state and federal enforcement and regulatory authorities. Under current interpretations of the federal false claims act and certain similar state laws, some of these laws may also be subject to enforcement in a qui tam lawsuit brought by a private party “whistleblower,” with or without the intervention of the government. If our past or present operations are found to be in violation of these laws and not protected under a statutory exception or regulatory safe harbor provision to the applicable fraud and abuse laws, we, our officers or our employees may be subject to civil or criminal penalties, including large monetary penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment and exclusion from federal healthcare program participation, including the exclusion of our products from use in treatment of Medicaid or other federal healthcare program patients. If federal or state investigations or enforcement actions were to occur, our business and financial condition would be harmed. Our intellectual property rights may not provide meaningful commercial protection for our product, which could enable third parties to use our technology, or very similar technology, and could impair our ability to compete in the market. We rely on patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws to limit the ability of others to compete with us using the same or similar technology in the United States and other countries. However, as described below, these laws afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights to the extent necessary to sustain any competitive advantage we may have. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting their proprietary rights abroad. These problems can be caused by the absence of rules and methods for defending intellectual property rights. We will be able to protect our technology from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that they are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. The patent positions of companies developing medical devices, including our patent position, generally are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions concerning the enforceability of such patents against alleged infringement. Recent judicial decisions have established new case law and a reinterpretation of previous patent case law, and consequently we cannot assure you that historical legal standards surrounding the questions of infringement and validity will be applied in future cases. In addition, legislation may be pending in United States Congress that, if enacted in its present form, may limit the ability of medical device manufacturers in the future to obtain patents on surgical and medical procedures that are not performed by, or as a part of, devices or compositions that are themselves patentable. Our ability to protect our proprietary methods and procedures may be compromised by the enactment of this legislation or any other limitation or reduction in the patentability of medical and surgical methods and procedures. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may therefore diminish the value of our intellectual property. We own, or control through licenses, a variety of issued patents and pending patent applications. However, the patents on which we rely may be challenged and invalidated, and our patent applications may not result in issued patents. Moreover, our patents and patent applications may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products. We also face the risk that others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies. 25 We have taken security measures to protect our proprietary information, especially proprietary information that is not covered by patents or patent applications. These measures, however, may not provide adequate protection of our trade secrets or other proprietary information. We seek to protect our proprietary information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, collaborators and consultants. Nevertheless, employees, collaborators or consultants could still disclose our proprietary information and we may not be able to protect our trade secrets in a meaningful way. If we lose any employees, we may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or other trade secrets by those former employees despite the existence of a nondisclosure and confidentiality agreement and other contractual restrictions designed and intended to protect our proprietary technology. In addition, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Our ability to compete effectively will depend substantially on our ability to develop and maintain proprietary aspects of our technology. Our issued patents, any future patents that may be issued as a result of our United States or foreign patent applications, or the patents under which we have license rights may not offer any degree of protection against competitive products. Any patents that may be issued or licensed to us or any of our patent applications could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented in the future. If we cannot operate our business without infringing third-party intellectual property rights, our prospects will suffer. Our success will depend in part on our ability to operate without infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. We may be exposed to future litigation by third parties based on claims that our product infringes the intellectual property rights of others. There are numerous issued patents in the medical device industry and, as described in the next risk factor, the validity and breadth of medical device patents involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. Our competitors may assert that our product and the methods we employ may be covered by United States or foreign patents held by them. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending patent applications of which we are unaware that may later result in issued patents that our product may infringe. There could also be existing patents of which we are unaware that our product may inadvertently infringe. If we lose a patent infringement lawsuit, we could be prevented from selling our product unless we can obtain a license to use technology or ideas covered by that patent or are able to redesign the product to avoid infringement. A license may not be available to us on terms acceptable to us, or at all, and we may not be able to redesign our product to avoid any infringement. If we are not successful in obtaining a license or redesigning our product, we may be unable to sell our product and our business would suffer. We have been, and may be in the future, a party to patent litigation, which could be expensive and divert our management’s attention. The medical device industry has been characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights, and companies in the industry have used intellectual property litigation to gain a competitive advantage. We may become a party to patent infringement claims and litigation or interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or PTO, to determine the priority of inventions. The defense and prosecution of these matters are both costly and time consuming. We may need to commence proceedings against others to enforce our patents, to protect our trade secrets or know-how or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. These proceedings would result in substantial expense to us and significant diversion of effort by our technical and management personnel. A third party, Ovion, Inc., Ovion, which is now a subsidiary of American Medical Systems, or AMS, brought to our attention a patent and certain claims from a pending patent application owned by it. Ovion 26 indicated that it believes that the claims of its patent and application cover the Essure system and its use. On October 23, 2003, we entered into a settlement agreement with Ovion pursuant to which we received a sole, worldwide license to Ovion’s patent rights relative to the Essure system, and Ovion may not grant any additional such licenses to other parties. The settlement agreement provided for the payment of a royalty to Ovion that will be equal to 3.25% of the cumulative net sales of the Essure system in excess of $75.0 million for a period of no longer than ten years. In addition, the settlement agreement provided for a cash payment of $2.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2003 as a prepaid royalty, and a license fee of $2.0 million payable in our common stock in equal installments in the first and second quarters of 2004. Ovion was not granted any rights to our intellectual property pursuant to the settlement agreement. The settlement agreement was approved by the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California on November 6, 2003. Although we have reached a settlement agreement with Ovion, we still believe that some or all of Ovion’s claims should be included within our own patents and we have requested that the PTO to declare an interference. An interference is a proceeding within the PTO to determine which party was the first to invent, and which party is thereby entitled to ownership of the claims. We believe that we filed our patent applications for the Essure system before Ovion filed the application that issued as its patent, and that we are entitled to any patentable claims now appearing in their patent that cover our product. We do not know whether the PTO will declare an interference, whether we invented our product prior to Ovion’s date of invention, or whether we will prevail in an interference proceeding if it is declared by the PTO. If the PTO declares an interference in our favor and we are found to have priority of invention, we may avoid having to pay Ovion future royalties on the sales of our product. An adverse determination in new litigation or interference proceedings to which we are or may become a party could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties or require us to seek licenses from third parties. Although patent and intellectual property disputes in the medical device area have often been settled through licensing or similar arrangements, costs associated with such arrangements may be substantial and could include ongoing royalties. We may be unable to obtain necessary licenses on satisfactory terms, if at all. Adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling the Essure system. One of the patents included in our license from Target Therapeutics, a division of Boston Scientific Corporation, has been the subject of reexamination proceedings in the PTO and an infringement lawsuit by Target Therapeutics. We are not a party to this lawsuit. The patent is directed to variable stiffness catheters for use with guidewires, as might be used in our future products. Although the PTO reaffirmed the patent with amended claims and the lawsuit was settled, the patent could be challenged or invalidated in the future. If this patent is invalidated, our ability to prevent others from using this proprietary technology would be compromised. Our future liquidity and capital requirements are uncertain. As we commercialize the Essure system on a wide scale basis, we may require additional financing and therefore may in the future seek to raise additional funds through bank facilities, debt or equity offerings or other sources of capital. Any additional equity financing may be dilutive to stockholders, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants and interest expenses that will affect our financial results. Additional funding may not be available when needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we are unable to obtain additional capital, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate our selling and marketing activities. Our future liquidity and capital requirements will depend upon many factors, including, among others: · the rate of product adoption by doctors and patients; · obtaining government and third-party reimbursement for the Essure procedure; 27 · the liquidity of private insurance systems, as well as the timeliness of payments of government management reimbursement systems; · our ability to improve our days sales outstanding; · the resources devoted to increasing manufacturing capacity to meet commercial demands; · our ability to reduce our cost of sales; · the resources devoted to developing and conducting sales and marketing and distribution programs; · the progress and cost of product development programs; and · the potential requirement to make royalty payments subject to the Ovion-Conceptus settlement agreement. The fluctuation of our quarterly results may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our revenues and results of operations have in the past and will likely vary in the future from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and any of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. The primary factors that may affect us include the following: · the extent to which the Essure system gains market acceptance; · the rate at which physicians are trained to perform the Essure procedure · the timing of sales of our products and services; · actions relating to reimbursement matters; · increases in sales and marketing, product development or administration expenses; · the rate at which we establish U.S. and international distribution or marketing partners and the degree of their success; · introduction of competitive products; and · costs related to acquisitions of technology or businesses You should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. It is likely that in some future quarters, our results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In this event, the price of our common stock may fall. Health care reform may limit our return on our product. The levels of revenue and profitability of medical device companies may be affected by the efforts of government and third party payers to contain or reduce the costs of health care through various means. In the United States, there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal, state and private proposals to control health care costs. These proposals may contain measures intended to control public and private spending on health care, as well as to provide universal public access to the health care system. If enacted, these proposals may result in a substantial restructuring of the health care delivery system. Significant changes in the health care system in the United States are likely to have a substantial impact over time on the manner in which we conduct our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 28 We may be exposed to product liability claims, and we have only limited insurance coverage. The manufacture and sale of medical products involve an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims and product recalls. We currently maintain product liability insurance with coverage limits of $10.0 million per occurrence and an annual aggregate maximum of $10.0 million, which we believe is comparable to that maintained by other companies of similar size serving similar markets. However, we cannot assure you that product liability claims in connection with clinical trials or commercial sales of the Essure system will not exceed such insurance coverage limits or that such insurance will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Insurance is expensive and in the future may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage, or a recall of our product, could cause our stock price to fall. We may not be able to attract and retain additional key management, sales and marketing and technical personnel or we may lose existing key management, sales and marketing or technical personnel, which may delay our development and marketing efforts. We depend on a number of key management, sales and marketing and technical personnel. The loss of the services of one or more key employees could delay the achievement of our development and marketing objectives. Our success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain additional highly qualified management, sales and marketing and technical personnel to meet our growth goals. We face intense competition for qualified personnel, many of whom are often subject to competing employment offers, and we do not know whether we will be able to attract and retain such personnel. We are required to recognize expense for stock-based compensation related to employee stock options and other share-based payment awards, and we cannot assure you that the expense that we are required to recognize measures accurately the value of our share-based payment awards, and the recognition of this expense could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Medical technology companies like ours have a history of using broad based employee stock option programs to hire, incentivize and retain our workforce in a competitive marketplace. Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R), “Share-Based Payment.” SFAS No. 123(R) established accounting for stock-based awards exchanged for employee services. Accordingly, stock-based compensation cost is measured at grant date, based on the fair value of the award which is computed using the Black-Scholes option valuation model, and is recognized as expense over the employee requisite service period. We previously applied Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,” and related Interpretations and provided the required pro forma disclosures of SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation.” The adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) had a significant impact on our consolidated statement of operations for 2006 as we were required to expense the fair value of our stock options rather than disclosing the impact on our consolidated result of operations within our footnotes in accordance with the disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 123. The application of SFAS 123(R) requires the use of an option pricing model to determine the fair value of share-based payment awards. This determination of fair value is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables. These variables include, but are not limited to, our expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, and actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors. Option pricing models were developed for use in estimating the value of traded options that have no vesting or hedging restrictions and are fully transferable. Because our employee stock options have certain characteristics that are significantly different from traded options, and because changes in the subjective assumptions can materially affect the estimated value, in management’s opinion the existing valuation models may not provide an accurate measure of the fair value of our employee stock options. Although the fair value of employee stock options is determined in accordance with SFAS 123(R) and Staff Accounting Bulletin 107 using the Black-Scholes 29 option-pricing model, that value may not be indicative of the fair value observed in a willing buyer/willing seller market transaction. As a result of the adoption of SFAS 123(R), beginning with fiscal 2006, our earnings were lower than they would have been had we not been required to adopt SFAS 123(R). This will continue to be the case for future periods. We cannot predict the effect that this adverse impact on our reported operating results will have on the trading price of our common stock. In addition, this could impact our ability to utilize broad based employee stock plans to reward employees and could result in a competitive disadvantage to us in the employee marketplace. Future changes in financial accounting standards or practices or existing taxation rules or practices may cause adverse unexpected revenue fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards or practices or a change in existing taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements and taxation practice have occurred and may occur in the future. In July 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes—an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109,” or FIN 48, which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income tax positions. This Interpretation requires that we recognize in our financial statements the impact of a tax position if that position is more likely than not of being sustained on audit, based on the technical merits of the position. The provisions of FIN 48 are effective on January 1, 2007, with the cumulative effect of the change in accounting principle, if any, recorded as an adjustment to opening retained earnings. We are currently evaluating the impact of adopting FIN 48 on our financial position, cash flows, and results of operations. Changes to existing rules, including the adoption of FIN 48, or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. Our 2.25% convertible senior notes present certain liquidity and other risks. In February 2007 we issued an aggregate principal amount of $86,250,000 of our 2.25% convertible senior notes due 2027. The net share settlement feature of the notes may reduce our liquidity. If the notes are convertible, then upon conversion, holders will receive cash and, if applicable, shares of our common stock based on an initial conversion rate, subject to adjustment, of 35.8616 shares per $1,000 principal amount of notes (which represents an initial conversion price of $27.89 per share), in certain circumstances. Because we must settle at least a portion of our conversion obligation in cash, the conversion of notes may significantly reduce our liquidity. On each of February 15, 2012, February 15, 2017 and February 15, 2022, holders of the notes may require us to purchase, for cash, all or a portion of their notes at 100% of their principal amount, plus any accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, that date. If a fundamental change occurs, holders of the notes may require us to repurchase, for cash, all or a portion of their notes. In addition, upon conversion of the notes, we must pay the principal return in cash. We may not have sufficient funds to pay the interest, purchase price, repurchase price or principal return when due. In addition, the terms of any borrowing agreements which we may enter into from time to time may require early repayment of borrowings under circumstances similar to those constituting a fundamental change. These agreements may also make our repurchase of notes, or the cash payment due upon conversion of the notes, an event of default under the agreements. If we fail to pay interest on the notes, to repurchase the notes or to pay the cash payment due upon conversion when required, we will be in default under the indenture for the notes. 30 As adjusted to include the sale of the notes our total consolidated long-term debt as of December 31, 2006 would have been approximately $86.25 million. In addition, the indenture for the notes will not restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences on our future operations, including: · making it more difficult for us to meet our payment and other obligations under the notes and our other outstanding debt; · resulting in an event of default if we fail to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in any debt agreements that we may have, which could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable; · reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industry in which we operate and the general economy; and · placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged. Provisions in our charter documents, Delaware law and the indenture for our 2.25% convertible senior notes due 2027 could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party, even if the acquisition would be favorable to you. Protections against unsolicited takeovers in our rights plan, charter and bylaws may reduce or eliminate our stockholders’ ability to resell their shares at a premium over market price. We have a stockholders rights plan which expires on February 27, 2012. Our rights plan may prevent an unsolicited change of control of our company. Our rights plan may adversely affect the market price of our common stock or the ability of stockholders to participate in a transaction in which they might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. In addition, the issuance of preferred stock or common stock upon exercise of rights issued under the plan could dilute the voting, liquidation and other economic rights of our stockholders and make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions relating to issuance of preferred stock, special meetings of stockholders and advance notification procedures for stockholder proposals that could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing an unsolicited change in the control of our company. Our charter provides for our board of directors to be divided into three classes of directors, serving staggered three-year terms. The classified board provision could have the effect of discouraging a third party from making a tender offer or attempting to obtain control of us. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years after the date that such stockholder became an interested stockholder, unless certain conditions are met. Section 203 may discourage, delay or prevent an acquisition of our company even at a price our stockholders may find attractive. If a “fundamental change” (as defined in the indenture for our 2.25% convertible senior notes due 2027 ) occurs, holders of the notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their notes. In the event of a “make-whole fundamental change,” we also may be required to increase the conversion rate applicable to the notes surrendered for conversion in connection with that make-whole fundamental change. In addition, the indenture for the notes prohibits us from engaging in certain mergers or acquisitions unless, among other things, the surviving entity assumes our obligations under the notes. These and other provisions, including the provisions of our charter documents and 31 Delaware law, could prevent or deter a third party from acquiring us even where the acquisition could be beneficial to our security holders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 