ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report before making an investment decision regarding our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results would likely suffer, possibly materially, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Our revenues and operating results depend on several variables and may fluctuate from period to period. Our revenues and operating results depend on several variables, which include, but are not limited to: • size, timing and volume of significant orders and shipments; • mix of products and services sold; • our ability to recognize revenue from large solution-based sales; • length of sales cycles and associated costs therewith; • timing and acceptance of new product introductions by us and our competitors; • competitive pressure on product pricing; • remedial costs and reputational harm associated with product defects or errors; • price discounts and sales promotions; • cost and proportion of third-party technology or components incorporated into or bundled with products sold; • reliance on third-party reseller and distribution channels; • changes in operating expenses; • seasonal factors, such as higher consumer demand at year-end; • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; and • price protections and provisions for inventory obsolescence extended to resellers and distributors. The occurrence and relationship of these variables may cause our revenues and operating results to fluctuate from period to period. As a result, period-to-period comparisons of our revenues and operating results may not provide a good indication of our future performance. We may have difficulty accurately forecasting quarterly revenues and operating results. We have in the past had, and may in the future have, difficulty accurately forecasting quarterly revenues and operating results due, in part, to a historically high concentration of sales activity near quarter-end. Our forecasting may be further complicated by the frequency in our Professional Video segment of large, solution-based sales opportunities that encompass multiple products and services. These types of sales opportunities often include long- term or phased implementation plans and customer acceptance frameworks that may delay, or make difficult to predict the timing of, revenue recognition. These types of sales also generally involve greater complexity than single 12 product or service sales, and this complexity may delay sales cycles more than anticipated. If any of our quarterly forecasts of revenues or operating results proves to be inaccurate, we may fail to meet the expectations of investors and securities analysts, and the market price of our common stock may decline. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and our competitors may be able to draw upon a greater depth and breadth of resources than those which are available to us. We operate in highly-competitive markets characterized by pressure to expand feature sets and functionality, accelerate new product releases and reduce prices. Some markets, such as Consumer Video and Audio, also have limited barriers to entry. Customers consider many factors when evaluating our products relative to those of our competitors, including reliability, performance, ease of use, feature sets, functionality, reputation, training and support, and we may not compare favorably against our competitors in all cases. Some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater brand recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and support resources than we do. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in market demand or devote greater resources to the development, marketing and sale of their products than we can. The superior resources of these competitors may also allow them to realize economies of scale or other cost-saving advantages that allow them to price their products aggressively relative to our products, in which case our product sales may decline and our revenues and operating results may suffer. Our success depends in part on our ability to adapt to dynamic market demand and continued customer acceptance of our products. The markets in which we operate are dynamic and rapidly evolving. We continuously develop new products, as well as selectively upgrade or enhance our existing products, in an attempt to capitalize on market trends. Any new or upgraded product may require months or years of development prior to its actual introduction and may involve substantial investments of resources. Development can be a complex and uncertain process, and we may experience design, manufacturing or other difficulties that delay or prevent the introduction of products or result in even greater resource outlays. Additionally, we may fail to predict market trends correctly, fall short of customer expectations, encounter product quality issues, or, particularly with respect to new markets, underestimate barriers to entry or encounter more experienced competition, in which case our new or upgraded product introductions may fail. New or upgraded product introductions may also have a negative impact on the market for our existing products. Recent and potential future acquisitions could be difficult to integrate, divert the attention of key personnel, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and impair our financial results. As part of our business strategy, we periodically acquire companies, technologies and products that we believe can improve our ability to compete in our existing markets or allow us to enter new markets. The potential risks associated with any acquisition include, but are not limited to: • difficulty in assimilating the operations, policies and personnel of the acquired company; • failure to realize anticipated returns on investment, cost savings and synergies; • possibility of incurring impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets; • unidentified issues not discovered in due diligence, which may include product quality issues or legal contingencies; • diversion of management’s time and attention; • potential dilution to existing stockholders, if we issue common stock or other equity rights in the acquisition; • potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; 13 • difficulty in complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, if so required; • impairment of relationships with customers or suppliers; and • possibility of contingent payments or earn-outs. Acquisitions often involve significant transaction-related costs, including potential hidden costs that we may not fully appreciate, and could cause disruption to our normal operations. In the future, in addition to acquisitions, we may also make debt or equity investments, and we may fail to realize anticipated returns on such investments. Our Professional Video customers are increasingly demanding comprehensive product and service solutions from single vendors, which we may be unable to provide or successfully implement. Our Professional Video customers are increasingly demanding comprehensive product and service solutions from single vendors, as opposed to discrete point product and service purchases from multiple vendors. This trend is being driven to a significant degree by media and broadcast organizations converting entire systems from analog, or tape-based, processes to digital formats. Our combined product and service solutions may not always be sufficiently compelling or comprehensive for our customers’ requirements, and we may need to augment our solutions with third-party products and services. Such third-party products and services may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. To the extent we are unable to provide our customers with compelling or comprehensive product and service solutions, we may be competitively disadvantaged and our revenues and operating results may decline. Additionally, if we are unable to achieve successful and timely implementation of these solutions, our industry reputation may be diminished and our ability to secure similar sales opportunities in the future may be impaired. The size and frequency of, and competition for, these types of sales may cause our revenues to become more variable from period to period, in which case we may fail to meet the expectations of investors and securities analysts, and the market price of our common stock may decline. To the extent we derive significant revenues from consumer markets, we may experience lower profit margins and greater revenue seasonality. As a result of recent acquisitions and new product initiatives, we derive significant revenues from sales to consumers of home video and audio products. The market for consumer video and audio products is highly competitive and changes rapidly, and we may not have sufficient skill or experience to continue to compete effectively. Additionally, competitive and consumer-driven pricing pressure may result in lower consumer profit margins which could lower our overall profit margins. Similarly, our revenues may exhibit greater seasonality because sales of consumer electronics typically increase in the latter half of the year. Our products may, from time to time, experience quality problems that could negatively impact our customer relationships, our market reputation and our operating results. We offer sophisticated and complex products. Our software products, as is typical of high-end software, generally include coding defects or errors, often referred to as "bugs," which in some cases may interfere with or impair a customer’s ability to operate or use the software. Similarly, our hardware products, from time to time, may include design or manufacturing defects that could cause them to malfunction. Although we employ various quality control measures, they may be inadequate, particularly if other business considerations, such as meeting target release-to-market dates, limit the amount of time or resources available to devote to such measures. We cannot be certain that we will be able to detect or remedy all such defects that may exist in our products. Any such defects could result in loss of customers or revenues, delays in revenue recognition, increased product returns, damage to our market reputation and significant warranty or other expense. 14 Competition for technical and management personnel is intense in our industry, and our business may suffer if we are unable to attract or retain key personnel. Our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain talented and dedicated personnel, including members of our management team and employees in key technical positions. Competition for managerial and technical talent in the markets and geographic areas in which we operate is intense and turnover rates can be high. Our compensation, incentive and development practices may be inadequate for purposes of retaining personnel or attracting needed talent. Additionally, companies with which we compete for talent may offer potential recruits a more dynamic work environment or greater opportunity to work with, or train on, cutting-edge technology than we are able to offer. In the past, we have relied on stock option grants as one mechanism for recruiting and retaining highly-skilled talent, however, a decline in the market price for our common stock may cause stock options that we have issued to be of little or no value. Additionally, changes in accounting rules that require us to expense stock options may limit our reliance on stock options as an incentive tool in the future. If we fail to provide adequate compensation and incentives, we may be unable to compete successfully for talented and dedicated employees and our business may suffer. A catastrophic event may significantly limit our ability to conduct business as normal. We operate a complex, geographically dispersed business, which includes a significant personnel and facilities presence in California near major earthquake fault lines. Disruption or failure of our networks or systems, or injury or damage to our personnel or physical infrastructure, caused by a natural disaster, public health crisis, terrorism, cyber attack, act of war or other catastrophic event may significantly limit our ability to conduct business as normal, including our ability to communicate and transact with our customers, suppliers, distributors and resellers, and negatively impact our revenues and operating results. The threat or occurrence of a catastrophic event may create additional economic and political uncertainties that could adversely affect our business and the markets in ways that cannot be predicted. We are predominantly uninsured for losses and disruptions caused by such catastrophic events, and we may not have a sufficiently comprehensive enterprise-wide disaster recovery plan in place. Our success depends in part on protecting our proprietary technology from third-party infringement and misappropriation. Our ability to compete successfully and achieve future revenue growth depends in part on our ability to protect our proprietary technology. Software piracy is an ongoing concern for us, but particularly with respect to our consumer products, where we have limited ability to track license usage and transfers. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology. We also design some of our products to include anti-piracy features, such as required hardware components or security keys. These legal and security practices may prove to be inadequate or subject to circumvention. Additionally, the laws of certain countries in which we operate may not protect our proprietary technology to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. The unauthorized use or copying of our proprietary technology results in lost revenue to our business, and enforcement actions or litigation that we may pursue to protect our technology may be costly and time-consuming. Our products may infringe third-party intellectual property rights. We occasionally receive communications alleging that our products infringe third-party intellectual property rights. Although our practice is to investigate the factual basis of such allegations and negotiate licenses where necessary, licenses may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all, in which case we may be required to expend considerable resources to develop a non-infringing alternative. Until we are able to develop an alternative, sales of our products may be delayed or suspended or we may be forced to distribute our products with reduced feature sets or functionality. We also may be liable to some of our customers, resellers and distributors for damages in connection with intellectual property claims relating to our products. If any of these risks were to occur, the potential harm to our business could be substantial. 15 Qualifying and supporting our products on multiple computer platforms is time consuming and expensive. We devote significant time and resources to qualify and support our software products on various computer platforms, including Microsoft and Apple operating systems. To the extent that any qualified and supported platform is modified or upgraded, or we need to qualify and support a new platform, we would be required to expend additional engineering time and resources, which may add significantly to our development expenses and adversely affect our operating results. Our use of independent contracting firms and subcontractors for certain product development and manufacturing activities may limit our control over such activities or expose us to other risks. From time to time, we engage independent contracting firms, some of which are located in foreign countries, to perform product development activities for us to complement or support our internal development efforts. We generally own the work product developed by such firms. We also rely on subcontractors, many of which are likewise located in foreign countries, for some of our procurement and manufacturing activities. Our reliance on third parties for development and manufacturing activities may, among other risks, reduce our control over delivery schedules, order lead times, product quality and component costs. Our revenues and operating results depend significantly on third-party reseller and distribution channels. We distribute many of our Professional Video products, and substantially all of our Audio and Consumer Video products, indirectly through third-party resellers and distributors. With respect to our Audio and Consumer Video products, relatively few resellers and distributors account for a significant portion of our revenues. The loss of one or more of these or other key resellers or distributors may significantly reduce our revenues. Increasingly, we are distributing our Professional Video broadcast products directly to customers, which could put us in competition with our resellers and distributors, which may adversely affect these relationships. Additionally, in response to this or similar direct sales strategies that we may undertake, or for other business reasons, resellers and distributors may choose to resell our competitors’ products in addition to, or in place of, ours. Resellers and distributors of our Audio and Consumer Video products typically have limited rights of return, as well as inventory stock rotation and price protection. Accordingly, reserves for estimated returns, exchanges and credits for price protection are recorded as a reduction of revenues upon product shipment, based upon our historical experience. To date, actual returns of our Audio and Consumer Video products have not differed materially from management’s estimates. To the extent returns of our Audio or Consumer Video products exceed such estimated levels, our revenues and operating results may be adversely impacted. We depend on the availability and proper functioning of certain third-party technology that we incorporate into or bundle with our products. We license third-party technology for incorporation into or bundling with our products. This technology may provide us with critical or strategic feature sets or functionality. The profit margin for each of our products depends in part on the royalty, license and purchase fees we pay in connection with third-party technology. To the extent we add additional third-party technology to our products and we are unable to offset associated costs, our profit margins may decline and our operating results may suffer. In addition to cost implications, third-party technology may include defects or errors that could adversely affect the performance of our products, which may harm our market reputation or adversely affect product sales. Third-party technology may also include open source software code that if used in combination with our own software may jeopardize our intellectual property rights. If any third-party technology license expires, is terminated or ceases to be available on commercially reasonable terms, we may be required to expend considerable resources integrating alternative technology or developing our own. In the interim, sales of our products may be delayed or suspended or we may be forced to distribute our products with reduced feature sets or functionality. Lengthy procurement lead times and unpredictable life cycles and customer demand for some of our products may result in significant inventory risks. With respect to many of our products, we must procure component parts and build finished inventory far in advance of product shipments. Certain of these products, particularly within our consumer markets, may have unpredictable 16 life cycles and encounter rapid technological obsolescence as a result of dynamic market conditions. We procure product components and build inventory based upon our forecasts of product life cycle and customer demand. If we are unable to provide accurate forecasts or manage our inventory levels in response to shifts in customer demand, we may have insufficient, excess or obsolete product inventory. Insufficient product inventory may impair our ability to fulfill product orders and negatively impact our revenues. For excess or obsolete inventory, we may need to record a write-down on products and components to their realizable value, which would negatively impact our results of operations. We purchase certain hardware components for our products from sole source suppliers. We depend on sole source suppliers for certain key hardware components of our products. We do not generally carry significant inventories of, and may not in all cases have guaranteed supply arrangements for, these hardware components. If any of our sole source suppliers cease, suspend or otherwise limit production or shipment of their hardware components, or adversely modify our terms or pricing structures, our ability to sell and service our own products may be impaired. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain these hardware components, or acceptable substitutes, from alternative sources or that we will be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms. We may also be required to expend significant development resources to redesign our products to work around the exclusion of any hardware component or accommodate the inclusion of any substitute hardware component, in which case our operating results may suffer. Our international operations expose us to significant exchange rate fluctuations and regulatory, intellectual property and other risks that may adversely affect our operating results. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from customers outside of the United States. Our international sales are, for the most part, transacted through foreign subsidiaries and generally in the currency of the end-user customers. Therefore, we are exposed to the risks that changes in foreign currency could adversely impact our revenues, operating results and cash flow. To hedge against the international exchange exposure of certain forecasted receivables, payables and cash balances of our foreign subsidiaries, we enter into foreign currency, forward-exchange contracts. The success of our hedging program depends on forecasts of transaction activity in the various currencies. To the extent that these forecasts are over- or understated during periods of currency volatility, we may experience currency gains or losses. Other risks inherent in our international operations relate to, among other things, environmental laws, regulatory practices, tax laws, trade restrictions and tariffs, as well as longer collection cycles for accounts receivable and greater difficulties in protecting our intellectual property. We are subject to risks associated with environmental regulatory compliance. Many of our products are subject to international, federal and state laws and regulations governing the presence of chemical substances in, and the proper recycling of, such products. Our product design and procurement operations are becoming increasingly complex as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the composition of our products, including restrictions under the Directive on the Restriction of Hazardous Substances, or the RoHS Directive, which applies, as of July 1, 2006, to products put on the market in the European Union, and similar legislation recently adopted or currently proposed in other jurisdictions, including China, Japan, Korea and various states within the United States. Our potential liability resulting from environmental legislation may be substantial and may have an adverse effect on our operating results. Changes in accounting rules could adversely affect our future operating results. Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These principles are subject to interpretation by various governing bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the Securities and Exchange Commission, which promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting regulations. Changes to current accounting regulations, as well as the judgments and methods we use to implement them, may have a significant effect on our reported financial results. For example, changes in the rules regarding accounting for stock-based compensation, which took effect on January 1, 2006, have had a negative effect on our reported operating expenses and earnings per share. 17 Our websites may subject us to legal claims that could harm our business. Some of our websites provide interactive information and services to our customers. To the extent that materials may be posted on or downloaded from our websites and distributed to others, we may be subject to claims for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, personal injury or other theories of liability based on the nature, content, publication or distribution of such materials. In addition, we may also be subject to claims for indemnification by end users in the event that the security of our websites is compromised. Our websites are available on a worldwide basis and may potentially be subject to a wide variety of international laws. The potential impact of these risks on our business could be substantial. If we experience problems with our third-party leasing program, our revenues may be adversely impacted. We have an established leasing program with a third party that allows qualified customers to finance purchases of our products. If this program ended abruptly or unexpectedly, some customers would likely be unable to purchase our products unless or until they were able to arrange for alternative financing. To the extent such customers were precluded from, or delayed in, making product purchases, our revenues may decline. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock has experienced volatility in the past and may continue to fluctuate substantially in the future in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to: • period-to-period variations in our revenues or operating results; • our failure to accurately forecast quarterly or annual revenues or operating results; • shortfalls in our revenues or earnings compared to expectations; • changes in investors’ perceptions of us or our competitors; • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, new products, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments; • shifts in markets or demand for our products; • our ability to develop and market new or upgraded products on a timely basis; • changes in our relationships with suppliers, resellers, distributors or customers; • our commencement of, or our involvement in, litigation; • changes to our board of directors or management; • the volume of shares of our common stock available for public sale; • short sales, hedging or other derivative transactions involving shares of our common stock; • shifts in financial markets; 18 • changes in governmental regulations; and • global macroeconomic conditions. Additionally, broader financial market trends may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 