ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report before making an investment decision regarding our common stock. If any of the following risks were to actually occur, our business, financial condition or operating results would likely suffer, possibly materially, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Our success depends in significant part on our ability to provide innovative products and solutions in response to dynamic and rapidly evolving market demand. To succeed in our market, we must deliver innovative products and solutions. Innovation requires both that we accurately predict future market trends and customer expectations and that we possess the flexibility to quickly adapt our development efforts in response. Predicting market trends is difficult, as our market is dynamic and rapidly evolving. Additionally, given the complex, sophisticated nature of our solutions and our typically lengthy product development cycles, we may not be able to rapidly change our product direction or strategic course. If we are unable to accurately predict market trends or adapt to evolving market conditions, our ability to capture customer demand will suffer and our market reputation and financial performance will be negatively affected. Even to the extent we make accurate predictions and possess the requisite flexibility to adapt, we may be able to pursue only a handful of possible innovations as a result of limited resources. Our success, therefore, further depends on our ability to identify and focus on the most promising innovations. When we do introduce new products, our success depends on our ability to manage a number of risks associated with new products including but not limited to timely and successful product launch, market acceptance, and the availability of products in appropriate locations, quantities and costs to meet demand. If we fail to manage new product introductions and transitions properly, our financial condition and operating results could be harmed. The rapid evolution of the media industry is changing our customers’ needs, businesses and revenue models, and if we cannot anticipate or adapt quickly, our business will be harmed. The media industry has rapidly and dramatically transformed in the last five years and is continuing to do so as free content, minimal entry costs for creation and distribution, and the expansion of mobile devices have become prevalent. As a result, our traditional customers’ needs, businesses and revenue models are changing often in ways that deviate from our core strengths and traditional bases. If we cannot anticipate these changes or adapt to them quickly, our business will be harmed. For example, traditional advertising channels face competition from web and mobile platforms and diminished revenue from traditional advertising will cause some customers’ budgets for purchase of our solutions to decline; this may be particularly true among local television stations, which in the past have been an important customer segment for us. Additionally, our customers may also seek to pool or share facilities and resources with others in their industry and engage with providers of software as a service. Open platforms, online collaboration tools, software as a service, growing demand for an increasing array of mobile computing devices and the development of cloud-based computing are replacing the traditional software and hardware infrastructures and maintenance models and may reduce demand for some of our existing products and services. Additionally new or non-traditional competitors may arise or adapt in response to this evolution of the media industry, which could create downward price pressure on our products and solutions and reduce our market share and revenue opportunities. 9 The market segments in which we operate are highly competitive, and our competitors may be able to draw upon a greater depth and breadth of resources than those that are available to us. We operate in highly competitive market segments characterized by pressure to innovate, expand feature sets and functionality, accelerate new product releases and reduce prices. Markets for certain of our products also have limited barriers to entry. Customers consider many factors when evaluating our products relative to those of our competitors, including innovation, ease of use, feature sets, functionality, reliability, performance, reputation, and training and support, and we may not compare favorably against our competitors in all respects. Some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater brand recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and support resources than we do. As a result, they may be able to deliver greater innovation, respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in market demand, devote more resources to the development, marketing and sale of their products, successfully expand into emerging and other international markets, or price their products more aggressively than we can. There is an additional risk of consolidation among our competitors, which could result in fewer, more effective competitors. We also have the challenge of protecting our product roadmap and new product initiatives from leaks to competitors that might reduce or eliminate any innovative edge that we seek to gain. Our revenues and operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate from period to period. Our revenues and operating results may be materially affected by a number of factors, which include, but are not limited to: · timing and market acceptance of new product introductions by us and our competitors; · changes in customer demand for our products; · competitive pressure on product pricing; · changes in product, service or geographic mix; · the timing of large or enterprise-wide sales and our ability to recognize revenues from such sales; · length of sales cycles and associated costs; · global macroeconomic conditions; · fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; · reliance on third-party reseller and distribution channels; · cost of third-party technology or components incorporated into or bundled with products sold; · operational efficiency and effectiveness in a complex organization; · changes in operating expenses; · price protections and provisions for inventory obsolescence extended to resellers and distributors; · seasonal factors, such as higher consumer demand at year-end; · remedial costs and reputational harm associated with product defects or errors; and · complex accounting rules for revenue recognition. The occurrence and interaction of these variables may cause our revenues and operating results to fluctuate from period to period. As a result, period-to-period comparisons of our revenues and operating results may not provide a good indication of our future performance. 10 Our international operations expose us to additional legal, regulatory and other risks that we do not face in the United States. We derive more than half of our revenues from customers outside of the United States, rely on foreign contractors for the supply and manufacture of many of our products and conduct significant research and development activities overseas. Our international operations are subject to a variety of risks that we do not face in the United States, including: · the financial and administrative burdens associated with compliance with a myriad of environmental, tax and export laws, as well as other business regulations in foreign jurisdictions, including high compliance costs, inconsistencies among jurisdictions, and a lack of administrative or judicial interpretative guidance; · reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; · fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; · longer collection cycles for accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in enforcing contracts; · difficulties in managing and staffing international implementations and operations; · potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value added or other tax systems and restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; · increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; · costs and delays associated with developing products in multiple languages; and · economic, social and political instability abroad and international security concerns in general. Our overall success in international markets depends, in part, on our ability to succeed in differing legal, regulatory, economic, social and political conditions. We may not be successful in developing, implementing or maintaining policies and strategies that will be effective in managing these risks in each country where we do business. Our failure to manage these risks successfully could harm our international operations, reduce our international sales and increase our costs, thus adversely affecting our business, operating results and financial condition. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates may result in short-term currency exchange losses and could adversely affect our revenues from foreign markets and our manufacturing costs in the long term. Our international sales are, for the most part, transacted through foreign subsidiaries and generally in the currency of the end-user customers. Consequently, we are exposed to short-term currency exchange risks that may adversely affect our revenues, operating results and cash flows. The majority of our international sales are transacted in euros and to hedge against the dollar/euro exchange exposure of the resulting forecasted receivables, cash balances and revenues, we commonly enter into foreign currency forward-exchange contracts. The success of our hedging programs depends on the accuracy of our forecasts of transaction activity in euros. To the extent that these forecasts are over- or understated during periods of currency volatility, we may experience currency gains or losses. Our hedging activities may only offset a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable movement in dollar/euro exchange rates, which could adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. Furthermore, the significance to our business of sales in Europe subjects us to risks associated with long-term changes in the dollar/euro exchange rate. A sustained strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the euro would decrease our expected future U.S. dollar revenue from European sales and could have a significant adverse effect on our overall profit margins. During 2010, economic instability in Europe, including concern over sovereign debt in Greece, Ireland and certain other European Union countries, caused significant fluctuations in the value of the euro relative to those of other currencies, including the U.S. dollar. Continuing uncertainty regarding economic conditions, including the solvency of these countries and the stability of the eurozone, could lead to significant long-term economic weakness and reduced economic growth in Europe, the occurrence of which, or the potential occurrence of which, could lead to a sustained strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the euro, adversely affecting the profitability of our European operations. 11 In addition, we source and manufacture many of our products in China and our costs may increase should the renminbi not remain stable with the U.S. dollar. Although the renminbi is pegged against a basket of currencies determined by the People’s Bank of China, the renminbi may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the long term. In addition, if China were to permit the renminbi to float to a free market rate of exchange, it is widely anticipated that the renminbi would appreciate significantly in value against U.S. dollar. An increase in the value of the renminbi against the U.S. dollar would have the effect of increasing the labor and production costs of our Chinese manufacturers in U.S. dollar terms, which may result in their passing such costs to us in the form of increased pricing, which would adversely affect our profit margins if we could not pass those price increases along to our customers. Economic weakness and uncertainty could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin and expenses. Our revenue and gross margin depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and the demand for our products and services in the markets in which we compete. Economic weakness and uncertainty have resulted, and may result in the future, in decreased revenue, gross margin, earnings or growth rates and difficulty managing inventory levels. Sustained uncertainty about global economic conditions may adversely affect demand for our products and services and could cause demand to differ materially from our expectations. Economic weakness and uncertainty also make it more difficult for us to make accurate forecasts of revenue, gross margin and expenses. The inability of customers to obtain credit in the future may impair their ability to make timely payments to us. Tightening of credit by financial institutions could also lead customers to postpone spending or to cancel, decrease or delay their existing or future orders with us. Customer insolvencies could negatively impact our revenues and our ability to collect receivables. Financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers or distributors could result in product delays, increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges. Since we are unable to predict the pace and scope of the global economic recovery and whether economic conditions could deteriorate again, we may record additional charges relating to restructuring costs or the impairment of assets and our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We have incurred net losses in each of our three most recently completed fiscal years and we may continue to incur net losses in future periods. We have incurred, on the basis of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, net losses in each of the past three fiscal years: $37.0 million in 2010, $68.4 million in 2009, and $198.2 million in 2008. These losses, among other things, adversely affect our stockholders’ equity and working capital. These losses, and the principal factors or components underlying them, are discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 of this annual report. We cannot be certain when, or if, our operations will return to profitability or, if we do return to profitability whether it can be sustained. Potential acquisitions could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or impair our financial results. As part of our business strategy, we periodically acquire companies, technologies and products that we believe can improve our ability to compete in our existing customer market segments or will allow us to enter new markets. The potential risks associated with any acquisition include, but are not limited to: · failure to realize anticipated returns on investment, cost savings and synergies; · difficulty in assimilating the operations, policies and personnel of the acquired company; · combining product offerings and entering into new markets in which we may not have experience; · distraction of management’s attention from normal business operations; · potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; 12 · difficulty implementing effective internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures; · impairment of relationships with customers or suppliers; · possibility of incurring impairment losses related to goodwill and other intangible assets; and · unidentified issues not discovered in due diligence, which may include product quality issues or legal or other contingencies. In order to complete an acquisition, we may issue common stock, potentially creating dilution for existing stockholders. We may borrow to finance an acquisition, and the amount and terms of any potential future acquisition-related borrowings, as well as other factors, could affect our liquidity and financial condition and potentially our credit ratings. In addition, our effective tax rate on an ongoing basis is uncertain, and business combinations and investment transactions could impact our effective tax rate. We may experience risks relating to the challenges and costs of closing a business combination or investment transaction and the risk that an announced business combination or investment transaction may not close. As a result, any completed, pending or future transactions may contribute to financial results that differ from the investment community's expectations in a given quarter. Our success depends in part on our ability to retain competent and skilled management and technical, sales and other personnel. We are highly dependent upon the continued service and performance of our management team and key technical, sales and other personnel and our success will depend in part upon our ability to retain these employees in a competitive job market. We rely on cash bonuses and equity awards as significant compensation and retention tools for key personnel. In addition to compensation, we seek to foster an innovative work culture to retain employees. We also rely on the attractiveness of developing technology for the film, television and music industries as a means of retention. However, we also face challenges in retaining our key personnel as we have undergone a significant business transformation over the last several years that has resulted in changes in management, employee turnover and resulting strain on our internal resources and personnel. Our competitors may in some instances be able to offer a more established or more dynamic work environment, higher compensation or more opportunities to work with cutting-edge technology than we can. If we are unable to retain our key personnel, we would be required to expend significant time and financial resources to identify and hire new qualified personnel, which might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. We obtain hardware product components and finished goods under sole-source supply arrangements, and any disruptions to these arrangements could jeopardize the manufacturing or distribution of certain of our hardware products. Although we generally prefer to establish multi-source supply arrangements for our hardware product components and finished goods, multi-source arrangements are not always possible or cost-effective. We consequently depend on sole-source suppliers for certain hardware product components and finished goods, including some critical items. We do not generally carry significant inventories of, and may not in all cases have guaranteed supply arrangements for these sole-sourced items. If any of our sole-source suppliers were to cease, suspend or otherwise limit production or shipment, or adversely modify supply terms or pricing, our ability to manufacture, distribute and service our products may be impaired and our business could be harmed. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain sole-sourced components or finished goods, or acceptable substitutes, from alternative suppliers or that we will be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms. We may also be required to expend significant development resources to redesign our products to work around the exclusion of any sole-sourced component or accommodate the inclusion of any substitute component. 13 Our engagement of contractors for product development and manufacturing may reduce our control over those activities, provide uncertain cost savings and expose our proprietary assets to greater risk of misappropriation. We outsource a portion of our software development and our hardware design and manufacturing to contractors, both domestic and offshore. These relationships provide us with more flexible resource capabilities, access to global talent and cost savings, but also expose us to risks that may not exist or may be less pronounced with respect to our internal operations. We are able to exercise only limited oversight of our contractors, including with respect to their engineering and manufacturing processes, resource allocations, delivery schedules, security procedures and quality control. Language, cultural and time zone differences complicate effective management of contractors that are located offshore. Additionally, competition for talent in certain locations may lead to high turnover rates that disrupt development or manufacturing continuity. Pricing terms offered by contractors may be highly variable over time reflecting, among other things, order volume, local inflation and exchange rates. Some of our contractor relationships are based in contract, while others operate on a purchase order basis, where we do not have the benefit of written protections with respect to pricing or other critical terms. Many of our contractors require access to our intellectual property and confidential information to perform their services. Protection of these assets in relevant offshore locations may be less robust than in the United States. We must rely on policies and procedures we have instituted with our contractors and certain confidentiality and contractual provisions in our written agreements, to the extent they exist, for protection. These safeguards may be inadequate to prevent breaches. If a breach were to occur, available legal or other remedies may be limited or otherwise insufficient to compensate us for any resulting damages. Certain of our contractor relationships involve complex and mission-critical dependencies. If any of the preceding risks were to occur, we might not be able to rapidly wind down these relationships or quickly transition to alternative providers. We depend on the availability and proper functioning of certain third-party technology that we incorporate into or bundle with our products. We license third-party technology for incorporation into or bundling with our products. This technology may provide us with critical or strategic feature sets or functionality. The profit margin for each of our products depends in part on the royalty, license and purchase fees we pay in connection with third-party technology. To the extent we add additional third-party technology to our products and we are unable to offset associated costs, our profit margins may decline and our operating results may suffer. In addition to cost implications, third-party technology may include defects or errors that could adversely affect the performance of our products, which may harm our market reputation or adversely affect our product sales. Third-party technology may also include certain open source software code that if used in combination with our own software may jeopardize our intellectual property rights or limit our ability to sell through certain sales channels. If any third-party technology license expires, is terminated or ceases to be available on commercially reasonable terms, we may be required to expend considerable resources integrating alternative third-party technology or developing our own substitute technology. In the interim, sales of our products may be delayed or suspended or we may be forced to distribute our products with reduced feature sets or functionality. Lengthy procurement lead times and unpredictable life cycles and customer demand for some of our products may result in significant inventory risks. With respect to many of our products, we must procure component parts and build finished inventory far in advance of product shipments. Certain of these products may have unpredictable life cycles and encounter rapid technological obsolescence as a result of dynamic market conditions. We procure product components and build inventory based upon our forecasts of product life cycle and customer demand. If we are unable to accurately forecast product life cycle and customer demand or unable to manage our inventory levels in response to shifts in customer demand, the result may be insufficient, excess or obsolete product inventory. Insufficient product inventory may impair our ability to fulfill product orders and negatively affect our revenues, while excess or obsolete inventory may require a write-down on products and components to their net realizable value, which would negatively affect our results of operations. 14 Our revenues and operating results depend significantly on our third-party reseller and distribution channels. We distribute many of our products indirectly through third-party resellers and distributors. We also distribute products directly to end-user customers. Successfully managing the interaction of our direct and indirect channel efforts to reach various potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process. For example, in response to our direct sales strategies or for other business reasons, our current resellers and distributors may from time to time choose to resell our competitors’ products in addition to, or in place of, ours. Moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and gross margins, our failure to identify and implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins and therefore our profitability. In addition, some of our resellers and distributors have limited rights of return, as well as inventory stock rotation and price protection. Accordingly, reserves for estimated returns and exchanges, and credits for price protection, are recorded as a reduction of revenues upon applicable product shipment, and are based upon our historical experience. To date, actual returns of relevant products have not differed materially from our management’s estimates. However, our reliance upon indirect distribution methods may reduce visibility to demand and pricing issues, and therefore make forecasting more difficult and to the extent that returns exceed estimates, our revenues and operating results may be adversely affected. Our intellectual property and trade secrets are valuable assets that may be subject to third-party infringement and misappropriation. As a technology company, our intellectual property and trade secrets are among our most valuable assets. Infringement or misappropriation of these assets results in lost revenues to us and thereby ultimately reduces their value. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions and anti-piracy technology in certain of our products to protect our intellectual property and trade secrets. Most of these tools require vigilant monitoring of competitor and other third-party activities and of end-user usage of our products to be effective. These tools may not provide adequate protection in all instances, may be subject to circumvention, or may require a vigilance that in some cases exceeds our capabilities or resources. Additionally, our business model is increasingly focused on software products and as we offer more software products our revenues may be more vulnerable to loss through piracy. The legal regimes of certain countries in which we operate may not protect our intellectual property or trade secrets to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Regardless of jurisdiction, assuming legal protection exists and infringement or misappropriation is detected, any enforcement action that we may pursue could be costly and time-consuming, the outcome will be uncertain, and the alleged offender in some cases may seek to have our intellectual property rights invalidated. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property and trade secrets, our business could be harmed. Our future results could be materially adversely affected if we are accused of or found to be infringing third parties’ intellectual property rights. Because of technological change in our industry, extensive and sometimes uncertain patent coverage, and the rapid issuance of new patents, it is possible that certain of our products or business methods may inadvertently infringe the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. Third parties contact us or our customers from time to time alleging that our products infringe their intellectual property rights. Allegations from opportunistic patent owners often lack merit and are undertaken with the goal of inducing the alleged infringer into a quick settlement. Our general practice is to mount a vigorous defense against any claim that we believe lacks merit and eschew a quick settlement. This practice may cause us to incur significant legal defense costs that could have a negative impact on our operating results. With respect to legitimate allegations, we may negotiate licenses to the patented inventions as appropriate, which may include back-royalties to compensate for past use or distribution of the patented invention. Additional royalties will increase our cost-of-goods-sold and reduce our operating results. To the extent licenses are not available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all, we may be required to expend considerable time and resources to develop a non-infringing alternative. In the interim, sales of our products may be delayed or suspended or we may be forced to distribute our products with reduced feature sets or functionality. In addition to allegations made directly against us, in some cases we have indemnification obligations with respect to claims of infringement made against our customers and other related parties. A broadly targeted claim of infringement made against our customers or other related parties may result in significant costs for us. 15 Future debt obligations may adversely affect our cash flow and restrict our investment opportunities. In October 2010, we entered into a four-year asset-backed revolving credit facility in the aggregate principal amount of up to $60 million. Any future indebtedness we incur under the facility could have negative consequences, including, increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; limiting our ability to complete a merger or an acquisition; and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business. Our ability to satisfy our obligations under our credit agreement will depend on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flows to meet these obligations or to successfully execute our business strategy. If we are unable to service our debt and fund our business, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures or research and development expenditures, seek additional financing or equity capital, restructure or refinance our debt, or sell assets. Restrictions in our credit agreement may limit our activities. The credit agreement for our revolving credit facility contains restrictive covenants which limit our ability to engage in activities that could otherwise benefit us, including limitations on our ability to make investments, incur additional indebtedness, issue equity and create liens. We are also required to meet specified liquidity-based financial covenants under the terms of the credit agreement. Failure to comply with any of these restrictions or covenants may result in an event of default under the credit agreement, which could permit acceleration of any outstanding debt we may have in the future and require us to repay the debt before its scheduled due date. If an event of default were to occur, we might not have sufficient funds available to make the payments required. If we are unable to repay amounts owed, our lenders may be entitled to foreclose on and sell substantially all of our assets, which we have used to secure our borrowings under the credit agreement. Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions, the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our profitability. We are subject to income and other taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our tax liabilities are affected by the amounts we charge for inventory, services, licenses and other items in intercompany transactions. We are also subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with our intercompany charges, cross-jurisdictional transfer pricing or other matters and assess additional taxes. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid upon the resolution of an audit could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax expense and therefore could have a material impact on our tax provision, net income and cash flows. In addition, our tax provision in the future could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process. Failure of our information systems or breaches of data security could impact our business. Our systems and processes involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data, including personal information of employees, customers and others. In addition, we rely on information systems controlled by third parties. System failures, network disruptions and breaches of data security could impede development, manufacture or shipment of products, interrupt or delay processing of transactions and reporting financial results or result in the unintentional disclosure of proprietary, sensitive or confidential information. Such system failures or unauthorized access could be caused by external theft or attack, misconduct by our employees, contractors, or vendors, or other causes such as earthquake, fire or other natural disasters. Such system failures or unauthorized access could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, resulting in litigation and potential liability for us, as well as the loss of existing or potential customers and damage to our brand and reputation. In addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant. 16 Our products may experience quality issues that could negatively impact our customer relationships, our market reputation and our operating results. Our software products, as is typical of sophisticated, complex software, occasionally include coding defects or errors (commonly referred to as “bugs”), which in some cases may interfere with or impair a customer’s ability to operate or use the software. Similarly, our hardware products could include design or manufacturing defects that could cause them to malfunction. Although we employ quality control measures, those measures are not designed or intended to detect and remedy all defects. The time and resources available to devote to quality control measures are, in part, dependent on other business considerations, such as meeting customer expectations with respect to release schedules. Any product defects could result in loss of customers or revenues, delays in revenue recognition, increased product returns, damage to our market reputation and significant warranty or other expense and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. A catastrophic event may significantly limit our ability to conduct business as normal and harm our business. We operate a complex, geographically dispersed business, which includes a significant personnel and facilities presence in California near major earthquake fault lines. Our enterprise-wide disaster recovery plan may not be sufficient to protect us if a catastrophic event occurs and we are predominantly uninsured for business continuity losses and disruptions caused by catastrophic events. Disruption or failure of our networks or systems, or injury or damage to our personnel or physical infrastructure, caused by a natural disaster, public health crisis, terrorism, cyber attack, act of war or other catastrophic event may significantly limit our ability to conduct business as normal, including our ability to communicate and transact with our customers, suppliers, distributors and resellers, and negatively affect our revenues and operating results. Additionally, a catastrophic event could cause us to suspend all or a portion of our operations for a significant period of time, result in a permanent loss of resources, and require the relocation of personnel and materiel to alternate facilities that may not be available or adequate. A prolonged disruption of our business could also damage our reputation, particularly among our global news organization customers who are likely to require our solutions and support during such time. Any of these factors could cause a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. Our global brand alignment effort could affect customer acceptance of certain rebranded products, thereby impacting our future success. We have undergone an effort to achieve global brand alignment which poses risks of both business disruption and customer acceptance as we migrate brands. While much of this effort has taken place, several product lines have yet to be rebranded. Our customer outreach and similar efforts may not mitigate fully the risks of our branding efforts, which may lead to reductions in revenues in some markets, which may adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations, and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. Qualifying and supporting our products on multiple computer platforms is time-consuming and expensive. Hardware and operating systems change rapidly in our industry, and changes made by our suppliers can adversely affect the operation of our products. We devote significant time and resources to support state of the art computer platforms. These efforts may add significantly to our development expenses and adversely affect our operating results. Failure to achieve qualification on a timely basis may additionally adversely affect our operating results. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock has experienced volatility in the past and may continue to fluctuate substantially in the future in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to: · period-to-period variations in our revenues or operating results; · market reaction to significant corporate initiatives or announcements; · our ability to innovate; 17 · our relative competitive position within our markets; · shifts in markets or demand for our solutions; · changes in our relationships with suppliers, resellers, distributors or customers; · our failure to accurately forecast revenues or operating results; · our commencement of, or involvement in, litigation; · short sales, hedging or other derivative transactions involving shares of our common stock; and · shifts in financial markets. Additionally, broader financial market and global economic trends may affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 