ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report before making an investment decision regarding our common stock. If any of the following risks were to actually occur, our business, financial condition or operating results would likely suffer, possibly materially, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Our recent efforts to transform our business may not yield the intended results of improved financial performance and increased returns for our stockholders. In 2008, we undertook a significant transformation of our business that included, among other things, establishing a new management team, developing a new corporate strategy, reorganizing our internal structure, improving operational efficiencies, divesting non-core product lines and reducing the size of our workforce. Although the majority of our transformation activities are complete, the effects of the transformation are yet to be determined. While we undertook these activities with the goals of improving our financial performance and creating greater returns for our stockholders, they may be misdirected and insufficient or ill-timed, and we cannot be certain that they will yield the intended results. The success of our transformation efforts will depend, in part, on the following: • the extent to which our management team has properly understood the dynamics and demands of our market in crafting the transformation; • our management team’s ability to execute our new corporate strategy; • customer acceptance of our new corporate strategy and other changes to our business; • our employees’ ability to adapt to our new corporate strategy and organizational structure; • our ability to maintain any efficiency gains for the long-term; and • global macroeconomic conditions. Our success depends in significant part on our ability to provide innovative solutions in response to dynamic and rapidly evolving market demand. To succeed in our market, we must deliver innovation. Innovation requires both that we accurately predict future market trends and customer expectations and that we possess the flexibility and nimbleness to quickly adapt our product roadmap and development efforts in response. Predicting market trends may be difficult to the extent our market is dynamic and rapidly evolving. Additionally, given the complex, sophisticated nature of our solutions and our typically lengthy product development cycles, we may not be able to rapidly change our product direction or strategic course. If we are unable to accurately predict market trends or adapt to evolving market conditions, our ability to innovate and capture customer demand will suffer and our financial performance and market reputation will be negatively affected. Even to the extent we make accurate predictions and possess the requisite flexibility to adapt, we may be able to pursue only a handful of possible innovations as a result of limited research and development resources. Our success, therefore, further depends on our ability to identify and focus on only the most promising innovations. We additionally have the challenge of protecting our product roadmap and new product initiatives from leaks to competitors that might reduce or eliminate any innovative edge that we seek to gain. Our revenues and operating results depend on several variables and may fluctuate from period to period. Our revenues and operating results depend on several variables, which include, but are not limited to: • timing and acceptance of new product introductions by us and our competitors; • competitive pressure on product pricing; 9 • mix of products and services sold; • our ability to recognize revenues from large or enterprise-wide sales; • length of sales cycles and associated costs; • global macroeconomic conditions; • changes in operating expenses; • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • reliance on third-party reseller and distribution channels; • remedial costs and reputational harm associated with product defects or errors; • cost of third-party technology or components incorporated into or bundled with products sold; • seasonal factors, such as higher consumer demand at year-end; and • price protections and provisions for inventory obsolescence extended to resellers and distributors. The occurrence and interaction of these variables may cause our revenues and operating results to fluctuate from period to period. As a result, period-to-period comparisons of our revenues and operating results may not provide a good indication of our future performance. We expect the global economic downturn to continue to have a negative impact our business, although the magnitude of that impact is uncertain. We believe that the global economic downturn negatively affected our revenues and operating results in 2008. We expect that trend to continue in the future, although we are unable to predict the duration of the downturn or the magnitude of its impact on our business. To the extent our customers have been or expect to be negatively impacted by the economic downturn in their own businesses, we anticipate that they may delay or postpone purchases of our solutions. Of additional concern, certain of our professional customers rely on credit to finance purchases of our solutions, including through third-party leasing arrangements that we offer. Credit markets have generally tightened in recent months. To the extent credit is unavailable, even customers otherwise willing to proceed with purchases might be unable to do so unless or until they are able to arrange for alternative financing. Additionally, certain of our customers have become insolvent, and others may become so in the future. Even among our solvent customers, we have seen, and expect to continue to see, an increase in past-due accounts receivable. We may consequently be unable to maintain our historical collection rates, which would negatively affect our revenues, or, in some circumstances, we may have to consider extended or alternative payment arrangements, which could delay revenue recognition. We may also be affected to the extent the economic downturn negatively impacts our resellers and distributors. Our resellers and distributors have in some cases, and may in the future, reduce on-hand inventory of our products as a precaution. The downturn has also caused certain of our resellers and distributors, and may cause others, particularly in the retail sector, to seek bankruptcy protection. With respect to any reseller or distributor that enters bankruptcy, we may be unable to collect from that reseller or distributor monies due to us or arrange for the return of unsold inventory. The market segments in which we operate are highly competitive, and our competitors may be able to draw upon a greater depth and breadth of resources than those that are available to us. We operate in highly competitive market segments characterized by pressure to innovate, expand feature sets and functionality, accelerate new product releases and reduce prices. Markets for certain of our consumer products also have limited barriers to entry. Customers consider many factors when evaluating our products relative to those of our competitors, including innovation, ease of use, feature sets, functionality, reliability, performance, reputation, and training and support, and we may not compare favorably against our competitors in all respects. Some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater brand recognition and substantially greater financial, 10 technical, marketing, distribution and support resources than we do. As a result, they may be able to deliver greater innovation, respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in market demand, devote more resources to the development, marketing and sale of their products, or price their products more aggressively than we can. Our products may experience quality issues that could negatively impact our customer relationships, our market reputation and our operating results. Our software products, as is typical of sophisticated, complex software, generally include coding defects or errors (commonly referred to as “bugs”), which in some cases may interfere with or impair a customer’s ability to operate or use the software. Similarly, our hardware products may from time to time include design or manufacturing defects that could cause them to malfunction. Although we employ quality control measures, those measures are not designed or intended to detect and remedy all defects. The time and resources available to devote to quality control measures are, in part, dependent on other business considerations, such as meeting customer expectations with respect to release schedules. Any product defects could result in loss of customers or revenues, delays in revenue recognition, increased product returns, damage to our market reputation and significant warranty or other expense. We have incurred net losses in each of our three most recently completed fiscal years and we may continue to incur net losses in future periods We have incurred, on the basis of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, net losses in each of the past three fiscal years: $198.2 million in 2008, $8.0 million in 2007, and $42.9 million in 2006. These losses, among other things, adversely affect our stockholders’ equity and working capital. These losses, and the principal factors or components underlying them, are discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 of this annual report. Although, as discussed above, we have undertaken efforts to transform our operations, we cannot be certain when, or if, our operations will return to profitability. Our intellectual property and trade secrets are valuable assets that may be subject to third-party infringement and misappropriation. As a technology company, our intellectual property and trade secrets are among our most valuable assets. Infringement or misappropriation of these assets results in lost revenues to us and thereby ultimately reduces their value. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions and anti-piracy technology in certain of our products to protect our intellectual property and trade secrets. Most of these tools require vigilant monitoring of competitor and other third-party activities and of end-user usage of our products to be effective. These tools may not provide adequate protection in all instances, may be subject to circumvention, or may require a vigilance that in some cases exceeds our capabilities or resources. Additionally, the legal regimes of certain countries in which we operate may not protect our intellectual property or trade secrets to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Regardless of jurisdiction, assuming legal protection exists and infringement or misappropriation is detected, any enforcement action that we may pursue could be costly and time-consuming, the outcome may be uncertain, and the alleged offender in some cases may seek to have our intellectual property rights invalidated. Our engagement of independent contractors for product development and manufacturing may reduce our control over those activities, provide uncertain cost savings and expose our proprietary assets to greater risk of misappropriation. We outsource a portion of our software development and our hardware design and manufacturing to independent contractors, both domestic and offshore. These relationships provide us with more flexible resource capabilities, access to global talent and cost savings, but also expose us to risks that may not exist or may be less pronounced with respect to our internal operations. We are able to exercise only limited oversight of our contractors, including with respect to their engineering and manufacturing processes, resource allocations, delivery schedules and quality control. Language, cultural and time zone differences further complicate effective management of contractors that are located offshore. Additionally, competition for talent in certain offshore locations may lead to high turnover rates that disrupt development or manufacturing continuity. Pricing terms offered by certain contractors may be highly variable over time reflecting, among other things, order volume, local inflation and exchange rates. Certain of our contractor relationships 11 are based in contract, while others operate on a purchase order basis, where we do not have the benefit of written protections with respect to pricing or other critical supply terms. Many of our contractors require access to our intellectual property and confidential information to perform their services. Protection of these types of assets in relevant offshore locations is significantly less robust than in the United States. We must rely on policies and procedures we have instituted with our contractors and certain confidentiality and contractual provisions in our written agreements, to the extent they exist, for protection. Although these various safeguards provide reasonable assurance of protection, they may be inadequate to prevent breaches in all circumstances. If a breach were to occur, available legal or other remedies may be limited or otherwise insufficient to compensate us for any resulting damages. Certain of our contractor relationships involve complex and mission-critical dependencies. If any of the preceding risks were to occur, we might not be able to rapidly wind down these relationships or quickly transition to alternative providers. Lengthy procurement lead times and unpredictable life cycles and customer demand for some of our products may result in significant inventory risks. With respect to many of our products, we must procure component parts and build finished inventory far in advance of product shipments. Certain of these products may have unpredictable life cycles and encounter rapid technological obsolescence as a result of dynamic market conditions. We procure product components and build inventory based upon our forecasts of product life cycle and customer demand. If we are unable to provide accurate forecasts or manage our inventory levels in response to shifts in customer demand, the result may be insufficient, excess or obsolete product inventory. Insufficient product inventory may impair our ability to fulfill product orders and negatively affect our revenues, while excess or obsolete inventory may require a write-down on products and components to their realizable value, which would negatively affect our results of operations. We obtain certain hardware product components under sole-source supply arrangements, and any disruptions to these arrangements could jeopardize the manufacturing or distribution of certain of our hardware products. Although we generally prefer to establish multi-source supply arrangements for our hardware product components, multi-source arrangements are not always possible or cost-effective. We consequently depend on sole source suppliers for certain hardware product components, including some critical items. We do not generally carry significant inventories of, and may not in all cases have guaranteed supply arrangements for, these sole-sourced components. If any of our sole source suppliers were to cease, suspend or otherwise limit production or shipment of components, or adversely modify supply terms or pricing, our ability to manufacture, distribute and service our finished hardware products may be impaired. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain sole-sourced components, or acceptable substitutes, from alternative suppliers or that we will be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms. We may also be required to expend significant development resources to redesign our products to work around the exclusion of any sole-sourced component or accommodate the inclusion of any substitute component. We depend on the availability and proper functioning of certain third-party technology that we incorporate into or bundle with our products. We license third-party technology for incorporation into or bundling with our products. This technology may provide us with critical or strategic feature sets or functionality. The profit margin for each of our products depends in part on the royalty, license and purchase fees we pay in connection with third-party technology. To the extent we add additional third-party technology to our products and we are unable to offset associated costs, our profit margins may decline and our operating results may suffer. In addition to cost implications, third-party technology may include defects or errors that could adversely affect the performance of our products, which may harm our market reputation or adversely affect our product sales. Third-party technology may also include certain open source software code that if used in combination with our own software may jeopardize our intellectual property rights. If any third-party technology license expires, is terminated or ceases to be available on commercially reasonable terms, we may be required to expend considerable resources integrating alternative third-party technology or developing our own substitute technology. In the interim, sales of our products may be delayed or suspended or we may be forced to distribute our products with reduced feature sets or functionality. 12 Third parties have in the past, and may in the future, allege that our products infringe their intellectual property rights. Third parties contact us from time to time alleging that our products infringe their intellectual property rights. Allegations from opportunistic patent owners often lack merit and are undertaken with the goal of inducing the alleged infringer into a quick settlement to thereby spare the alleged infringer the nuisance and expense of legal discovery and a trial. Our general practice is to mount a vigorous defense against any claim that we believe lacks merit and eschew a quick settlement. This practice may cause us to incur significant legal defense costs that could have a negative impact on our operating results. With respect to non-frivolous allegations, our general practice is to negotiate licenses to the patented inventions as appropriate, which may include back-royalties to compensate for past use or distribution of the patented invention. Additional royalties will increase our cost-of-goods-sold and reduce our operating results. To the extent licenses are not available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all, we may be required to expend considerable time and resources to develop a non-infringing alternative. In the interim, sales of our products may be delayed or suspended or we may be forced to distribute our products with reduced feature sets or functionality. In addition to allegations made directly against us, in some cases we have indemnification obligations with respect to claims of infringement made against our customers and other related parties. A broadly targeted claim of infringement made against our customers or other related parties may result in significant defense costs for us. Qualifying and supporting our products on multiple computer platforms is time-consuming and expensive. We devote significant time and resources to qualify and support our software products on various computer platforms, including Microsoft and Apple operating systems. To the extent that any qualified and supported platform is modified or upgraded, or we need to qualify and support a new platform, we will be required to expend additional engineering time and resources, which will add significantly to our development expenses and adversely affect our operating results. Failure to achieve qualification on a timely basis may additionally adversely affect our operating results. Our international operations expose us to significant exchange rate fluctuations, as well as regulatory, intellectual property and other risks that may adversely affect our operating results. We derive more than half of our revenues from customers outside of the United States. Our international sales are, for the most part, transacted through foreign subsidiaries and generally in the currency of the end-user customers. We consequently are exposed to currency exchange risks that may adversely affect our revenues, operating results and cash flow. To hedge against the international exchange exposure of certain forecasted receivables, payables and cash balances of our foreign subsidiaries, we enter into foreign currency forward-exchange contracts. The success of our hedging program depends on the accuracy of our forecasts of transaction activity in the various currencies. To the extent that these forecasts are over- or understated during periods of currency volatility, we may experience currency gains or losses. In addition to exposing us to currency and exchange risks, our international operations require us to comply with myriad environmental, tax and export laws, as well as other business regulations. The risks associated with these laws and regulations may from time to time include, among other things, high compliance costs, rapid adoption requirements, inconsistencies among jurisdictions, and a lack of administrative or judicial interpretative guidance. We additionally tend to encounter in our international operations longer collection cycles for accounts receivable and, as discussed in a previous risk factor, greater difficulties in protecting our intellectual property. Our revenues and operating results depend significantly on our third-party reseller and distribution channels. We distribute many of our products indirectly through third-party resellers and distributors. In our consumer market segment, relatively few resellers and distributors account for a significant portion of our revenues. The loss of one or more of these or other key resellers or distributors may significantly reduce our revenues. To the extent we distribute our products directly to end-user customers, we may be in competition with our resellers and distributors. In response to our direct sales strategies or for other business reasons, our current resellers and distributors may from time to time choose to resell our competitors’ products in addition to, or in place of, ours. Certain of resellers and distributors have limited rights of return, as well as inventory stock rotation and price protection. Accordingly, reserves for estimated 13 returns, exchanges and credits for price protection are recorded as a reduction of revenues upon applicable product shipment, based upon our historical experience. To date, actual returns of relevant products have not differed materially from our management’s estimates. To the extent returns exceed estimates, our revenues and operating results may be adversely affected. Our success depends in part on our ability to retain competent and skilled management and technical personnel. As part of our recent transformation efforts, we established a new management team and restructured our internal organization. Although we believe that we have the competencies and skill sets necessary to succeed long term, our ability to do so will depend in part upon our ability to retain our management and technical personnel in job markets that can be quite competitive at times. We rely on cash bonuses and equity awards as significant compensation and retention tools for key personnel. The value of these bonuses and awards are typically tied to our financial performance or stock price. To the extent our financial performance or stock price declines, the value of these bonuses or awards, together with their usefulness as retention mechanisms, may be diminished or eliminated. In addition to compensation, we seek to foster an innovative work culture to retain employees. We also rely on the attractiveness of developing technology for the film, television and music industries as a means of retention. Nonetheless, our competitors may in some instances be able to offer a more dynamic work environment or more opportunities to work with cutting-edge technology. Potential acquisitions could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or impair our financial results. As part of our business strategy, we periodically acquire companies, technologies and products that we believe can improve our ability to compete in our existing customer market segments or will allow us to enter new markets. The potential risks associated with any acquisition include, but are not limited to: • failure to realize anticipated returns on investment, cost savings and synergies; • difficulty in assimilating the operations, policies and personnel of the acquired company; • potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; • impairment of relationships with customers or suppliers; • possibility of incurring impairment losses related to goodwill and other intangible assets; • unidentified issues not discovered in due diligence, which may include product quality issues or legal contingencies; and • potential dilution to existing stockholders if we issue common stock or other equity rights in the acquisition. A catastrophic event may significantly limit our ability to conduct business as normal. We operate a complex, geographically dispersed business, which includes a significant personnel and facilities presence in California near major earthquake fault lines. Disruption or failure of our networks or systems, or injury or damage to our personnel or physical infrastructure, caused by a natural disaster, public health crisis, terrorism, cyber attack, act of war or other catastrophic event may significantly limit our ability to conduct business as normal, including our ability to communicate and transact with our customers, suppliers, distributors and resellers, and negatively affect our revenues and operating results. The threat or occurrence of a catastrophic event may create additional economic and political uncertainties that could adversely affect our business and the markets in ways that cannot be predicted. We are predominantly uninsured for losses and disruptions caused by catastrophic events, and we may not have a sufficiently comprehensive enterprise-wide disaster recovery plan in place. 14 The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock has experienced volatility in the past and may continue to fluctuate substantially in the future in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to: • period-to-period variations in our revenues or operating results; • market reaction to significant corporate initiatives or announcements; • our ability to innovate; • our relative competitive position within our markets; • shifts in markets or demand for our solutions; • changes in our relationships with suppliers, resellers, distributors or customers; • our failure to accurately forecast revenues or operating results; • our commencement of, or involvement in, litigation; • short sales, hedging or other derivative transactions involving shares of our common stock; and • shifts in financial markets. Additionally, broader financial market and global economic trends may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 