ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report before making an investment decision regarding our common stock. If any of the following risks were to actually occur, our business, financial condition or operating results would likely suffer, possibly materially, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Our success depends in significant part on our ability to provide innovative solutions in response to dynamic and rapidly evolving market demand. To succeed in our market, we must deliver innovation. Innovation requires both that we accurately predict future market trends and customer expectations and that we possess the flexibility and nimbleness to quickly adapt our product roadmap and development efforts in response. Predicting market trends is difficult, as our market is dynamic and rapidly evolving. Additionally, given the complex, sophisticated nature of our solutions and our typically lengthy product development cycles, we may not be able to rapidly change our product direction or strategic course. If we are unable to accurately predict market trends or adapt to evolving market conditions, our ability to innovate and capture customer demand will suffer and our financial performance and market reputation will be negatively affected. Even to the extent we make accurate predictions and possess the requisite flexibility to adapt, we may be able to pursue only a handful of possible innovations as a result of limited resources. Our success, therefore, further depends on our ability to identify and focus on the most promising innovations. We additionally have the challenge of protecting our product roadmap and new product initiatives from leaks to competitors that might reduce or eliminate any innovative edge that we seek to gain. Our revenues and operating results depend on several variables and may fluctuate from period to period. Our revenues and operating results depend on several variables, which include, but are not limited to: · timing and market acceptance of new product introductions by us and our competitors; · competitive pressure on product pricing; · mix of products and services sold; · our ability to recognize revenues from large or enterprise-wide sales; · length of sales cycles and associated costs; · global macroeconomic conditions; · changes in operating expenses; · changes in foreign currency exchange rates; · reliance on third-party reseller and distribution channels; · remedial costs and reputational harm associated with product defects or errors; · cost of third-party technology or components incorporated into or bundled with products sold; · seasonal factors, such as higher consumer demand at year-end; and · price protections and provisions for inventory obsolescence extended to resellers and distributors. The occurrence and interaction of these variables may cause our revenues and operating results to fluctuate from period to period. As a result, period-to-period comparisons of our revenues and operating results may not provide a good indication of our future performance. 8 We expect the global economic downturn to continue to have a negative impact on our business, although the magnitude of that impact is uncertain. We believe that the global economic downturn negatively affected our revenues and operating results in 2009. Although we are unable to predict future economic conditions or the magnitude of the downturn’s impact on our business, global economic activity is expected to remain slow. To the extent our customers’ businesses have been or expect to be negatively impacted by the economic downturn, we anticipate that they may delay or postpone purchases of our solutions. Of additional concern, certain of our professional customers rely on credit to finance purchases of our solutions, including through third-party leasing arrangements that we offer. Credit markets remain constrained by historic standards; to the extent credit is unavailable, even customers otherwise willing to proceed with purchases might be unable to do so unless or until they are able to arrange for alternative financing. Additionally, certain of our customers have become insolvent, and others may become so in the future. To the extent our customers suffer from lack of liquidity or become insolvent, our sales cycles may lengthen and our accounts receivable collection rates may suffer, which would negatively affect our revenues, or, in some circumstances, we may have to consider extended or alternative payment arrangements, which could delay revenue recognition. We may also be affected to the extent the economic downturn continues to negatively impact our resellers and distributors. Our resellers and distributors have in some cases, and may in the future, reduce on-hand inventory of our products as a precaution. The downturn has also caused certain of our resellers and distributors, and may cause others, particularly in the retail sector, to seek bankruptcy protection. With respect to any reseller or distributor that enters bankruptcy, we may be unable to collect from that reseller or distributor monies due to us or arrange for the return of unsold inventory. As the media industry evolves, our customers’ needs, businesses and revenue models will change in ways that may deviate from our traditional strengths, making our existing products and solutions less relevant. The media content creation industry is rapidly transforming. Content distribution models and consumption habits have changed dramatically in just the last five years. With increasing amounts of free content and minimal entry costs for creation and distribution, our traditional customers’ industries and businesses are changing, and consequently their relationships with us may change significantly. Our business customers require vendors that can provide them with tools to help manage a growing number of media assets and distribution channels, while also reducing their costs. Our consumer customers increasingly look to participate in new ways in this media revolution. Our future success depends on our ability to develop products that effectively satisfy these demands. Our customers may also seek to pool or share facilities and resources with others in their industry and engage with providers of software as a service. Open platforms, online collaboration tools, and cloud computing are replacing the traditional business infrastructures and maintenance, which we currently provide to them. Traditional advertising channels face competition from web and mobile platforms. Diminished revenue from traditional advertising will cause some customers’ budgets for purchase of our solutions to decline; this may be particularly true among local television stations, which in the past have been an important customer segment for us. If we are unable to stay ahead of or adapt to the changes in our customers’ businesses, our future financial performance will suffer. The market segments in which we operate are highly competitive, and our competitors may be able to draw upon a greater depth and breadth of resources than those that are available to us. We operate in highly competitive market segments characterized by pressure to innovate, expand feature sets and functionality, accelerate new product releases and reduce prices. Markets for certain of our products also have limited barriers to entry. Customers consider many factors when evaluating our products relative to those of our competitors, including innovation, ease of use, feature sets, functionality, reliability, performance, reputation, and training and support, and we may not compare favorably against our competitors in all respects. Some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater brand recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and support resources than we do. As a result, they may be able to deliver greater innovation, respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in market demand, devote more resources to the development, marketing and sale of their products, or price their products more aggressively than we can. 9 Our efforts to transform our business may not yield the intended results of improved financial performance and increased returns for our stockholders. We are in the process of a significant transformation that began in 2008 and includes, among other things, a new corporate strategy, reorganization of our internal structure, the improvement of operational efficiencies and a reduction in the size of our workforce. Although the majority of our transformation activities are complete, the effects of the transformation are yet to be fully determined. While we undertook these activities with the goals of improving our financial performance and creating greater returns for our stockholders, they may ultimately prove to be misdirected and insufficient or ill-timed, and we cannot be certain that they will yield the intended results. Our engagement of contractors for product development and manufacturing may reduce our control over those activities, provide uncertain cost savings and expose our proprietary assets to greater risk of misappropriation. We outsource a portion of our software development and our hardware design and manufacturing to contractors, both domestic and offshore. These relationships provide us with more flexible resource capabilities, access to global talent and cost savings, but also expose us to risks that may not exist or may be less pronounced with respect to our internal operations. We are able to exercise only limited oversight of our contractors, including with respect to their engineering and manufacturing processes, resource allocations, delivery schedules, security procedures and quality control. Language, cultural and time zone differences further complicate effective management of contractors that are located offshore. Additionally, competition for talent in certain locations may lead to high turnover rates that disrupt development or manufacturing continuity. Pricing terms offered by certain contractors may be highly variable over time reflecting, among other things, order volume, local inflation and exchange rates. Some of our contractor relationships are based in contract, while others operate on a purchase order basis, where we do not have the benefit of written protections with respect to pricing or other critical terms. Many of our contractors require access to our intellectual property and confidential information to perform their services. Protection of these assets in relevant offshore locations is significantly less robust than in the United States. We must rely on policies and procedures we have instituted with our contractors and certain confidentiality and contractual provisions in our written agreements, to the extent they exist, for protection. Although these various safeguards provide reasonable assurance of protection, they may be inadequate to prevent breaches in all circumstances. If a breach were to occur, available legal or other remedies may be limited or otherwise insufficient to compensate us for any resulting damages. Certain of our contractor relationships involve complex and mission-critical dependencies. If any of the preceding risks were to occur, we might not be able to rapidly wind down these relationships or quickly transition to alternative providers. We have incurred net losses in each of our three most recently completed fiscal years and we may continue to incur net losses in future periods. We have incurred, on the basis of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, net losses in each of the past three fiscal years: $68.4 million in 2009, $198.2 million in 2008, and $8.0 million in 2007. These losses, among other things, adversely affect our stockholders’ equity and working capital. These losses, and the principal factors or components underlying them, are discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 of this annual report. Although, as discussed above, we have undertaken efforts to transform our operations, we cannot be certain when, or if, our operations will return to profitability. Our success depends in part on our ability to retain competent and skilled management and technical personnel. As part of our recent and ongoing transformation efforts, we have established a new management team and continue to restructure our internal organization. Although we believe that we have the competencies and skill sets necessary to succeed long term, our ability to do so will depend in part upon our ability to retain our management and technical personnel in competitive job markets. We rely on cash bonuses and equity awards as significant compensation and retention tools for key personnel. The value of these bonuses and awards are typically tied to our financial performance or stock price. To the extent our financial performance or stock price declines, the value of these bonuses or awards, together with their usefulness as retention mechanisms, may be diminished or eliminated. In addition to compensation, we seek to foster an innovative work culture to retain employees. We also rely on the attractiveness of developing technology for the film, television and music industries as a means of retention. Nonetheless, our competitors may in some instances be able to offer a more dynamic work environment or more opportunities to work with cutting-edge technology. 10 Potential acquisitions could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or impair our financial results. As part of our business strategy, we periodically acquire companies, technologies and products that we believe can improve our ability to compete in our existing customer market segments or will allow us to enter new markets. The potential risks associated with any acquisition include, but are not limited to: · failure to realize anticipated returns on investment, cost savings and synergies; · difficulty in assimilating the operations, policies and personnel of the acquired company; · distraction of management’s attention from normal business operations; · potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; · impairment of relationships with customers or suppliers; · possibility of incurring impairment losses related to goodwill and other intangible assets; · unidentified issues not discovered in due diligence, which may include product quality issues or legal contingencies; and · potential dilution to existing stockholders if we issue common stock or other equity rights in the acquisition. We obtain certain hardware product components under sole-source supply arrangements, and any disruptions to these arrangements could jeopardize the manufacturing or distribution of certain of our hardware products. Although we generally prefer to establish multi-source supply arrangements for our hardware product components, multi-source arrangements are not always possible or cost-effective. We consequently depend on sole-source suppliers for certain hardware product components, including some critical items. We do not generally carry significant inventories of, and may not in all cases have guaranteed supply arrangements for, these sole-sourced components. If any of our sole-source suppliers were to cease, suspend or otherwise limit production or shipment of components, or adversely modify supply terms or pricing, our ability to manufacture, distribute and service our finished hardware products may be impaired. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain sole-sourced components, or acceptable substitutes, from alternative suppliers or that we will be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms. We may also be required to expend significant development resources to redesign our products to work around the exclusion of any sole-sourced component or accommodate the inclusion of any substitute component. We depend on the availability and proper functioning of certain third-party technology that we incorporate into or bundle with our products. We license third-party technology for incorporation into or bundling with our products. This technology may provide us with critical or strategic feature sets or functionality. The profit margin for each of our products depends in part on the royalty, license and purchase fees we pay in connection with third-party technology. To the extent we add additional third-party technology to our products and we are unable to offset associated costs, our profit margins may decline and our operating results may suffer. In addition to cost implications, third-party technology may include defects or errors that could adversely affect the performance of our products, which may harm our market reputation or adversely affect our product sales. Third-party technology may also include certain open source software code that if used in combination with our own software may jeopardize our intellectual property rights. If any third-party technology license expires, is terminated or ceases to be available on commercially reasonable terms, we may be required to expend considerable resources integrating alternative third-party technology or developing our own substitute technology. In the interim, sales of our products may be delayed or suspended or we may be forced to distribute our products with reduced feature sets or functionality. 11 Our future results could be materially adversely affected if we are accused of or found to be infringing third parties’ intellectual property rights. Because of technological change in our industry, extensive and sometimes uncertain patent coverage, and the rapid issuance of new patents, it is possible that certain of our products or business methods may inadvertently infringe the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. Third parties contact us from time to time alleging that our products infringe their intellectual property rights. Allegations from opportunistic patent owners often lack merit and are undertaken with the goal of inducing the alleged infringer into a quick settlement to thereby spare the alleged infringer the nuisance and expense of legal discovery and a trial. Our general practice is to mount a vigorous defense against any claim that we believe lacks merit and eschew a quick settlement. This practice may cause us to incur significant legal defense costs that could have a negative impact on our operating results. With respect to legitimate allegations, our general practice is to negotiate licenses to the patented inventions as appropriate, which may include back-royalties to compensate for past use or distribution of the patented invention. Additional royalties will increase our cost-of-goods-sold and reduce our operating results. To the extent licenses are not available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all, we may be required to expend considerable time and resources to develop a non-infringing alternative. In the interim, sales of our products may be delayed or suspended or we may be forced to distribute our products with reduced feature sets or functionality. In addition to allegations made directly against us, in some cases we have indemnification obligations with respect to claims of infringement made against our customers and other related parties. A broadly targeted claim of infringement made against our customers or other related parties may result in significant defense costs for us. Our intellectual property and trade secrets are valuable assets that may be subject to third-party infringement and misappropriation. As a technology company, our intellectual property and trade secrets are among our most valuable assets. Infringement or misappropriation of these assets results in lost revenues to us and thereby ultimately reduces their value. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions and anti-piracy technology in certain of our products to protect our intellectual property and trade secrets. Most of these tools require vigilant monitoring of competitor and other third-party activities and of end-user usage of our products to be effective. These tools may not provide adequate protection in all instances, may be subject to circumvention, or may require a vigilance that in some cases exceeds our capabilities or resources. Additionally, the legal regimes of certain countries in which we operate may not protect our intellectual property or trade secrets to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Regardless of jurisdiction, assuming legal protection exists and infringement or misappropriation is detected, any enforcement action that we may pursue could be costly and time-consuming, the outcome will be uncertain, and the alleged offender in some cases may seek to have our intellectual property rights invalidated. Our revenues and operating results depend significantly on our third-party reseller and distribution channels. We distribute many of our products indirectly through third-party resellers and distributors. Relatively few resellers and distributors account for a significant portion of our consumer revenues. The loss of one or more of these or other key resellers or distributors may significantly reduce our revenues. To the extent we distribute our products directly to end-user customers, we may be in competition with our resellers and distributors. In response to our direct sales strategies or for other business reasons, our current resellers and distributors may from time to time choose to resell our competitors’ products in addition to, or in place of, ours. Certain of our resellers and distributors have limited rights of return, as well as inventory stock rotation and price protection. Accordingly, reserves for estimated returns and exchanges, and credits for price protection, are recorded as a reduction of revenues upon applicable product shipment, and are based upon our historical experience. To date, actual returns of relevant products have not differed materially from our management’s estimates. To the extent that returns exceed estimates, our revenues and operating results may be adversely affected. 12 A catastrophic event may significantly limit our ability to conduct business as normal. We operate a complex, geographically dispersed business, which includes a significant personnel and facilities presence in California near major earthquake fault lines. We may not have a sufficiently comprehensive enterprise-wide disaster recovery plan in place, and we are predominantly uninsured for losses and disruptions caused by catastrophic events. Disruption or failure of our networks or systems, or injury or damage to our personnel or physical infrastructure, caused by a natural disaster, public health crisis, terrorism, cyber attack, act of war or other catastrophic event may significantly limit our ability to conduct business as normal, including our ability to communicate and transact with our customers, suppliers, distributors and resellers, and negatively affect our revenues and operating results. Additionally, a catastrophic event could cause us to suspend all or a portion of our operations for a significant period of time, result in a permanent loss of resources, and require the relocation of personnel and materiel to alternate facilities that may not be available or adequate. A prolonged disruption of our business could damage our reputation, particularly among our global news organization customers who are likely to require our solutions and support during such time. Our products may experience quality issues that could negatively impact our customer relationships, our market reputation and our operating results. Our software products, as is typical of sophisticated, complex software, occasionally include coding defects or errors (commonly referred to as “bugs”), which in some cases may interfere with or impair a customer’s ability to operate or use the software. Similarly, our hardware products could include design or manufacturing defects that could cause them to malfunction. Although we employ quality control measures, those measures are not designed or intended to detect and remedy all defects. The time and resources available to devote to quality control measures are, in part, dependent on other business considerations, such as meeting customer expectations with respect to release schedules. Any product defects could result in loss of customers or revenues, delays in revenue recognition, increased product returns, damage to our market reputation and significant warranty or other expense. Our global brand alignment effort could affect customer acceptance of certain rebranded products, thereby impacting our future success. We have undergone an effort to achieve global brand alignment as part of the effort to transform our business that is discussed above. This effort is still underway, and brand migration poses risks of both business disruption and customer acceptance, particularly with respect to acquired legacy brands that we are assimilating into the Avid brand. Our customer outreach and similar efforts may not mitigate fully the risks of our branding efforts, which may lead to reductions in revenues in some markets, which may adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations, and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. We may incur financial and operational risk in connection with the move of our headquarters from Tewksbury, Massachusetts to Burlington, Massachusetts. In November 2009, we announced plans to move our corporate headquarters to Burlington, Massachusetts from Tewksbury, Massachusetts. In connection with the move, we have signed three lease agreements for approximately 200,000 square feet of space in three existing structures. We anticipate that the move will occur in the second quarter of 2010, and will require the significant build-out, both within and without the existing structures, of customer-facing, training, office, and research and development space. Risks associated with the relocation include delays in receiving necessary permits and approvals, the failure of contractors to meet agreed construction milestones, the disruption of our ongoing business, distraction of management and employees, and the possible loss of key employees who may be unable or unwilling to work in the new location. Additionally, while we expect the relocation to result in estimated annual cash savings, savings from relocating a facility can be highly variable and uncertain. Furthermore, under the terms of the lease of our current headquarters, prior to vacating the premises we are obligated to cover certain campus restoration costs, the scope of which is currently uncertain. 13 Lengthy procurement lead times and unpredictable life cycles and customer demand for some of our products may result in significant inventory risks. With respect to many of our products, we must procure component parts and build finished inventory far in advance of product shipments. Certain of these products may have unpredictable life cycles and encounter rapid technological obsolescence as a result of dynamic market conditions. We procure product components and build inventory based upon our forecasts of product life cycle and customer demand. If we are unable to accurately forecast product life cycle and customer demand or unable to manage our inventory levels in response to shifts in customer demand, the result may be insufficient, excess or obsolete product inventory. Insufficient product inventory may impair our ability to fulfill product orders and negatively affect our revenues, while excess or obsolete inventory may require a write-down on products and components to their net realizable value, which would negatively affect our results of operations. Qualifying and supporting our products on multiple computer platforms is time-consuming and expensive. Hardware and operating systems change rapidly in our industry, and changes made by our suppliers can adversely affect the operation of our products. We devote significant time and resources to support state of the art computer platforms. These efforts may add significantly to our development expenses and adversely affect our operating results. Failure to achieve qualification on a timely basis may additionally adversely affect our operating results. Our international operations expose us to significant exchange rate fluctuations, as well as regulatory, intellectual property and other risks that may adversely affect our operating results. We derive more than half of our revenues from customers outside of the United States. Our international sales are, for the most part, transacted through foreign subsidiaries and generally in the currency of the end-user customers. We consequently are exposed to currency exchange risks that may adversely affect our revenues, operating results and cash flow. To hedge against the international exchange exposure of certain forecasted receivables, payables and cash balances of our foreign subsidiaries, we enter into foreign currency forward-exchange contracts. The success of our hedging program depends on the accuracy of our forecasts of transaction activity in the various currencies. To the extent that these forecasts are over- or understated during periods of currency volatility, we may experience currency gains or losses. In addition to exposing us to currency and exchange risks, our international operations require us to comply with myriad environmental, tax and export laws, as well as other business regulations. The risks associated with these laws and regulations may from time to time include, among other things, high compliance costs, rapid adoption requirements, inconsistencies among jurisdictions, and a lack of administrative or judicial interpretative guidance. We additionally tend to encounter in our international operations longer collection cycles for accounts receivable and, as discussed in a previous risk factor, greater difficulties in protecting our intellectual property. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock has experienced volatility in the past and may continue to fluctuate substantially in the future in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to: · period-to-period variations in our revenues or operating results; · market reaction to significant corporate initiatives or announcements; · our ability to innovate; · our relative competitive position within our markets; · shifts in markets or demand for our solutions; · changes in our relationships with suppliers, resellers, distributors or customers; · our failure to accurately forecast revenues or operating results; 14 · our commencement of, or involvement in, litigation; · short sales, hedging or other derivative transactions involving shares of our common stock; and · shifts in financial markets. Additionally, broader financial market and global economic trends may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 