Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully all of the information set forth or incorporated by reference in this document and, in particular, the following risk factors associated with our business and forward-looking information in this document (see also “Forward-Looking Statements” included in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”). The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we do not currently consider significant may also have an adverse effect on us. If any of the risks below actually occur, our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition could suffer. Our performance may be affected by general economic conditions and the continued global financial difficulties. Our performance is subject to worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer spending, which have deteriorated significantly over the past approximately one year and may remain depressed, or be subject to further deterioration, for the foreseeable future. Some of the factors that are having an impact on discretionary consumer spending include general economic conditions, employment, consumer debt, reductions in net worth based on securities market declines, residential real estate and mortgage markets, taxation, healthcare costs, fuel and energy prices, interest rates, credit availability, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors. The worldwide apparel industry is heavily influenced by general economic cycles. Apparel retailing is a cyclical industry that is heavily dependent upon the overall level of consumer spending. Purchases of specialty apparel and related goods tend to be highly correlated with the cycles of the levels of disposable income of consumers. As a result, any substantial deterioration in general economic conditions could adversely affect our net sales and results of operations. Downturns, or the expectation of a downturn, in general economic conditions could adversely affect consumer spending patterns, our sales and our results of operations. Consumer purchases of discretionary items generally decline during recessionary periods and other periods where disposable income is adversely affected. The downturn in the economy may continue to affect consumer purchases of our merchandise and have an adverse impact on our sales, results of operations and cash flow. Because apparel generally is a discretionary purchase, declines in consumer spending may have a more negative effect on apparel retailers than on other retailers. We may not be profitable if there is a decline in consumer spending. The turmoil in the financial markets over the past approximately 15 months has resulted in extreme volatility in security prices and diminished liquidity and credit availability, and there can be no assurance that our liquidity will not be affected by changes in the financial markets and the global economy. Tightening of the credit markets and recent or future turmoil in the financial markets could also make it more difficult for us to access funds, to refinance our existing indebtedness (if necessary), to enter into agreements for new indebtedness, or to obtain funding through the issuance of our securities. In addition, the continued fallout from last year’s credit crisis is having a significant negative impact on businesses around the world, and the impact of this crisis on our suppliers cannot be predicted. The inability of suppliers to access liquidity, or the insolvency of suppliers, could lead to their failure to deliver our merchandise. Worsening economic conditions could also result in difficulties for financial institutions (including bank failures) and other parties that we may do business with, which could potentially impair our ability to access financing under existing arrangements or to otherwise recover amounts as they become due under our other contractual arrangements. Additionally, either as a result of or independent of the current financial difficulties and economic weakness in the United States, material fluctuations in currency exchange rates could have a negative impact on our business. Our comparable store sales and quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future and, as a result, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate or decline substantially. Our comparable store sales and quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future and are affected by a variety of factors, including: • the opening of new stores and success of our leased department and licensed relationships; 16 • the timing of new store openings and leased department and licensed brand business openings; • the timing of the fulfillment of purchase orders under our product and license arrangements; • the extent of cannibalization of sales volume of some of our existing retail locations by our new retail locations opened in the same geographic markets; • changes in our merchandise mix; • any repositioning of our brands; • general economic conditions and, in particular, the retail sales environment; • calendar shifts, including shifts of holiday or seasonal periods, or shifts in the number of weekend days occurring in a given month; • changes in pregnancy rates; • actions of competitors; • the level of success and/or actions of anchor tenants where we have stores or leased department and licensed relationships; • fashion trends; and • weather conditions and seasonality. If, at any time, our comparable store sales or quarterly results of operations decline or do not meet the expectations of investors, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Our share price may be volatile and could decline substantially. The market price of our common stock has been, and is expected to continue to be, volatile, both because of actual and perceived changes in our financial results and prospects and because of general volatility in the stock market. The factors that could cause fluctuations in our share price may include, among other factors discussed in this section, the following: • actual or anticipated variations in the financial results and prospects of our business or other companies in the retail business; • changes in financial estimates by Wall Street research analysts; • actual or anticipated changes in the United States economy or the retailing environment; • changes in the market valuations of other specialty apparel or retail companies; • announcements by our competitors or us; • additions and departures of key personnel; • changes in accounting principles; • the passage of legislation or other developments affecting us or our industry; • the trading volume of our common stock in the public market; • changes in economic conditions; • financial market conditions; • natural disasters, terrorist acts, acts of war or periods of civil unrest; and • the realization of some or all of the risks described in this section entitled “Risk Factors.” 17 In addition, the stock markets have experienced significant price and trading volume fluctuations from time to time, and the market prices of the equity securities of retailers have been extremely volatile and are sometimes subject to sharp price and trading volume changes. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We may not be successful in expanding our business and opening new stores. Any future growth depends significantly on our ability to successfully establish and operate new stores (including combo stores and superstores) and our leased department and licensed relationships on a profitable basis, as well as the success and profitability of our international business, including through franchising relationships. This growth, if it occurs, will place increased demands on our management, operational and administrative resources. These increased demands and operating complexities could cause us to operate our business less effectively, which, in turn, could cause a deterioration in our financial performance and negatively impact our growth. Any planned growth will also require that we continually monitor and upgrade our management information and other systems, as well as our distribution infrastructure. Our ability to establish and operate new stores and our leased department and licensed relationships successfully depends on many factors, including, among others, our ability to: • identify and obtain suitable store locations, including mall locations, the availability of which is outside of our control; • retain existing, expand existing and establish new leased department and licensed relationships; • negotiate favorable lease terms for stores, including desired tenant improvement allowances; • negotiate favorable lease terminations for existing store locations in markets where we intend to open new combo stores or superstores; • source sufficient levels of inventory to meet the needs of new stores and our leased department and licensed relationships; • successfully address competition, merchandising and distribution challenges; and • hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified store personnel. The success and profitability of our international relationships depends on many factors, including, among others: • the ability of our franchisees to identify and obtain suitable store locations, including mall locations, the availability of which is outside of their control; • the ability of our franchisees to negotiate favorable lease terms for stores, including desired tenant improvement allowances; • our ability to source sufficient levels of inventory to meet the needs of our franchisees’ international operations; • our ability and the ability of our franchisees to successfully address competition, merchandising and distribution challenges; and • the ability of our franchisees to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified store personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to grow our business and achieve our goals. Even if we succeed in establishing new stores, further developing our leased department and licensed relationships and further expanding our international relationships, we cannot assure that these initiatives will achieve planned revenue or profitability levels in the time periods estimated by us, or at all. If any of these initiatives fails to achieve or is unable to sustain acceptable revenue and profitability levels, we may incur significant costs. 18 Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely impacted at any time by a significant number of competitors. We operate in a highly competitive environment characterized by few barriers to entry. We compete against department stores, specialty retail chains, discount stores, independent retail stores and catalog and Internet-based retailers. Many of our competitors are larger and have substantially greater financial and other resources than us. Further, we do not typically advertise using television and radio media and thus do not reach customers through means our competitors may use. Our mid- and luxury-priced merchandise faces a highly fragmented competitive landscape that includes locally based, single unit retailers, as well as a handful of multi-unit maternity operations, none of which we believe have more than 10 stores nationwide. In the value-priced maternity apparel business, we face competition on a nationwide basis from retailers such as Gap, JCPenney, Old Navy, Target and Wal-Mart. All of these competitors also sell maternity apparel on their websites. Over the past few years, there has been increased competition in the maternity apparel business from both new and existing competition. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected by this competition, including the potential for increased competition in the future. For example, the maternity apparel business has previously experienced oversupply conditions due to increased competition in the maternity apparel business, which resulted in a greater level of industry-wide markdowns and markdowns recognized by us on sales from our retail locations. There can be no assurance that these conditions will not occur again or worsen. Our relationships with third-party retailers may not be successful. We cannot guarantee successful results from or the continuation of our leased department and licensed relationships with third-party retailers such as Sears, Kmart, Macy’s, Bloomingdales, Babies“R”Us, Boscov’s, Gordmans and Kohl’s. Under our agreement with Kohl’s, subject to certain notice obligations, Kohl’s is not obligated to purchase any maternity apparel from us and we are not obligated to sell any maternity apparel to them. Under our agreement with our leased department partners, those partners do not make any promises or representations as to the potential amount of business we can expect from the sale of our product in their stores. We do not control the pricing terms or the timing or degree of the markdowns at Kohl’s. The success of our leased department and licensed brand businesses is highly dependent on the actions and decisions of the third-party retailers, which are outside of our control. The retailers could limit the merchandise carried, close stores, go out of business or terminate their agreements with us. Our failure to properly manage our leased department and licensed brand businesses (including any failure by us in timely delivering goods to any third-party retailer or any failure to respond to the actions of or changes in business conditions at third-party retailers) would have a direct impact on the profitability and continuation of these relationships. We require a significant amount of cash to service our indebtedness, which reduces the cash available to finance any growth and could adversely affect our financial health. We have a significant amount of indebtedness and we have the ability to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Our ability to make required payments on our indebtedness, as well as to fund our operations and future growth, depends upon our ability to generate cash. Our success in generating cash depends upon the results of our operations, as well as upon general economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Additionally, our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to making payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to implement our growth strategy, or to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate needs; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; 19 • result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates as some of our debt is, and will continue to be, at variable rates of interest, and our available borrowings under our credit facility, to the extent borrowed in the future, would be at variable rates of interest; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt, or debt at lower interest rates; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds; • make it more difficult for us to open new stores or improve or expand existing stores; • restrict our ability to pay dividends or make distributions to our stockholders; • require us to pledge all or substantially all of our assets as collateral to secure indebtedness; and • make it more difficult for us to pursue strategic acquisitions, alliances and partnerships. If we are unable to meet our expenses and debt obligations, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness before the scheduled maturity dates of such debt, sell assets or raise equity. On such maturity dates, we may need to refinance our indebtedness if our operations do not generate enough cash to pay such indebtedness in full and if we do not raise additional capital. Our ability to refinance will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We cannot assure you that we would be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, sell assets or raise equity on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could cause us to default on our obligations and impair our liquidity. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. Our term loan, with an outstanding balance of $54.8 million as of September 30, 2009, bears interest at a variable rate equal to, at our election, either (i) the prime rate plus 1.00%, or (ii) a LIBOR rate plus the applicable margin. The applicable margin for LIBOR rate borrowings is either 2.25% or 2.50%, depending on our Consolidated Leverage Ratio (as defined). Based upon our applicable quarterly Consolidated Leverage Ratio during fiscal 2009, the applicable margin for LIBOR rate borrowings remained at 2.50% for fiscal 2009 and the first quarter of fiscal 2010. Based upon our Consolidated Leverage Ratio as of September 30, 2009, the applicable margin for LIBOR rate borrowings will be 2.25% effective for the second quarter of fiscal 2010. In order to mitigate our floating rate interest risk on the variable rate term loan, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement that commenced on April 18, 2007 and expires on April 18, 2012. The interest rate swap agreement enables us to effectively convert an amount of the term loan equal to the notional amount of the interest rate swap from a floating interest rate of LIBOR plus 2.50% (subject to reduction to LIBOR plus 2.25% if we achieve a specified leverage ratio), to a fixed interest rate of 7.50% (subject to reduction to 7.25% if we achieve a specified leverage ratio) for the significant majority of the term loan. The notional amount of the interest rate swap was $75.0 million at the inception of the swap agreement and decreases over time to a notional amount of $5.0 million at the expiration date. The notional amount of the swap was $42.5 million as of September 30, 2009 and over the next eighteen months decreases as follows: to $35.0 million starting October 19, 2009; to $27.5 million starting April 19, 2010; and to $20.0 million starting October 18, 2010. Regardless of our attempts to mitigate our exposure to interest rate fluctuations through the interest rate swap, we still have exposure for the un-swapped amounts of the term loan borrowings, which remain subject to a variable interest rate. As a result, an increase in interest rates could result in a substantial increase in interest expense, especially as the swapped amount of the term loan decreases over time. We are heavily dependent on our management information systems and our ability to maintain and upgrade these systems from time to time. The efficient operation of our business is heavily dependent on our internally developed management information systems. In particular, we rely on point-of-sale terminals, which provide information to our customized merchandise analysis and planning system used to track sales and inventory. The merchandise 20 analysis and planning system helps integrate our design, manufacturing, distribution and financial functions, and also provides daily financial and merchandising information. Although our software programs and data are backed up and securely stored off-site, our servers and computer systems are located at our headquarters in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if our servers and systems were inoperable or inaccessible. From time to time, we improve and upgrade our management information systems. We have a proprietary, Internet-based point-of-sale system. If we are unable to maintain and upgrade our systems or to integrate new and updated systems in an efficient and timely manner, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. As an apparel retailer, we rely on numerous third parties in the supply chain to produce and deliver the products that we sell, and our business may be negatively impacted by disruptions in the supply chain. If we lose the services of one or more of our significant suppliers or one or more of them fail to meet our product needs, we may be unable to obtain replacement merchandise in a timely manner. If our existing suppliers cannot meet our increased needs and we cannot locate alternative supply sources, we may be unable to obtain sufficient quantities of the most popular items at attractive prices, which could negatively impact our sales and results of operations. We obtain apparel and other merchandise from foreign sources, both purchased directly in foreign markets and indirectly through domestic vendors with foreign sources. To the extent that any of our vendors are located overseas or rely on overseas sources for a large portion of their products, any event causing a disruption of imports, including the imposition of import restrictions, could harm our ability to source product. This disruption could materially limit the merchandise that we would have available for sale and reduce our sales and earnings. The flow of merchandise from our vendors could also be adversely affected by financial or political instability, or war, in or affecting any of the countries in which the goods we purchase are manufactured or through which they flow. Trade restrictions in the form of tariffs or quotas, embargos and customs restrictions that are applicable to the products that we sell also could affect the import of those products and could increase the cost and reduce the supply of products available to us. Any material increase in tariff levels, or any material decrease in quota levels or available quota allocation, could negatively impact our business. Further, changes in tariffs or quotas for merchandise imported from individual foreign countries could lead us to shift our sources of supply among various countries. Any such shift we undertake in the future could result in a disruption of our sources of supply and lead to a reduction in our sales and earnings. Supply chain security initiatives undertaken by the United States government that impede the normal flow of product could also negatively impact our business. In addition, decreases in the value of the United States dollar against foreign currencies could increase the cost of products that we purchase from overseas vendors. We also face a variety of other risks generally associated with relying on vendors that do business in foreign markets and import merchandise from abroad, such as: • political instability or the threat of terrorism, particularly in countries where our vendors source merchandise; • enhanced security measures at United States and foreign ports, which could delay delivery of imports; • imposition of new or supplemental duties, taxes, and other charges on imports; • delayed receipt or non-delivery of goods due to the failure of foreign-source suppliers to comply with applicable import regulations; • delayed receipt or non-delivery of goods due to organized labor strikes or unexpected or significant port congestion at United States ports; and • local business practice and political issues, including issues relating to compliance with domestic or international labor standards, which may result in adverse publicity. 21 The United States may impose new initiatives that adversely affect the trading status of countries where apparel is manufactured. These initiatives may include retaliatory duties or other trade sanctions that, if enacted, would increase the cost of products imported from countries where our vendors acquire merchandise. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could be materially and adversely affected if our distribution operations were disrupted. To support our distribution of product throughout the world, we operate our main distribution facility in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and two significantly smaller distribution facilities, one in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and the other, serving as our Canadian distribution facility, in Mississauga, Ontario. Finished garments from contractors and other manufacturers are inspected and stored for distribution to our stores. We do not have other distribution facilities to support our distribution needs. If our main Philadelphia distribution facility were to shut down or otherwise become inoperable or inaccessible for any reason, we could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with the distribution of our products to our stores during the time it takes to reopen or replace this facility. In light of our strategic emphasis on rapid replenishment as a competitive strength, a distribution disruption might have a disproportionately adverse effect on our operations and profitability relative to other retailers. In addition, the loss or material disruption of service from any of our shippers for any reason, whether due to freight difficulties, strikes, natural disaster or other difficulties at our principal transport providers or otherwise, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to obtain sufficient raw materials or maintain satisfactory manufacturing arrangements. We do not own any manufacturing facilities and therefore depend on third parties to manufacture our products. We place our orders for production of merchandise and raw materials by purchase order and do not have any long-term contracts with any manufacturer or supplier. We compete with many other companies for production facilities and raw materials. Furthermore, we have received in the past, and may receive in the future, shipments of products from manufacturers that fail to conform to our quality control standards. In such event, unless we are able to obtain replacement products in a timely manner, we may lose sales. If we fail to maintain favorable relationships with these third parties, or if we cannot obtain an adequate supply of quality raw materials on commercially reasonable terms, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our stores are heavily dependent on the customer traffic generated by shopping malls. We depend heavily on locating our stores in prominent locations within successful shopping malls in order to generate customer traffic. We cannot control the development of new shopping malls, the availability or cost of appropriate locations within existing or new shopping malls or the success of existing or new mall stores. The success of all of our mall stores will depend, in part, on the ability of each mall’s anchor tenants, such as large department stores, other tenants and area attractions to generate consumer traffic in the vicinity of our stores, and the continuing popularity of malls as shopping destinations. Many traditional enclosed malls are experiencing significantly lower levels of customer traffic than in the past driven by overall poor economic conditions as well as the closure of certain mall anchor tenants. Sales volume and mall traffic may be adversely affected by economic downturns in a particular area, the closing of anchor tenants or competition from non-mall retailers and other malls where we do not have stores. Our success depends on our ability to identify and rapidly respond to fashion trends. The apparel industry is subject to rapidly changing fashion trends and shifting consumer demands. Accordingly, our success depends on the priority that our target customers place on fashion and our ability to anticipate, identify and capitalize upon emerging fashion trends. Our ability or our failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately to changes in styles or trends could lead to, among other things, excess inventories and 22 higher markdowns, as well as the decreased appeal of our brands. Particular fashion trends, or an inaccuracy of our forecasts regarding fashion trends, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, in fiscal 2007 we were negatively impacted from the popularity of certain styles in the non-maternity women’s apparel market, such as trapeze and baby-doll dresses and tops, which can more readily fit a pregnant woman early in her pregnancy than typical non-maternity fashions. The failure to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified senior management personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business requires disciplined execution at all levels of our organization in order to timely deliver and display fashionable merchandise in appropriate quantities in our stores. This execution requires experienced and talented management. We currently have a management team with a great deal of experience with us and in apparel retailing. If we were to lose the benefit of this experience, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. On November 6, 2009, we announced the retirement of Rebecca Matthias, our co-founder, at the end of fiscal 2010. Pursuant to our transition agreement with Ms. Matthias, she will be a full-time employee of the Company until June 5, 2010. After June 15, 2010, Ms. Matthias will remain in an employment relationship with us on a part-time basis through September 30, 2010, and will then provide consulting services to us, as requested, through September 30, 2012. If we were unable to compensate for the loss of the benefit of Ms. Matthias’ experience, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, as our business expands, we believe that our success will depend greatly on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. There is a high level of competition for personnel in the retail industry. Like most retailers, we experience significant employee turnover rates, particularly among store sales associates and managers, and our continued growth will require us to hire and train even more new personnel. We therefore must continually attract, hire and train new personnel to meet our staffing needs. We constantly compete for qualified personnel with companies in our industry and in other industries. A significant increase in the turnover rate among our sales associates and managers would increase our recruiting and training costs and could decrease our operating efficiency and productivity. If we are unable to retain our employees or attract, train, assimilate or retain other skilled personnel in the future, we may not be able to service our customers as effectively, which could impair our ability to increase sales and could otherwise harm our business. Our quarterly operating results and inventory levels may fluctuate significantly as a result of seasonality in our business. Our business, like that of other retailers, is seasonal. Results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for a full fiscal year. Quarterly results may fluctuate materially depending upon, among other things, increases or decreases in comparable store sales, the timing of new store openings and new leased department openings, net sales and profitability contributed by new stores and leased departments, the timing of the fulfillment of purchase orders under our product and license arrangements, adverse weather conditions, shifts in the timing of certain holidays and promotions, changes in inventory and production levels and the timing of deliveries of inventory, and changes in our merchandise mix. Our quarterly net sales have historically been highest in our third fiscal quarter, corresponding to the Spring selling season, followed by our first fiscal quarter, corresponding to the Fall/holiday selling season. Given the historically higher sales level in our third fiscal quarter and the relatively fixed nature of most of our operating expenses and interest expense, we have typically generated a very significant percentage of our full year operating income and net income during our third fiscal quarter. Thus, any factors which result in a material reduction of our sales for the third quarter could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for our fiscal year as a whole. Seasonal fluctuations in sales also affect our inventory levels, as we usually order merchandise in advance of peak selling periods and sometimes before new fashion trends are confirmed by customer purchases. We must carry a significant amount of inventory, especially before the Fall/holiday and Spring selling seasons. If we are not successful in selling our inventory during this period, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to sell the excess inventory or we may not be able to sell the inventory at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 23 Our business depends on sustained demand for maternity clothing and is sensitive to birth rates, women’s fashion trends, economic conditions and consumer spending. Our business depends upon sustained demand for maternity clothing. Our future performance will be subject to a number of factors beyond our control, including demographic changes, fashion trends, economic conditions and consumer spending. If demand for maternity clothing were to decline for any reason, such as a decrease in the number of pregnancies, our operating results could be adversely affected. Additionally, our operating results could be adversely affected if certain non-maternity women’s apparel fashions have a more pregnancy-friendly fit. For example, in fiscal 2007, we were negatively impacted by the popularity of certain styles in the non-maternity women’s apparel market, such as trapeze and baby-doll dresses and tops, which can more readily fit a pregnant woman early in her pregnancy than typical non-maternity fashions. Downturns, or the expectation of a downturn, in general economic conditions could adversely affect consumer spending patterns, our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the specialty apparel retail business historically has been subject to cyclical variations. Consumer purchases of specialty apparel products, including maternity wear, may decline during recessionary periods and at other times when disposable income is lower. Declines in consumer spending patterns may have a more negative effect on apparel retailers than some other retailers. Therefore, we may not be able to maintain our historical sales and earnings, or remain as profitable, if there is a decline in consumer spending patterns. A prolonged economic downturn could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. If an independent manufacturer violates labor or other laws, or is accused of violating any such laws, or if their labor practices diverge from those generally accepted as ethical, it could harm our business and brand image. While we maintain policies and guidelines with respect to labor practices that independent manufacturers that produce goods for us are contractually required to follow, and while we have an independent firm and Company employees inspect certain manufacturing sites to monitor compliance, we cannot control the actions of such manufacturers or the public’s perceptions of them, nor can we assure that these manufacturers will conduct their businesses using ethical or legal labor practices. Apparel companies can be held jointly liable for the wrongdoings of the manufacturers of their products. While many of our independent manufacturers are routinely monitored by buying representatives, who assist us in the areas of compliance, garment quality and delivery, we do not control the manufacturers’ business practices or their employees’ employment conditions, and manufacturers act in their own interest which may be in a manner that results in negative public perceptions of us, and/or employee allegations against us or court determinations that we are jointly liable. Violations of law by our importers, buying agents, manufacturers or distributors could result in delays in shipments and receipt of goods and could subject us to fines or other penalties, any of which could restrict our business activities, increase our operating expenses or cause our sales to decline. We may be unable to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property and may be subject to liability if we are alleged to have infringed on another party’s intellectual property. We believe that our trademarks, service marks and other intellectual property are important to our continued success and our competitive position due to their recognition with our customers. We devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks, service marks and other intellectual property. Although we actively protect our intellectual property, there can be no assurance that the actions that we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks, service marks and other intellectual property, including our rights in our management information systems and our proprietary rights in products for which we have applied for patent protection (for example, our Secret Fit Belly™ innovation), will be adequate to prevent imitation of our marks, products or services by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of their trademarks, service marks or other proprietary rights. Also, others may assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other proprietary rights or may allege that we have or are infringing on their intellectual property rights and we may not be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our trademarks and proprietary rights to the same extent as 24 do the laws of the United States. We cannot assure you that these registrations will prevent imitation of our name, merchandising concept, store design or private label merchandise, or the infringement of our other intellectual property rights by others. Imitation of our name, concept, store design or merchandise in a manner that projects lesser quality or carries a negative connotation of our brand image could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, the high expense in both prosecuting and defending against, and potential liability related to, alleged infringements of intellectual property rights could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. War or acts of terrorism or the threat of either may negatively impact availability of merchandise and otherwise adversely impact our business. In the event of war or acts of terrorism, or if either is threatened, our ability to obtain merchandise available for sale may be negatively affected. A substantial portion of our merchandise is imported from other countries. If goods become difficult or impossible to import into the United States, and if we cannot obtain such merchandise from other sources at similar costs, our sales and profit margins may be adversely affected. In the event that commercial transportation is curtailed or substantially delayed, our business may be adversely impacted, as we may have difficulty shipping merchandise to our main distribution facility and retail locations, as well as fulfilling Internet orders. The terms of our debt instruments impose financial and operating restrictions. Our credit facility and term loan agreements each contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long term best interests. These covenants limit or restrict, among other things, our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • pay dividends or make other distributions in respect of our equity securities, or purchase or redeem capital stock, or make certain investments; • have our subsidiaries pay dividends, make loans or transfer assets to us; • sell assets, including the capital stock of our subsidiaries; • enter into any transactions with our affiliates; • transfer any capital stock of any subsidiary or permit any subsidiary to issue capital stock; • create liens; • enter into certain sale/leaseback transactions; and • effect a consolidation or merger or transfer of all or substantially all of our assets. These limitations and restrictions may adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in our best interests. In addition, our ability to borrow under the credit facility is subject to borrowing base requirements. If we breach any of the covenants in our credit facility or term loan agreements, we may be in default under our credit facility and/or our term loan. If we default, the lenders under our term loan or the lender under our credit facility could declare all borrowings owed to them, including accrued interest and other fees, to be due and payable. Our charter documents contain certain anti-takeover provisions, and we are entitled to certain other protective provisions under Delaware law. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of the Company, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. We also have adopted a stockholder rights plan, commonly known as a “poison pill,” that entitles our stockholders to acquire additional shares of us, or a potential acquirer of us, at a 25 substantial discount to their market value in the event of an attempted takeover. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition involving us that our stockholders may consider favorable by, among other things: • authorizing the issuance of preferred stock, the terms of which may be determined at the discretion of our Board of Directors; • restricting the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at meetings. These provisions may also reduce the market value of our common stock. We do not expect to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock since our initial public offering and do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, the terms of each of our credit facility and term loan agreements restrict our ability to declare or pay dividends on our common stock. Even if our ability to pay dividends were not restricted, any future payment of dividends would still be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and would be based upon any applicable restrictive financial covenants, earnings, capital requirements and our financial condition, among other factors, at the time any such dividend is considered. Any increase in our sales and marketing efforts that target markets outside the United States and Canada would expose us to additional risks associated with international operations. Although an immaterial amount of our sales are currently derived from international sales outside of Canada, we are actively seeking to expand our international presence, and we have begun to do so through franchise arrangements in the Middle East and India. We may not be successful in these efforts. International operations and sales subject us to risks and challenges that we would otherwise not face if we conducted our business only in the United States. For example, we may depend on third parties to market our products through foreign sales channels, and we may be challenged by laws and business practices favoring local competitors. In addition, our ability to succeed in foreign markets will depend on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We must also adapt our pricing structure to address different pricing environments and may face difficulty in enforcing revenue collection internationally. Emerging markets are a significant focus of our international growth strategy. The developing nature of these markets presents a number of risks. Deterioration of social, political, labor, or economic conditions in a specific country or region and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations may also adversely affect our operations or financial results or those of our franchisees. Operations outside the United States may be affected by changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments. To the extent we achieve significant sales outside of the United States in the future, we may have significant exposure to fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates. We could have failures in our system of internal controls. We maintain a documented system of internal controls which is reviewed and monitored by management, who meet regularly with our Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. We believe we have a well-designed system to maintain adequate internal controls on the business. We cannot assure you that there will not be any control deficiencies in the future. Should we become aware of any control deficiencies, we would report them to the Audit Committee and recommend prompt remediation. We have devoted significant resources to document, test, monitor and improve our internal controls and will continue to do so; however, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that our controls are adequate in the future or that adequate controls will be effective in preventing fraud. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. Any failures in the effectiveness of our internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results or cause us to fail to meet reporting obligations. 26 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 