Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully all of the information set forth or incorporated by reference in this document and, in particular, the following risk factors associated with our business and forward-looking information in this document (see also “Forward-Looking Statements” included in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations). The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we do not currently consider significant may also have an adverse effect on us. If any of the risks below actually occur, our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition or stock price could suffer. Our performance may be affected by general economic conditions and financial difficulties. Our performance is subject to worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer spending. Some of the factors that have, or have had, an impact on discretionary consumer spending include general economic conditions, employment, consumer debt, changes in personal net worth based on changes in securities market price levels, residential real estate and mortgage markets, taxation, healthcare costs, fuel and energy prices, interest rates, credit availability, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors. The worldwide apparel industry is heavily influenced by general economic cycles. Apparel retailing is a cyclical industry that is heavily dependent upon the overall level of consumer spending. Purchases of specialty apparel and related goods tend to be highly correlated with the cycles of the levels of disposable income of consumers. As a result, any substantial deterioration in general economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our net sales and results of operations. Downturns, or the expectation of a downturn, in general economic conditions could materially and adversely affect consumer spending patterns, our sales and our results of operations. Consumer purchases of discretionary items generally decline during recessionary periods and other periods where disposable income is adversely affected. Any downturn in the economy may affect consumer purchases of our merchandise and have an adverse impact on our sales, results of operations and cash flow. Because apparel generally is a discretionary purchase, declines in consumer spending may have a more negative effect on apparel retailers than on other retailers. We may not be profitable if there is a decline in consumer spending. The turmoil in the financial markets in 2008-2009 resulted in extreme volatility in security prices and diminished liquidity and credit availability, and there can be no assurance that our liquidity will not be affected if similar turmoil were to arise in the financial markets and the global economy. Tightening of the credit markets and future turmoil in the financial markets could also make it more difficult for us to access funds, to refinance our indebtedness (if necessary), to enter into agreements for new indebtedness, or to obtain funding through the issuance of our securities. In addition, the effect from the 2008-2009 credit crisis had a significant negative impact on businesses around the world, and the potential impact of this crisis, or potential future crises, on our suppliers cannot be predicted. The inability of suppliers to access 14 liquidity, or the insolvency of suppliers, could lead to their failure to deliver our merchandise. Worsening economic conditions could also result in difficulties for financial institutions (including bank failures) and other parties that we may do business with, which could potentially impair our ability to access financing under existing arrangements or to otherwise recover amounts as they become due under our other contractual arrangements. Additionally, either as a result of, or independent of, any financial difficulties and economic weakness in the United States, material fluctuations in currency exchange rates could have a negative impact on our business. Our sales, comparable sales and quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future and, as a result, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate or decline substantially. Our sales, comparable sales and quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future and are affected by a variety of factors, including: — the opening of new stores, the closing of existing stores, and the success of our leased department, licensed brand and international franchise relationships; — the timing of new store openings, and leased department, licensed brand and international franchised business openings; — the timing of the fulfillment of purchase orders under our product and license arrangements; · any disruption to our operations that may arise in connection with the relocations of our corporate office and distribution operations; — the extent of cannibalization of sales volume of some of our existing retail locations by our new retail locations opened in the same geographic markets or by our Internet sales; — changes in our merchandise mix; — any repositioning of our brands; — general economic conditions and, in particular, the retail sales environment; — calendar shifts, including shifts of holiday or seasonal periods, or shifts in the number of weekend days occurring in a given calendar period; — changes in pregnancy rates and birth rates; — actions of competitors; — the level of success and/or actions of anchor tenants where we have stores, or leased department, licensed brand and international franchise relationships; — fashion trends; and — weather conditions and seasonality. If, at any time, our sales, comparable sales or quarterly results of operations decline or do not meet the expectations of investors, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Our share price may be volatile and could decline substantially. The market price of our common stock has been, and is expected to continue to be, volatile, both because of actual and perceived changes in our financial results and prospects, and because of general volatility in the stock market. The factors that could cause fluctuations in our share price may include, among other factors discussed in this section, the following: — actual or anticipated variations in the financial results and prospects of our business or other companies in the retail business; — changes in financial estimates by Wall Street research analysts; — actual or anticipated changes in the United States economy or the retailing environment; — changes in the market valuations of other specialty apparel or retail companies; — announcements by our competitors or us; — additions and departures of key personnel; — changes in accounting principles; — the passage of legislation or other developments affecting us or our industry; — the trading volume of our common stock in the public market; 15 — changes in economic conditions; — financial market conditions; — natural disasters, terrorist acts, acts of war or periods of civil unrest; and — the realization of some or all of the risks described in this section entitled “Risk Factors.” In addition, the stock markets have experienced significant price and trading volume fluctuations from time to time, and the market prices of the equity securities of retailers have been extremely volatile and are sometimes subject to sharp price and trading volume changes. These broad market fluctuations may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We may not be successful in maintaining and expanding our business and opening new retail locations. Any future growth depends significantly on: — our ability to successfully establish and operate new stores (including Destination Maternity combo stores and superstores) on a profitable basis; — our ability to successfully establish new, and to maintain our current, leased department and licensed brand relationships, and to operate such leased department and licensed brand relationships on a profitable basis; and — the success and profitability of our international business, including our ability to successfully establish new, and to maintain our current, international franchise relationships. This growth, if it occurs, will place increased demands on our management, operational and administrative resources. These increased demands and operating complexities could cause us to operate our business less effectively, which, in turn, could cause a deterioration in our financial performance and negatively impact our growth. Any planned growth will also require that we continually monitor and upgrade our management information and other systems, as well as our procurement and distribution infrastructure. Our ability to establish and operate new stores and our leased department and licensed brand relationships successfully depends on many factors, including, among others, our ability to: — identify and obtain suitable store locations, including mall locations, the availability of which is outside of our control; — retain existing, expand existing and establish new leased department and licensed brand relationships; — negotiate favorable lease terms for stores, including desired tenant improvement allowances; — negotiate favorable lease terminations for existing store locations in markets where we intend to open new Destination Maternity combo stores or superstores; — source sufficient levels of inventory to meet the needs of new stores and our leased department and licensed brand relationships; — successfully address competition, merchandising and distribution challenges; and — hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified store personnel. The success and profitability of our international business depends on many factors, including, among others: — our ability to retain our current international franchisees and our ability to identify and reach agreement with new international franchisees or partners; — the ability of our international franchisees or partners to identify and obtain suitable store locations, including mall locations, the availability of which is outside of their control; — the ability of our international franchisees or partners to negotiate favorable lease terms for stores, including desired tenant improvement allowances; — our ability to source sufficient levels of inventory to meet the needs of our franchisees’ or partners’ international operations; — our ability and the ability of our international franchisees or partners to successfully address competition, merchandising and distribution challenges; and — the ability of our international franchisees or partners to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified store personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to grow our business and achieve our goals. Even if we succeed in establishing new stores, further developing our leased department and licensed brand relationships, and further expanding our international 16 relationships, we cannot assure that these initiatives will achieve planned revenue or profitability levels in the time periods estimated by us, or at all. If any of these initiatives fails to achieve or is unable to sustain acceptable revenue and profitability levels, we may incur significant costs. For example, in connection with our new broad-based partnership with Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. and its subsidiary, Buy Buy Baby, Inc., we discontinued operation of our 124 remaining leased departments in Babies“R”Us in October 2012 and opened leased departments in select buybuy BABY stores. Although we are confident that the new relationship with Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. and Buy Buy Baby, Inc. will be a profitable one for our Company and our stockholders, there is no guarantee of success. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely impacted at any time by a significant number of competitors. We operate in a highly competitive environment characterized by few barriers to entry. We compete against department stores, specialty retail chains, discount stores, independent retail stores and catalog and Internet-based retailers. Many of our competitors are larger and have substantially greater financial and other resources than us. Further, we do not typically advertise using television and radio media and thus do not reach customers through means our competitors may use. Our mid- and luxury-priced merchandise faces a highly fragmented competitive landscape that includes locally based, single unit retailers, as well as a handful of multi-unit maternity operations, none of which we believe have more than 10 stores nationwide. In the value-priced maternity apparel business, we face competition on a nationwide basis from retailers such as Gap, H&M, Old Navy, Target and Wal-Mart. In addition, with our exit from Babies“R”Us in late October 2012 (in connection with our broad-based partnership with Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. and its subsidiary, Buy Buy Baby, Inc.), in November 2012, Toys“R”Us, Inc. announced that it had entered into a partnership with Thyme Maternity, a Canada based company, for a collection of maternity apparel and accessories to be featured in approximately 150 Babies“R”Us stores in the United States. Substantially all of these competitors also sell maternity apparel on their websites. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected by this competition, including the potential for increased competition in the future. For example, the maternity apparel business has previously experienced oversupply conditions due to increased competition in the maternity apparel business, which resulted in a greater level of industry-wide markdowns and markdowns recognized by us on sales from our retail locations. There can be no assurance that these conditions will not occur again or worsen. Our relationships with third-party retailers may not be successful. We cannot guarantee successful results from or the continuation of our leased department and licensed brand relationships with third-party retailers such as Macy’s, Sears, Gordmans, buybuy BABY, Boscov’s, Century 21 and Kohl’s. Under our agreement with Kohl’s, subject to certain notice obligations, Kohl’s is not obligated to purchase any maternity apparel from us and we are not obligated to sell any maternity apparel to them. We do not control the pricing terms or the timing or degree of the markdowns at Kohl’s. Under our agreements with our retail partners, those partners do not make any promises or representations as to the potential amount of business we can expect from the sale of our product in their stores. For example, we discontinued offering maternity apparel in our 124 remaining Babies“R”Us locations in October 2012 in connection with our broad-based partnership with Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. and its subsidiary, Buy Buy Baby, Inc. The success of our leased department and licensed brand businesses is highly dependent on the actions and decisions of the third-party retailers, which are outside of our control. The retailers could limit the merchandise carried, close stores, go out of business or terminate their agreements with us. Our failure to properly manage our leased department and licensed brand businesses (including any failure by us in timely delivering goods to any third-party retailer or any failure to respond to the actions of, or changes in, business conditions at third-party retailers) would have a direct impact on the profitability and continuation of these relationships. Our business depends on sustained demand for maternity clothing and is sensitive to birth rates, women’s fashion trends, economic conditions and consumer spending. Our business depends upon sustained demand for maternity clothing. Our future performance will be subject to a number of factors beyond our control, including demographic changes, fashion trends, economic conditions and consumer spending. If demand for maternity clothing were to decline for any reason, such as a decrease in the number of pregnancies, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. For example, according to the United States Census Bureau and United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, births declined 1.1% in calendar 2011 compared to calendar 2010, declined 3.2% in calendar 2010 compared to calendar 2009, and declined a total of 8.4% from calendar 2007 to calendar 2012. If this trend were to continue it could negatively affect our business and results of operations. Additionally, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected if certain non-maternity women’s apparel fashions have a more pregnancy-friendly fit. For example, in the past, we were negatively impacted by the popularity of certain styles in the non-maternity women’s apparel market, such as trapeze and baby-doll dresses and tops, which can more readily fit a pregnant woman early in her pregnancy than typical non-maternity fashions. Downturns, or the expectation of a downturn, in general economic conditions could materially and adversely affect consumer spending patterns, our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the specialty apparel retail business historically has been subject to cyclical variations. Consumer purchases of specialty apparel products, including maternity wear, may decline during recessionary periods and at other times when disposable income is lower. Declines in consumer spending patterns may have a more negative effect on apparel retailers than some other retailers. Therefore, we may not be able to maintain our historical sales and earnings, or remain as profitable, if there 17 is a decline in consumer spending patterns. A prolonged economic downturn could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. We may not be successful in maintaining and expanding our marketing partnership programs. We cannot guarantee successful results from the continuation of, or the expansion of, our marketing partnership programs which utilize our opt-in customer database and various in-store marketing initiatives. The success of our marketing partnership programs is highly dependent on the actions and decisions of the third-party consumer products companies to whom we provide these services. Should these third-party consumer products companies decide to limit the services provided by us, go out of business or terminate their agreements with us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Further, there is no guarantee that we will be able to expand this part of our business through agreements with new third parties. In addition, our ability to provide the services is dependent on our successful collection of opt-in customer data as well as applicable law relating to the collection and transfer of the personally identifiable information of our customers. A failure on our part to collect adequate amounts of customer data or any change in state, local or federal law which further restricts our ability to collect this information could cause us to terminate or limit the services we can provide to the third-party consumer products companies and would ultimately adversely affect our revenue from these relationships. Further, although we believe there may be an opportunity to more actively market our full customer database to a much broader range of consumer products and services companies that market to families with children, we cannot guarantee that these efforts will be successful. We may not successfully minimize the disruption to our operations that may result from our planned relocations of our headquarters and distribution facilities, and/or we may not actually collect the incentive package benefits offered to us in connection with such relocations. In September 2013 we announced our plans to relocate our corporate headquarters and distribution operations from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania to southern New Jersey. Our corporate office operations (which are currently split between our headquarters at North 5th Street in Philadelphia and our offices in the Philadelphia Navy Yard) will move 12 miles from the current North 5th Street headquarters facility to a completely renovated 74,000 square foot Class A office building in Moorestown, New Jersey. We expect this move to occur in Fall 2014. Our distribution operations (which are currently split between our main distribution center at North 5th Street in Philadelphia and our distribution facility in the Philadelphia Navy Yard) will move approximately 23 miles from the current North 5th Street distribution center to a new 406,000 square foot build-to-suit distribution center to be built in Florence Township, New Jersey. We expect this move to occur in early to mid 2015. Although we will make every effort to minimize the operational disruption caused by these relocations, we cannot provide any assurance that these efforts will be successful. Any material disruption to our overall operations that results from this relocation could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. To help us offset the costs of these relocations, the Board of the New Jersey Economic Development Authority approved us for an incentive package of $40 million in benefits, over a 10-year period, from the State of New Jersey under the Grow New Jersey Assistance Program. In order to receive the benefits of the incentive package we need to meet certain levels of annual jobs and other requirements. If we do not meet these job levels or other requirements on an annual basis, we will not receive some or all of the benefits. Our inability to receive these benefits could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. We require a significant amount of cash to pay quarterly dividends as well as to fund our operations and future growth. Our ability to pay quarterly dividends, as well as to fund our operations and future growth, depends upon our ability to generate cash. Our success in generating cash depends upon the results of our operations and the amount of cash we use in investing activities, as well as upon general economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. An inability to generate sufficient cash could have important consequences. For example, it could: — increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; — limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; — place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors; — limit our ability to borrow money; — make it more difficult for us to open new stores or improve or expand existing stores; — restrict our ability to pay dividends or make distributions to our stockholders; — require us to incur significant additional indebtedness; and — make it more difficult for us to pursue strategic acquisitions, alliances and partnerships. 18 Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. Any borrowings under our revolving credit facility, which could significantly increase in the future, would bear interest at a variable rate. We have exposure for the variable interest rate borrowings under our revolving credit facility. As a result, an increase in interest rates could result in a substantial increase in interest expense, especially if our borrowings under our revolving credit facility increase. We are heavily dependent on our management information systems and our ability to maintain and upgrade these systems from time to time. The efficient operation of our business is heavily dependent on our internally developed management information systems (“MIS”). In particular, we rely on point-of-sale terminals, which provide information to our customized merchandise analysis and planning system used to track sales and inventory, and we rely on our Internet websites through which we sell merchandise to our customers. The merchandise analysis and planning system helps integrate our design, manufacturing, distribution and financial functions, and also provides daily financial and merchandising information. Although our software programs and data are backed up and securely stored off-site, our servers and computer systems are located at our headquarters in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. These systems and our operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: — fire, flood and other natural disasters; — power loss, computer systems failures, Internet and telecommunications or data network failures; — operator negligence, and improper operation by or supervision of employees; — physical and electronic loss of data or security breaches, misappropriation and similar events; — computer viruses; and — any failure to minimize any operational disruption in our systems caused by the planned relocation of our corporate headquarters and distribution operations from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania to southern New Jersey. Any disruption in the operation of our MIS, the loss of employees knowledgeable about such systems or our failure to continue to effectively modify such systems could interrupt our operations or interfere with our ability to monitor inventory, which could result in reduced net sales and affect our operations and financial performance. In addition, any interruption in the operation of our Internet websites could cause us to lose sales due to the inability of customers to purchase merchandise from us through our websites during such interruption. We also need to ensure that our systems are consistently adequate to handle our anticipated business growth and are upgraded as necessary to meet our needs. The cost of any such system upgrades or enhancements could be significant. As a result, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if our servers and systems were inoperable, inaccessible, or inadequate. From time to time, we improve and upgrade our MIS and the functionality of our Internet websites. If we are unable to maintain and upgrade our systems or Internet websites, or to integrate new and updated systems or changes to our Internet websites in an efficient and timely manner, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. A cybersecurity incident could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. A cyber attack may bypass the security for our MIS causing an MIS security breach and leading to a material disruption of our MIS and/or the loss of business information and/or Internet sales. Such a cyber attack could result in any of the following: — theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of confidential data or intellectual property; — operational or business delays resulting from the disruption of MIS and subsequent clean-up and mitigation activities; — negative publicity resulting in reputation or brand damage with our customers, partners or industry peers; and — loss of sales generated through our Internet websites through which we sell merchandise to customers, to the extent these websites are affected by a cyber attack. As a result, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 19 As an apparel retailer, we rely on numerous third parties in the supply chain to produce and deliver the products that we sell, and our business may be negatively impacted by disruptions in the supply chain. If we lose the services of one or more of our significant suppliers or one or more of them fail to meet our product needs, we may be unable to obtain replacement merchandise in a timely manner. If our existing suppliers cannot meet our increased needs and we cannot locate alternative supply sources, we may be unable to obtain sufficient quantities of the most popular items at attractive prices, which could negatively impact our sales and results of operations. We obtain apparel and other merchandise from foreign sources, both purchased directly in foreign markets and indirectly through domestic vendors with foreign sources. To the extent that any of our vendors are located overseas or rely on overseas sources for a large portion of their products, any event causing a disruption of imports, including the imposition of import restrictions, could harm our ability to source product. This disruption could materially limit the merchandise that we would have available for sale and reduce our sales and earnings. The flow of merchandise from our vendors could also be materially and adversely affected by financial or political instability, or war, in or affecting any of the countries in which the goods we purchase are manufactured or through which they flow. Trade restrictions in the form of tariffs or quotas, embargoes and customs restrictions that are applicable to the products that we sell also could affect the import of those products and could increase the cost and reduce the supply of products available to us. Any material increase in tariff levels, or any material decrease in quota levels or available quota allocation, could negatively impact our business. Further, changes in tariffs or quotas for merchandise imported from individual foreign countries could lead us to shift our sources of supply among various countries. Any such shift we undertake in the future could result in a disruption of our sources of supply and/or an increase in product costs, and lead to a reduction in our sales and earnings. Supply chain security initiatives undertaken by the United States government that impede the normal flow of product could also negatively impact our business. In addition, decreases in the value of the United States dollar against foreign currencies could increase the cost of products that we purchase from overseas vendors. We also face a variety of other risks generally associated with relying on vendors that do business in foreign markets and import merchandise from abroad, such as: — political instability or the threat of terrorism, particularly in countries where our vendors source merchandise; — enhanced security measures at United States and foreign ports, which could delay delivery of imports; — imposition of new or supplemental duties, taxes and other charges on imports; — delayed receipt or non-delivery of goods due to the failure of foreign-source suppliers to comply with applicable import regulations; — delayed receipt or non-delivery of goods due to organized labor strikes or unexpected or significant port congestion at United States ports; and — local business practice and political issues, including issues relating to compliance with domestic or international labor standards, which may result in adverse publicity. The United States may impose new initiatives that adversely affect the trading status of countries where apparel is manufactured. These initiatives may include retaliatory duties or other trade sanctions that, if enacted, would increase the cost of products imported from countries where our vendors acquire merchandise. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We could be materially and adversely affected if our distribution operations are disrupted. To support our distribution of product throughout the world, we currently operate our main distribution facility and one significantly smaller distribution facility, both in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. We plan to relocate our distribution operations from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania to southern New Jersey. Our distribution operations (which are currently split between our main distribution center at North 5th Street in Philadelphia and our distribution facility in the Philadelphia Navy Yard) will move approximately 23 miles from the current North 5th Street distribution center to a new 406,000 square foot build-to-suit distribution center to be built in Florence Township, New Jersey. We expect this move to occur in early to mid 2015. Finished garments from contractors and other manufacturers are inspected and stored in our distribution facilities. We do not have other distribution facilities to support our distribution needs. If our main distribution facility were to shut down or otherwise become inoperable or inaccessible for any reason (such as, for example, due to natural disasters, like Hurricane Sandy, which affected our region in early fiscal 2013, or due to our failure to manage the distribution operations relocation with minimal disruption), we could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with the distribution of our products to our stores and to our third-party retailers during the time it takes to reopen or replace this facility. In light of our strategic emphasis on rapid replenishment as a competitive strength, a distribution disruption might have a disproportionately adverse effect on our operations and profitability relative to other retailers. In addition, the loss or material disruption of service from any of our shippers for any reason, whether due to freight difficulties, strikes, natural disaster or other difficulties at our principal transport providers or otherwise, could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. 20 We could be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to obtain sufficient raw materials or maintain satisfactory manufacturing arrangements. We do not own any manufacturing facilities and therefore depend on third parties to manufacture our products. We place our orders for production of merchandise and raw materials by purchase order and do not have any long-term contracts with any manufacturer or supplier. We compete with many other companies, many of which are larger and have substantially greater financial and other resources than us, for production facilities and raw materials. Furthermore, we have received in the past, and may receive in the future, shipments of products from manufacturers that fail to conform to our quality control standards or environmental standards. In such event, unless we are able to obtain replacement products in a timely manner, we may lose sales. We have no ability to control the environmental compliance (including compliance with climate change requirements) of these third-party manufacturers. If we fail to maintain favorable relationships with these third parties, or if we cannot obtain an adequate supply of quality raw materials on commercially reasonable terms, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in commodity prices could result in an increase in component costs, delivery costs and overall product costs. The results of our business operations could suffer due to significant increases or volatility in the prices of certain commodities, including but not limited to cotton, wool and other ingredients used in the production of fabric and accessories, as well as fuel, oil and natural gas. In addition, increases in the price of food and food commodities may result in increased labor rates related to textile and apparel production. Increases in prices of these commodities or other inflationary pressures may result in significant cost increases for our raw materials, product components and finished products, as well as increases in the cost of distributing merchandise to our retail locations and shipping products to our customers. For example, in the latter part of fiscal 2011 and for most of fiscal 2012, we experienced product cost of sales increases due, in part, to the increased cost of cotton as well as, to a lesser extent, increased labor rates in certain production countries. To the extent we are unable to offset any such increased costs through value engineering and similar initiatives, or through price increases, our profitability, cash flows and financial condition may be materially and adversely impacted. If we choose to increase prices to offset the increased costs, our unit sales volumes could be adversely impacted. Our stores are heavily dependent on the customer traffic generated by shopping malls. We depend heavily on locating our stores in successful shopping malls in order to generate customer traffic. We cannot control the development of new shopping malls, the availability or cost of appropriate locations within existing or new shopping malls or the success of existing or new mall stores. The success of all of our mall stores will depend, in part, on the ability of each mall’s anchor tenants, such as large department stores, other tenants and area attractions to generate consumer traffic in the vicinity of our stores, and the continuing popularity of malls as shopping destinations. Many traditional enclosed malls are experiencing significantly lower levels of customer traffic than in the past, driven by overall poor economic conditions as well as the closure of certain mall anchor tenants. Sales volume and mall traffic may be materially and adversely affected by economic downturns in a particular area, the closing of anchor tenants or competition from non-mall retailers and other malls where we do not have stores. Our success depends on our ability to identify and rapidly respond to fashion trends. The apparel industry is subject to rapidly changing fashion trends and shifting consumer demands. Accordingly, our success depends on the priority that our target customers place on fashion and our ability to anticipate, identify and capitalize on emerging fashion trends. Our ability or our failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately to changes in styles or trends could lead to, among other things, excess inventories and higher markdowns, as well as the decreased appeal of our brands. Particular fashion trends, or an inaccuracy of our forecasts regarding fashion trends, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, in the past we were negatively impacted from the popularity of certain styles in the non-maternity women’s apparel market, such as trapeze and baby-doll dresses and tops, which can more readily fit a pregnant woman early in her pregnancy than typical non-maternity fashions. The failure to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified senior management personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Our business requires disciplined execution at all levels of our organization in order to timely deliver and display fashionable merchandise in appropriate quantities in our stores. This execution requires experienced and talented management. We currently have a management team with a great deal of experience with us and in apparel retailing. If we were to lose the benefit of this experience, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, as our business expands, we believe that our success will depend greatly on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. There is a high level of competition for personnel in the retail industry. Like most retailers, we experience significant employee turnover rates, particularly among store sales associates and managers, and our continued growth will require us to hire and train even more new personnel. We therefore must continually attract, hire and train new 21 personnel to meet our staffing needs. We constantly compete for qualified personnel with companies in our industry and in other industries. A significant increase in the turnover rate among our sales associates and managers would increase our recruiting and training costs and could decrease our operating efficiency and productivity. If we are unable to retain our employees or attract, train, assimilate or retain other skilled personnel in the future, we may not be able to service our customers as effectively, which could impair our ability to increase sales and could otherwise harm our business. Our quarterly operating results and inventory levels may fluctuate significantly as a result of seasonality in our business. Our business, like that of other retailers, is seasonal. Results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for a full fiscal year. Quarterly results may fluctuate materially depending upon, among other things, increases or decreases in comparable sales, the timing of new retail location openings, the timing of retail location closings, net sales and profitability contributed by new retail locations, the timing of the fulfillment of purchase orders under our product, license brand and international business arrangements, adverse weather conditions, shifts in the timing of certain holidays and promotions, changes in inventory and production levels and the timing of deliveries of inventory, and changes in our merchandise mix. Our quarterly net sales have historically been highest in our third fiscal quarter, corresponding to the peak Spring selling season. Given the historically higher sales level in our third fiscal quarter and the relatively fixed nature of most of our operating expenses, we have typically generated a very significant percentage of our full year operating income and net income during our third fiscal quarter. Thus, any factors which result in a material reduction of our sales for the third quarter could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for our fiscal year as a whole. Seasonal fluctuations in sales also affect our inventory levels, as we usually order merchandise in advance of peak selling periods and sometimes before new fashion trends are confirmed by customer purchases. We must carry a significant amount of inventory, especially before the peak Spring selling season. If we are not successful in selling our inventory during this period, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to sell the excess inventory or we may not be able to sell the inventory at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If an independent contract manufacturer violates labor or other laws, or is accused of violating any such laws, or if their labor practices diverge from those generally accepted as ethical, it could harm our business and brand image. While we maintain policies and guidelines with respect to labor practices that independent manufacturers that produce goods for us are contractually required to follow, and while we have an independent firm and Company employees inspect certain manufacturing sites to monitor compliance, we cannot control the actions of such manufacturers or the public’s perceptions of them, nor can we assure that these manufacturers will conduct their businesses using ethical or legal labor practices. Apparel companies can be held jointly liable for the wrongdoings of the manufacturers of their products. While many of our independent manufacturers are routinely monitored by buying representatives, who assist us in the areas of compliance, garment quality and delivery, we do not control the manufacturers’ business practices or their employees’ employment conditions, and manufacturers act in their own interest which may be in a manner that results in negative public perceptions of us, and/or employee allegations against us, or court determinations that we are jointly liable. Violations of law by our importers, buying agents, independent manufacturers or distributors could result in delays in shipments and receipt of goods and could subject us to fines or other penalties, any of which could restrict our business activities, increase our operating expenses or cause our sales to decline. We may be unable to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property and may be subject to liability if we are alleged to have infringed on another party’s intellectual property. We believe that our trademarks, service marks and other intellectual property are important to our continued success and our competitive position due to their recognition with our customers. We devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks, service marks and other intellectual property. Although we actively protect our intellectual property, there can be no assurance that the actions that we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks, service marks and other intellectual property, including our rights in our management information systems and our proprietary rights in products for which we have applied for or received patent protection (for example, our Secret Fit Belly® innovation), will be adequate to prevent imitation of our marks, products or services by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of their trademarks, service marks or other proprietary rights. For example, in October 2012 we filed a lawsuit against Target Corporation and others for infringement of our proprietary patented Secret Fit Belly technology. There is no guarantee that this effort to enforce our rights will be successful. Also, others may assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other proprietary rights or may allege that we have or are infringing on their intellectual property rights and we may not be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our trademarks and proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. We cannot assure you that these registrations will prevent imitation of our name, merchandising concept, store design or private label merchandise, or the infringement of our other intellectual property rights by others. Imitation of our name, merchandising concept, store design or private label merchandise in a manner that projects lesser quality or carries a negative connotation of our brand image could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, the high expense in both prosecuting and defending against, and potential liability related to, alleged infringements of intellectual property rights could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 If climate change laws or regulations were to become applicable to our business, or if any third party with whom we have a leased department, licensed brand or international business relationship imposed reporting or other obligations on us due to their own compliance programs, we could incur additional expense to meet the requirements and our failure to comply could have a material adverse effect on our business. With respect to manufacturing within the United States, United States Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emission reporting rules require certain United States manufacturers to report GHG emissions. These rules are unlikely to require reporting of our third-party contract apparel manufacturers because the amount of emissions from retail stores and apparel manufacturing facilities are currently estimated to be below the EPA reporting threshold. With respect to manufacturing outside of the United States, international treaties, such as the Kyoto Protocol and the Copenhagen Protocol, do not currently require the countries in which our non-United States contract apparel manufacturers are located to control GHG emissions and it is unlikely that climate change requirements in the foreseeable future will require significant GHG emission reductions on our non-United States contract apparel manufacturers. Our manufacturers are required to follow all applicable laws, including climate change laws. If domestic or international laws or regulations were expanded to require GHG emission reporting or reduction by us or our third-party contract apparel manufacturers, or if we engage third-party contract manufacturers in countries that have existing GHG emission reporting or reduction laws or regulations, we would need to expend financial and other resources to comply with such regulations and/or monitor our third-party contract apparel manufacturers’ compliance with such regulations. In addition, we cannot control the actions of our third-party manufacturers or the public’s perceptions of them, nor can we assure that these manufacturers will conduct their businesses using climate change proactive or sustainable practices. Violations of climate change laws or regulations by third parties with whom we do business could result in negative public perception of us and/or delays in shipments and receipt of goods, and could subject us to fines or other penalties, any of which could restrict our business activities, increase our operating expenses or cause our sales to decline. Some retailers have adopted “sustainability” or other policies that encourage or require suppliers to report and/or reduce GHG emissions. No third party with whom we have a leased department, licensed brand or international franchise relationship currently requires us to report GHG emissions to them. However, we expect that certain of these third parties may do so in the future, which would require us to expend financial and other resources to comply with such requirements. In addition, if such requirements are imposed on us, our relationship with such third parties could be damaged if we were unable to comply. Changes in the health care regulatory environment could cause us to incur additional expense and our failure to comply with related legal requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business. In 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 were signed into law in the United States. This legislation expands health care coverage to many uninsured individuals and expands coverage to those already insured. The changes required by this legislation could cause us to incur additional health care and other costs. The costs and other effects of other new legal requirements cannot be determined with certainty. For example, new legislation or regulations may result in increased costs directly for our compliance or indirectly to the extent such requirements increase prices of goods and services because of increased compliance costs or reduced availability of raw materials. War or acts of terrorism or the threat of either may negatively impact availability of merchandise and otherwise adversely impact our business. In the event of war or acts of terrorism, or if either is threatened, our ability to obtain merchandise available for sale and consumer demand for our merchandise may be negatively affected. A substantial portion of our merchandise is imported from other countries. In addition, we not only generate sales in the United States and Canada through our own retail locations, but also in foreign countries through our international franchise relationships. If goods become difficult or impossible to import into the United States, and if we cannot obtain such merchandise from other sources at similar costs, our sales and profit margins may be materially and adversely affected. Further, if consumer demand in any country where we do business is negatively affected, our sales in such country would suffer. In the event that commercial transportation is curtailed or substantially delayed, our business may be materially and adversely impacted, as we may have difficulty shipping merchandise to our main distribution facility, retail locations, and licensed brand and international business partners, as well as fulfilling Internet orders. The terms of our debt instruments impose financial and operating restrictions. Our credit facility contains restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long term best interests. These covenants limit or restrict, among other things, our ability to: — incur additional indebtedness; — pay dividends or make other distributions in respect of our equity securities, or purchase or redeem capital stock, or make certain investments; 23 — have our subsidiaries pay dividends, make loans or transfer assets to us; — sell assets, including the capital stock of our subsidiaries; — enter into any transactions with our affiliates; — transfer any capital stock of any subsidiary or permit any subsidiary to issue capital stock; — create liens; — enter into certain sale/leaseback transactions; — effect a consolidation or merger or transfer of all or substantially all of our assets; and — engage in other lines of business unless reasonably related to our existing business. These limitations and restrictions may materially and adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in our best interests. In addition, our ability to borrow under the credit facility is subject to borrowing base requirements. If we breach any of the covenants in our credit facility, we may be in default under our credit facility. If we default, the lender under our credit facility could declare all borrowings owed to them, including accrued interest and other fees, to be due and payable. Our charter documents contain certain anti-takeover provisions, and we are entitled to certain other protective provisions under Delaware law. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of the Company, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. We also have adopted a stockholder rights plan, commonly known as a “poison pill,” that entitles our stockholders to acquire additional shares of us, or a potential acquirer of us, at a substantial discount to their market value in the event of an attempted takeover. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition involving us that our stockholders may consider favorable by, among other things: — authorizing the issuance of preferred stock, the terms of which may be determined at the discretion of our Board of Directors; — restricting the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; and — establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at meetings. These provisions may also reduce the market value of our common stock. If we are unable to pay quarterly dividends at intended levels or if our Board of Directors decides to reduce the level of our dividend, our reputation and stock price may be harmed. Our quarterly cash dividend is currently $0.1875 per common share. The dividends declared and paid by us to date meet all requirements under the terms of our debt agreements and applicable law; however, any future payment of dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and the ability to pay any such future dividends, or to pay such dividends at the current level, will be based upon certain restrictive financial covenants, earnings, capital requirements and our financial condition, among other factors, at the time any such dividend is considered. In addition, our ability or decision to pay dividends at all or at the current level may be subject to certain economic, financial, competitive and other factors (such as the level of taxation of dividends) that are beyond our control. Our Board of Directors may, at its discretion, decrease the intended level of dividends or entirely discontinue the payment of dividends at any time. Any failure to pay dividends after we have announced our intention to do so may negatively impact our reputation and investor confidence in us, and may also negatively impact our stock price. The increase in our sales and marketing efforts that target markets outside the United States and Canada expose us to additional risks associated with international operations. Although an immaterial amount of our sales are currently derived from international sales outside of Canada, we are actively seeking to expand our international presence, and we have franchise arrangements in the Middle East, South Korea and Mexico. We may not be successful in these efforts. In November 2013, we announced that we were unable to reach mutual agreement on acceptable renewal terms with our franchisee for India and, thus, this franchise relationship, which began in April 2009, will end in March 2014, however we do not expect that the discontinuation of this franchise relationship will have a significant impact on our financial results. International operations and sales subject us to risks and challenges that we would otherwise not face if we conducted our business only in the United States. For example, we may depend on third parties to market our products through foreign sales channels, and we may be challenged by laws and business practices favoring local competitors. In addition, our ability to succeed in 24 foreign markets will depend on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We must also adapt our pricing structure to address different pricing environments and may face difficulty in enforcing revenue collection internationally. Emerging markets are a significant focus of our international growth strategy. The developing nature of these markets presents a number of risks. Deterioration of social, political, labor or economic conditions in a specific country or region and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations may also materially and adversely affect our operations or financial results or those of our franchisees. Operations outside the United States may be affected by changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments. To the extent we achieve significant sales outside of the United States in the future, we may have significant exposure to fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates. Although our initial international strategy has consisted primarily of franchising, licensing or similar arrangements with foreign partners, for certain markets we may consider direct investment in international operations, such as by entering into joint ventures or developing our own operations in certain countries. This approach will expose us to the risks identified above with respect to franchising as well as to the risk of loss of our direct investment (such as, for example, loss on investments made through capital contributions in a joint venture, and/or in connection with capital expenditures to develop our own operations in certain countries). Further, the risk of direct investment in a joint venture in which we are a minority owner presents the unique risk of having a significant investment in a business that is controlled by, and effectively operated by, an unrelated third party. New regulations related to conflict minerals could adversely impact our business. The SEC has promulgated final rules pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act regarding disclosure of the use of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, known as conflict minerals, included in components of products either manufactured by public companies or for which public companies have contracted to manufacture. These new rules require due diligence to determine whether such minerals originated from the Democratic Republic of Congo (the “DRC”) or an adjoining country and whether such minerals helped finance the armed conflict in the DRC. The first conflict minerals report required by the new rules is due by May 31, 2014 and annually thereafter. While we do not manufacture products, we may be deemed to contract to manufacture products. There will be costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including costs to determine the origin of conflict minerals used in any products we are deemed to contract to manufacture. In addition, the implementation of these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. Also, we may face reputational challenges if the due diligence procedures we implement do not enable us to verify the origins for all conflict minerals or to determine that such minerals are DRC conflict-free. We could have failures in our system of internal controls causing us to inaccurately report our financial results or to fail to prevent fraud. We maintain a documented system of internal controls which is reviewed and monitored by management, who meet regularly with our Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. We believe we have a well-designed system to maintain adequate internal controls over the business. We cannot assure you that there will not be any control deficiencies in the future. Should we become aware of any control deficiencies, we would report them to the Audit Committee and, if significant, recommend prompt remediation. We devote significant resources to document, test, monitor and improve our internal controls and will continue to do so; however, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that our controls are adequate in the future or that adequate controls will be effective in preventing fraud. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. Any failures in the effectiveness of our internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results or cause us to fail to meet reporting obligations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 