ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not currently believe are material may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could suffer, and the trading price of our common stock and our market capitalization could decline. RISKS RELATED TO THE MERGER WITH ASML The market price of ASML ordinary shares may decline following the completion of the Merger or during the period of time between the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the date on which our stockholders are entitled to receive ASML ordinary shares pursuant to the Merger Agreement. At the effective time of the Merger, each issued and outstanding share of our common stock will be converted into the right to receive fixed consideration consisting of a fixed number of ASML ordinary shares and the cash consideration and, in lieu of fractional shares, an amount in cash equal to the product obtained by multiplying (i) the average of the last reported sales price of ASML ordinary shares, as reported on NASDAQ, on each of the last five trading days ending on the third trading day immediately preceding the closing date by (ii) the fraction of an ASML ordinary share to which such holder would otherwise be entitled. The stock consideration to be delivered to our stockholders under the Merger Agreement is fixed at 1.1502 ASML ordinary shares for each share of our common stock and will not be adjusted at any time to reflect changes in the market value of ASML ordinary shares. The market price of ASML ordinary shares may decline at any time following the completion of the Merger if, among other reasons: • the synergies expected by ASML and the Company are not achieved; • the effect of the Merger on the financial results of ASML is not consistent with the expectations of financial analysts or investors; • ASML shareholders sell a significant number of ASML ordinary shares after consummation of the Merger, or our stockholders who receive ASML ordinary shares under the Merger Agreement sell a significant number of ASML ordinary shares in the open market; or • ASML’s financial results fail to meet the expectations of financial analysts or investors for any reason. 12 Table of Contents In addition, the market price of the ASML ordinary shares may fluctuate or decline during the period of time between the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the date on which our stockholders entitled to receive ASML ordinary shares pursuant to the Merger Agreement actually receive ASML ordinary shares. These fluctuations may be caused by changes in the businesses, operations, results and prospects of either the Company or ASML, market expectations of the likelihood that the Merger will be completed and the timing of the completion, general market and economic conditions or other factors. The actual market value of the ASML ordinary shares, when received by our stockholders, will depend on the market value of those ASML ordinary shares on that date. This market value may be less than the value of the ASML ordinary shares at the time the Merger Agreement was signed or on the date of the Special Meeting. The Company and ASML may be unable to obtain the regulatory approvals required to complete the Merger. Under the HSR Act, the Merger may not be completed until notification and report forms have been filed with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (the “FTC”), and the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice (the “Antitrust Division”), and the applicable waiting period has expired or been terminated. The Company and ASML filed our respective notification and report forms under the HSR Act with the FTC and the Antitrust Division on November 9, 2012. Each party subsequently received a second request from the Antitrust Division in connection with the Merger. ASML and the Company are continuing to work with the Antitrust Division and working to comply promptly with these second requests. At any time before or after the completion of the Merger, the Antitrust Division, the FTC, or a state attorney general could take any action under U.S. federal or state antitrust laws as it deems necessary or desirable in the public interest, including seeking to enjoin the Merger in federal court or seeking the divestiture of substantial assets of ASML, the Company, or our respective subsidiaries and affiliates. State attorneys general and private parties may also bring legal actions under U.S. federal or state antitrust laws under certain circumstances. There can be no assurance that a challenge to the Merger on antitrust grounds will not be made or, if a challenge is made, of the result of the challenge. Clearances and consents or the expiration or termination of applicable waiting periods under competition laws in Germany, Israel, Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan also are conditions to the Merger. On December 17, 2012, the required clearances were received under the competition laws in Germany. On February 13, 2013, the required clearances were received under the competition laws in Israel. In addition, ASML and the Company have agreed that the Merger is also conditioned upon the favorable review of the Merger by the Committee on Foreign Investments in the United States (“CFIUS”). This condition was satisfied on January 3, 2013, when CFIUS notified the Company and ASML that there are no unresolved national security concerns with respect to the Merger, and that CFIUS review was therefore concluded. The Merger is subject to a number of conditions beyond our control. Failure to complete the Merger within the expected time frame or at all could adversely affect our future business and financial results and our stock price. Completion of the Merger is subject to certain conditions, including, among others: (i) the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, (ii) receipt of certain consents and approvals from competition regulators in other jurisdictions, , (iii) the absence of any governmental order, law, or legal restraint prohibiting the consummation of the Merger, and (iv) the listing of the ASML ordinary shares to be issued to the Company’s stockholders in the Merger on NASDAQ having been authorized. Additionally, ASML is not required to complete the Merger if there is any pending action or proceeding by any governmental entity of competent jurisdiction challenging or seeking to make illegal, to delay materially or otherwise directly or indirectly to prohibit the consummation of the Merger. The obligation of each party to consummate the Merger is also conditioned upon the accuracy of the other party’s representations and warranties, the absence of a material adverse effect, and the other party having performed in all material respects its obligations under the Merger Agreement. 13 Table of Contents We cannot predict whether and when these conditions will be satisfied. If one or more of these conditions is not satisfied, and as a result, we do not complete the Merger, or in the event the Merger is delayed for any other reason, our business may be harmed because: • management’s and our employees’ attention may be diverted from our day-to-day business because matters related to the Merger may require substantial commitments of their time and resources; • we may lose key employees; • our relationships with customers, partners and suppliers may be harmed as a result of the Merger as well as uncertainties with regard to the combined company’s plans with respect to our products, employees and business; • we have agreed to restrict certain of our activities pending the consummation of the Merger; and • certain costs related to the Merger, such as legal and accounting fees and reimbursement of certain expenses, are payable by us whether or not the Merger is completed. Our stock price may also fluctuate significantly based on announcements by ASML and other third-parties or us regarding the Merger, or based on market perceptions of the likelihood of us obtaining regulatory approval of the Merger. Such announcements may lead to perceptions in the market that the Merger may not be completed, which could cause our stock price to fluctuate or decline. In addition, if the Merger Agreement is terminated our stock price could decline significantly. Any of these events could harm our results of operations and financial condition and could cause a decline in the price of our common stock, particularly if the Merger does not close. Our executive officers and directors have interests in the Merger that may be different from, or in addition to, the interests of our stockholders generally. Our executive officers and directors have interests in the Merger that may be different from, or in addition to, the interests of our stockholders generally. These interests include: • some of our executives who are parties to change in control agreements with us may become entitled to receive severance benefits, including vesting of their unvested equity, upon or after the closing of the Merger in the event of their qualified termination of employment; • equity awards held by our outside directors that are unvested at the closing of the Merger will accelerate upon the closing of the Merger; and • certain of our executive officers may enter into employment agreements with ASML or the surviving corporation that would provide for continued employment, and payments and benefits, to these executives following the Merger. Our Board of Directors was aware of these interests at the time it approved the Merger and the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. These interests may cause our directors and executive officers to view the Merger differently and more favorably than our shareholders may view it. The Company and ASML will incur transaction and integration costs in connection with the Merger. ASML and the Company have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant costs in connection with the Merger, including the fees of their respective professional advisors. ASML also will incur integration and restructuring costs following the completion of the Merger as our operations are integrated with ASML’s operations. The synergies anticipated to arise from the Merger may not be achieved in the near term or at all, and if achieved, may not be sufficient to offset the costs associated with the Merger. Unanticipated costs, or the failure to achieve expected synergies, may have an adverse impact on the results of operations of the combined company following the completion of the Merger. 14 Table of Contents Failure to timely complete the Merger could disrupt the Company’s and ASML’s business plans and operations. Although we anticipate that the Merger will close in the first half of 2013, the transaction is subject to governmental regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. The Company’s and ASML’s inability to complete the Merger on the expected schedule likely would disrupt our respective operations and require us to revise our respective business plans, and otherwise could have a material adverse effect on each company’s business and on the trading price of ASML ordinary shares and our common stock. Moreover, if the Merger is not completed, we will be subject to several risks, including having to pay certain costs relating to the Merger and diverting the focus of our management team from pursuing other opportunities that could be beneficial to us, without realizing any of the benefits that might have resulted had the Merger been completed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and on the trading price of our common stock. ASML and the Company may not achieve the expected benefits of the transaction. ASML and the Company entered into the Merger Agreement with the expectation that the transaction will result in various benefits, including with respect to the development of EUV technologies. Some of those benefits may not be achieved or, if achieved, may not be achieved in the time frame in which they are expected. Whether the combined company will actually realize these anticipated benefits depends on future events and circumstances, some of which are beyond the parties’ control. EUV sources are still under development, and it is not certain that the combined company will be able to introduce commercial EUV systems on time or at all. In addition, future growth in revenues, earnings and cash flow will be partly dependent on future economic conditions and conditions in the semiconductor industry. Also, the potential synergies that ASML and the Company anticipate, including the expectation that the Merger will make EUV development more efficient, may not be realized. In addition, other risk factors discussed below may prevent the achievement of the expected advantages of the Merger. ASML’s inability to effectively integrate our business and operations with its own could disrupt its operations and force ASML to incur unanticipated costs. ASML’s ability to integrate our operations with its own will be important to the future success of the combined company. Successful integration is subject to numerous factors beyond ASML’s control, including adverse general and regional economic conditions, general industry trends and competition. ASML’s future performance will depend, in part, on ASML’s ability to effectively integrate our operations with its own. The failure to do so could disrupt ASML’s ongoing business, force ASML to incur unanticipated costs and adversely affect the trading price of ASML ordinary shares. If ASML is unable to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger due to its inability to address the challenges of integrating our business or for any other reason, it could have a material adverse effect on the combined company’s financial condition and results of operations and require significant additional time on the part of its senior management dedicated to attempting to resolve integration issues. If ASML is unable to retain key Company and/or ASML personnel after the Merger is completed, ASML’s business may suffer. The success of the Merger will depend in part on ASML’s ability to retain key personnel currently employed by ASML and the Company. There is no assurance that ASML will be able to retain key employees of either ASML or the Company after the Merger. Current and prospective employees of ASML and the Company may experience uncertainty about their future roles with their company until after the Merger is completed. This may adversely affect the ability of both companies to attract and retain key personnel. If key employees terminate their employment, or if insufficient numbers of employees are retained to maintain effective operations, management’s attention might be diverted from successfully integrating our operations to hiring suitable replacements, and ASML’s business might suffer. In addition, ASML might not be able to locate suitable replacements for any key employees that leave ASML or Cymer. 15 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY Our revenue and operating results from quarter to quarter and year to year have varied in the past and our future operating results may continue to fluctuate significantly. Factors that contribute to fluctuations in our revenue and operating results include: • global demand for semiconductors in general and, in particular, for leading edge devices with smaller circuit geometries; • utilization rates of light sources by our chipmaker customers and pulse usage which affect our installed base products revenue and costs; • cyclicality in the market for semiconductor manufacturing equipment; • rates at which our chipmaker customers take delivery of photolithography tools from our lithography tool manufacturer customers; • rates at which lithography tool manufacturer customers take delivery of light source systems from us; • timing and size of orders from our customers; • the ability of our customers to pay for products purchased from us; • our ability to manage customer satisfaction and product reliability, and to provide effective field support to our customers; • variability in the amount and timing of parts replacement costs under our contracts and service agreements, including our OnPulse contracts; • changing or adverse global economic conditions, including energy prices, inflation, deflation, recession, unemployment, consumer confidence and demand, turmoil in the credit markets and financial services industry, political instability, and credit availability and their potential effects on our customers, suppliers, ability to sell products, and investments; • improved or reduced market penetration by our competitors; • demand for reduced product lead times from our customers; • the mix of light source models, and the level of installed base products revenue in our total revenue; • changes in the price and profitability of our products; • our ability to develop and implement new technologies and introduce new products that meet our customers’ needs, in particular, EUV sources; • research and development costs incurred to develop new technologies; • demand for our EUV sources; • our ability to manage our manufacturing and inventory requirements, including our inventory levels and controls at our widely dispersed operations; • natural events such as severe weather and earthquakes in the locations in which we, our customers or our suppliers operate; • the financial condition of our suppliers which, if negative, could affect their ability to supply us with the parts that we need to manufacture our products; • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and possible protectionist measures in the countries in which we do business; • our investments in marketable securities; • changes in our effective tax rate; 16 Table of Contents • intellectual property protection; and • potential impairments to our goodwill or long-lived assets. Revenue from installed base products has grown as a percentage of our total revenue. The revenue from the operation of our installed base of light source systems depend on the rate at which our customers use these light source systems, the rate of growth of our installed base, and the mix of pulses from our various light source models. Our operating results for a particular period may be adversely affected if our customers reduce usage rates, or change their buying patterns, or if we incur higher parts replacement or service costs. Because we sell a limited number of light source systems, the precise timing for recognizing revenue from an order may have a significant effect on our total revenue for a particular period. As is the practice in our industry, our customers may cancel or reschedule orders with little or no penalty. Orders expected in one quarter could shift to another period due to changes in the anticipated timing of our customers’ purchase decisions or rescheduled delivery dates requested by our customers. Our operating results for a particular quarter or year may be adversely affected if our customers cancel or reschedule orders, or if we cannot fill orders timely due to unexpected delays in manufacturing, testing, shipping, or product acceptance or due to an unexpected material surge in demand. Our light source systems used in a production environment generate installed base product revenue based on system usage, which may also vary period to period. Additionally, we may be required to defer revenue associated with contracts that contain multiple deliverables. We manage our expense levels based, in large part, on expected future revenue. As a result, if our actual revenue decreases below the level we expect, or we are not successful in aligning our manufacturing cost structure with decreasing production levels, our operating results will be adversely affected. As a result of these or other factors, we could fail to achieve our expectations as to future revenue, gross profit and gross margin, operating income, net income, earnings per share, and cash flows. Our failure to meet the performance expectations set and published by external sources could result in a sudden and significant drop in the price of our stock, particularly on a short-term basis, and could negatively affect the value of any investment in our stock. Our business depends on the semiconductor and the semiconductor capital equipment industries, which are volatile and unpredictable. We derive the majority of our revenue from our lithography tool manufacturer customers who, as original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”), incorporate our light source systems in photolithography tools that they sell to semiconductor manufacturers, or chipmakers, and from our chipmaker customers who purchase installed base products directly from us in support of their light source systems. Like us, our OEM customers depend on market demand for their products from the chipmakers. This market demand can be volatile and unpredictable and can affect our ability to accurately predict future revenue and, therefore, our ability to manage our future expense levels. When cyclical fluctuations result in lower than expected revenue levels, operating results may be adversely affected and cost reduction actions may be necessary in order for us to remain competitive and financially stable. During a down cycle or slowdown, we must adjust our cost and expense structure to prevailing market conditions while maintaining our longer term strategies and motivating and retaining our key employees. In contrast, during periods of rapid growth, we must quickly increase manufacturing capacity and personnel to meet our customers’ needs. We can provide no assurance that these objectives can be met in a timely manner in response to industry cycles. We are not able to predict with any certainty the duration of any industry cycle or the timing or order of magnitude of any recovery from a down cycle or slowdown. Downturns in the semiconductor industry often result in decreases in demand for semiconductor manufacturing equipment, including the photolithography tools that our OEM customers produce. Downturns in the semiconductor industry have generally had severe effects on the demand for semiconductor manufacturing equipment and to a lesser extent, the associated installed base products. Fluctuating levels of investment by chipmakers and resulting pricing volatility will continue to materially affect our aggregate bookings, revenue and operating results. Even during periods of reduced revenue, we believe we must continue to invest in research and 17 Table of Contents development and maintain extensive ongoing worldwide customer support capabilities to meet our customers’ needs and to remain competitive. Continued spending to further these objectives may temporarily harm our financial results. Semiconductor industry downturns and slowdowns will likely continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. While revenue from installed base products has grown as a percentage of our total revenue, we continue to derive a significant percentage of our revenue from the sales of light source systems. Market conditions in the semiconductor industry and our OEM customers’ production efficiency can cause them to expand or reduce their orders for new light source systems as they try to manage their inventories and production requirements. We continue to work closely with our OEM customers to better understand these issues. However, we cannot guarantee that we will be successful in understanding our OEM customers’ inventory management or production requirements or that our OEM customers will not build up an excess inventory of light source systems. If our OEM customers retain an excess inventory of light source systems, our revenue could be reduced in future periods as the excess inventory is utilized, which could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. If our OEM customers demand shorter product lead times to improve their inventory and cash positions, our inventory management and cash position may be negatively affected, which may adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Our EUV sources are still under development and not yet capable of supporting the commercial production of integrated circuits; Our EUV sources could fail to meet customer specifications or not be delivered on time. We are investing significant financial and other resources to develop EUV source technology for chip manufacturing. These expenditures are reflected in our research and development expenses in our consolidated statements of operations, as well as inventory and property, plant and equipment in our consolidated balance sheets. As of December 31, 2012, we have shipped, received customer acceptance and recorded revenue for six EUV 3100 pilot sources. We also received orders for our next generation EUV 3300 sources. We currently record revenue associated with EUV sources when customer acceptance is received equal to amounts that are fixed and determinable at the date of acceptance. Our EUV sources are still under development and not yet capable of supporting the commercial production of integrated circuits. The technology underlying EUV is extremely complex, and we have experienced some delays that have put us behind schedule in our EUV source development. We may not be able to introduce commercial EUV systems on time, or at all. If we are not able to meet customer specifications, or have reliability or performance problems, or if the pilot sources and eventually commercial systems do not meet customer specifications or are not introduced on time, or if our inventory balances exceed the net realizable value under the related contracts, or if a competitor’s source is selected over our source, we may experience any or all of the following: the need to record impairment charges to our inventory and/or property, plant and equipment, reduced orders, order cancellations, higher manufacturing costs, delays in acceptance of and payment for new products, product rejections, and additional service and warranty expenses. These risks could also damage our reputation among the initial adopters of EUV source technology and limit our ability to penetrate the market. For example, we have entered into a supply agreement for EUV sources with ASML, one of our significant customers for DUV light sources. Significant setbacks in our EUV program, or disagreement with ASML regarding its specifications for commercial systems, could impact the amount and timing of purchases of DUV light sources by ASML. Any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. 18 Table of Contents A significant percentage of our revenue is derived from sales to a limited number of customers, and if we are not able to retain these customers, or they reschedule, reduce or cancel orders, or delay or default on payments, we may experience material adverse effects on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. ASML and Nikon, two large companies that dominate the photolithography tool business and Hynix and Samsung, two of our chipmaker customers that purchase our installed base products, accounted for the following percentages of our revenue during the periods indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2012 2011 2010 ASML 23 % 35 % 30 % Nikon 13 % 11 % 15 % Hynix 11 % 8 % 8 % Samsung 11 % 10 % 10 % Total 58 % 64 % 63 % We expect that sales to these customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenue in the foreseeable future. None of our customers are obligated to purchase a minimum number of our products in the aggregate or during any particular period. We can provide no assurance that any of our customers will continue to purchase our products at past or current levels. Sales to any of these customers may be affected by many factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • changes in global economic or market conditions affecting the semiconductor or the photolithography tool industries; • our ability to develop and introduce new products, including EUV sources, that meet a customer’s needs and specifications; • a change in a customer’s competitive position in its industry; • a customer experiencing production problems or disruption for a variety of reasons, including but not limited to work stoppages, terrorism, political turmoil, fire, earthquake, energy shortages, flooding or other natural disasters; • a decision to purchase light sources, silicon crystallization tools or other products from other suppliers; • a change in a customer’s production or utilization rate; and • a decline in a customer’s financial condition. These companies accounted for the following percentages of our total accounts receivable at the dates indicated: December 31, 2012 2011 ASML 4 % 22 % Nikon 15 % 15 % Hynix 18 % 13 % Samsung 6 % 5 % Total 43 % 55 % We believe there is limited credit risk exposure for us with these companies who continue to demonstrate sound creditworthiness. However, our ability to generate future revenue and collect accounts receivable from them is dependent on their ongoing financial condition and liquidity. 19 Table of Contents The loss of any significant business from, or production problems or disruption due to natural disasters for, any one of these customers may have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. The majority of our revenue is derived from selling our light source systems and supporting the installed base of light source systems being used in production. We expect sales of our light source systems, including KrF and ArF systems, and the products in support of the installed base of light source systems to continue to account for a majority of our revenue in the near term. Continued market acceptance of our light source systems and installed base products is, therefore, critical to our future success. The rate at which chipmakers adopt light sources may vary, for reasons including: • performance of ArF immersion-specific resists; • potential shortages of specialized materials used in DUV optics; • the productivity of double-patterning ArF lithography tools; • our ability to develop and introduce an EUV source that meets customer specifications and our customers’ and chipmakers’ adoption of our EUV technology; • consolidation of chipmakers; and • the level of demand for chips with ever-smaller feature sizes. We cannot guarantee that these factors can or will be overcome or that the demand for our light source systems and installed base products will not be materially reduced. The demand for our light source systems and installed base products, and therefore our operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: • a decline in demand for our customers’ photolithography tools; • a decline in chipmaker light source utilization rates or retirement of light sources in our installed base; • a failure to achieve continued market acceptance of our products; • a failure to manage customer satisfaction, product reliability, or maintain the effectiveness of direct field support; • a failure to release enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis or to successfully develop and introduce EUV sources that meet customer specifications; • a failure to meet certain performance specifications on EUV sources; • a deterioration in global economic conditions; • the introduction of one or more improved versions of light sources by our competitors; and • technological changes that we are unable to address with our products. We depend on a few key suppliers for purchasing components and subassemblies that are included in our products. We purchase a limited number of components and subassemblies included in our light source systems and installed base products from a single supplier or a small group of suppliers. There may also be single source suppliers that we are not aware of for components of our purchased subassemblies. To reduce the risk associated with these suppliers, we have supply agreements in place and carry a strategic inventory of these components. Strategic inventories are managed as a percentage of future demand. In some cases, we procure components through distributors with access to multiple suppliers to minimize the risk of single-sourced components. In 20 Table of Contents addition, we contract for the manufacture of various subassemblies of our products and depend on our contract manufacturers to deliver to our required specifications, schedule, and quality standards. Further, some of our suppliers have specialized in supplying equipment or manufacturing services to semiconductor equipment manufacturers and, therefore, are susceptible to industry fluctuations and subject to the same risks and uncertainties as we are regarding the ability to respond to changing market and global economic conditions. Because many of these suppliers reduce their workforce in an industry downturn and rehire in an upturn, they may not be able to meet our requirements or respond quickly enough as an upturn begins and gains momentum. Due to the nature of our product development requirements, these key suppliers must rapidly advance their own technologies and production capabilities in order to support the introduction schedule of our new products. These suppliers may not be able to provide new modules and subassemblies when they are needed to satisfy our manufacturing and delivery schedules. These suppliers may also be adversely affected by economic conditions, which could result in a lack of available capital and limit their ability to access such capital, if needed, to fund their operations. In addition, if we cannot purchase enough of these materials, components or subassemblies, or if these items do not meet our quality standards, there could be delays or reductions in our product shipments, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We depend on the introduction of new products for our success, and we are subject to risks associated with rapid technological change. The development, introduction and support of new products in a competitive business environment are complex processes and could be expensive. New or improved products may lead to higher costs and perhaps reduced profits. Rapid technological changes in semiconductor manufacturing processes subject us to increased pressure to develop technological advances which enable such processes. We believe that our future success depends in part upon our ability to develop, manufacture, and support new light source products with improved capabilities on a timely basis and to continue to enhance our existing product and process capabilities. Due to the risks inherent in transitioning to new products, we must forecast accurate demand for new products while managing the transition from established products. After our chipmaker customers have built their capacity to levels appropriate to meet existing demand, their demand for our light source products will depend, in part, on their sales forecasts, their estimates regarding the duration and magnitude of the current industry cycle and whether their projected manufacturing process yields will enable ongoing investments at a suitable level of capacity. To provide our customers with more productive and lower cost of operation systems, our existing light source systems and their process capabilities must be enhanced, and we must develop and manufacture new products, such as EUV sources, to continue to grow our business. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to grow our business. We may not be able to develop and introduce new sources, products or enhancements to our existing products and processes in a timely or cost effective manner that satisfies customer needs or achieves market acceptance. Development of new sources, products and enhancements to existing products represent significant investments of our resources, and there is no guarantee that we will realize a return on these investments. Further, we may not be able to effectively integrate new sources, products and applications into our current operations. Any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Current technologies that are still being developed and commercialized, such as EUV, and future technologies such as nano-imprint lithography and certain maskless lithography techniques may render our existing light source systems and products obsolete. We must manage product transitions, as the introduction of new products could have a negative adverse effect on our sales of existing products. In the fourth quarter of 2012, in connection with the preparation of the year-end financial statements, we evaluated the demand for our display products. Based on this evaluation, we determined that the carrying value of assets in the display product business required adjustments consisting of a write-down to inventory of $48.2 million to properly reflect lower of cost or market and a $5.1 million impairment of equipment used in the manufacturing or research and development of display product tools. In addition, in the fourth quarter of 2012, we accrued expenses of $12.2 million relating to firm purchase commitments for inventory and research and 21 Table of Contents development costs that will no longer be utilized. For further discussion, see Note 15 “Segment and Geographic Information” and Note 18 “Subsequent Events” to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Global economic conditions could affect our revenue and operating results. A general weakening of, or declining corporate or consumer confidence in, the global economy, or a reduction in corporate or consumer spending, could delay or significantly decrease purchases of our products by our customers, which are driven in part by indirect consumer demand for the electronic devices that contain semiconductor chips. It could also decrease revenue from our installed base products by causing our chipmaker customers to reduce their usage rates. Our revenue and operating results will be affected by uncertain or changing economic and market conditions including inflation, deflation, prolonged weak consumer demand or other changes which may affect the principal markets in which we conduct business. If economic or market conditions in the United States or other key global markets deteriorate, we may experience material adverse effects on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Adverse economic and market conditions could also harm our business by negatively affecting the parties with whom we do business, including our business partners, our customers and our suppliers. These conditions could impair the ability of our customers to pay for products they have purchased from us. As a result, allowances for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable from our customers may increase. In addition, our suppliers may experience financial difficulties that could negatively affect their operations and their ability to supply us with the parts we need to manufacture our products. We face competition in the DUV and EUV lithography market and could face additional competition if other competitors enter the market. Our future performance depends, in part, upon our ability to continue to compete successfully worldwide. The principal elements of competition in our markets are the technical performance characteristics of light source products and the operating efficiency of the system, which is based on availability, reliability, performance efficiency, cost of ownership, and overall quality. We currently have one DUV light source competitor, Gigaphoton. Gigaphoton is a wholly owned subsidiary of Komatsu and is headquartered in Japan. Our customers have purchased products from Gigaphoton and have qualified Gigaphoton’s DUV light source systems for use with their products. Additionally, Gigaphoton’s DUV light sources have been qualified by a number of chipmakers in Europe, Japan, other regions in Asia and the United States, and Gigaphoton has an installed base of light source systems at chipmakers in these regions. We also face competition from Gigaphoton and Ushio, also headquartered in Japan, in the development of EUV source technology. Future competitors may develop systems and products that are competitive to our products. This competition may affect our ability to sell our products. Larger companies with substantially greater resources, such as other manufacturers of industrial light sources for advanced lithography, may attempt to sell competitive products to our customers. Potential competitors may also be attracted to our growing installed base of DUV light sources which represents a significant revenue stream for us, and they may attempt to supply replacement parts to our customer base. If any existing or future competitors gain market acceptance, we could lose market share and our growth could slow or decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. 22 Table of Contents We must effectively manage changes in our business. In order to respond to the business cycles of the semiconductor industry and overall economic conditions, we must constantly adjust our business plan and cost structure. As the semiconductor equipment industry cycle moves between contraction and growth and the condition of the global economy changes, we need to: • quickly adapt to changing sales and marketing channels; • effectively manage our inventory levels; • closely manage our global operations and cost structure; • accurately forecast demand and meet production schedules for our products; • differentiate our products from those of competitors, meet customer performance specifications, and drive efficiencies; • allocate resources including key personnel between the development of new products and the enhancement of existing products, as most appropriate and effective for future growth; • improve our product reliability through quality control, order fulfillment and customer support capabilities; • attract, train, retain and motivate key personnel; and • improve our processes and other internal management systems. If we fail to effectively manage changes in our business, we may experience a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Any failure to manage our inventory levels and our inventory controls at our widely dispersed operations could adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We need to continually evaluate and monitor the adequacy of our inventory levels. We also need to closely manage the levels of obsolete and excess parts. We have inventory located at warehouses at our corporate office in the United States and at bonded warehouses and customer locations throughout Asia, Europe and North America. The success of our business depends to a significant degree on our ability to maintain or increase the sales of our products in the markets in which we do business. If we overestimate demand for our products or the overall condition of the global economy, we could experience excess inventory levels and use unnecessary cash. As a result of such excess inventory, we may be required to significantly write down the value of our inventory, which would negatively affect our operating results and financial condition. We could also sustain a loss in the event of a catastrophe in any of the locations where we maintain our inventory if our insurance is inadequate to cover such losses. We will be required to continually analyze the sufficiency of our inventory distribution systems in order to support our operations. We may not adequately anticipate all of the changing demands that will be imposed on these systems. An inability or failure to update our internal inventory distribution systems or procedures, as required, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. International operations expose us to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations for all foreign currencies in which we do business and we may be materially adversely affected by these fluctuations. We have international subsidiaries that operate in foreign currencies. All of our international subsidiaries purchase inventory in U.S. Dollars from either our manufacturing facility in San Diego or from our South Korean subsidiary and, in many cases, resell these products to their customers in their local currency. In addition, we purchase certain inventory in Euros. We hedge the foreign currency risks associated with these intercompany transactions by entering into forward contracts. Although we enter into such forward contracts, they may not be 23 Table of Contents adequate to eliminate the risk of foreign currency exchange rate exposures. Specifically, there is concern regarding the overall stability of the Euro and the future of the Euro as a single currency given the diverse economic and political circumstances in individual Eurozone countries. Potential negative developments and market perceptions related to the Euro could adversely affect the value of our Euro-denominated assets, as well as those of customers and suppliers. We have taken steps to mitigate our foreign currency exchange risks; however, these steps may fail to sufficiently hedge or otherwise manage our foreign currency risks properly and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. International operations also expose us to currency fluctuations as we translate the financial statements of our international subsidiaries to U.S. Dollars, and a significant strengthening of the U.S. Dollar relative to international currencies would increase the effective prices our customers pay for our products, potentially reducing demand for them. Failure to effectively maintain our direct service support operations could have a material adverse effect on our business. We believe it is critical for us to provide direct, quick and responsive support to our chipmaker and direct customers who use our light source products in their photolithography systems. It is also essential to have well trained field service engineers to provide the high level of support that our customers have come to expect. Accordingly, we have an ongoing effort to develop our direct support system with service locations in China, Europe, Japan, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan and the United States. This requires us to do the following: • recruit and train qualified support service personnel; and • maintain effective and highly trained resources who provide support to our customers in various countries. We may not be able to attract and train qualified personnel to maintain our direct support operations successfully. Further, we may incur significant costs in providing this support. Failure to implement our direct support operation effectively could harm our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We are dependent on our suppliers and manufacturing facilities to assemble and test our products. Operations at our primary manufacturing facility in San Diego and refurbishment facility in South Korea and operations at our suppliers are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, work stoppages, terrorism, political turmoil, fire, natural disasters, or energy shortages. Such disruptions could cause delays in shipments of our products to our customers. Our San Diego facility, where we build our light source systems and replacement parts, poses the greatest risk. We provide no assurance that alternate production capacity would be available if a major disruption were to occur or that, if it were available, it could be obtained on favorable terms, or at all. Such disruption could result in cancellation of orders or loss of customers, which would have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We depend on key personnel, particularly management and technical personnel, who may be difficult to attract and retain. We are highly dependent on the services of many key employees in various areas, including: • research and development; • engineering; • sales and marketing; • direct service support; 24 Table of Contents • manufacturing; and • management. In particular, there are a limited number of experts in DUV and EUV source technology, and we require highly skilled hardware and software engineers. Competition for qualified personnel is intense and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel. We believe our future growth and operating results will depend on the following: • the continued service of sufficient staff within the areas of research and development, engineering, sales and marketing, direct service support, manufacturing, and management; • our ability to attract, train and retain highly-skilled key personnel; and • the ability of key management to continue to expand, motivate and manage our employee base. We grant equity awards to key employees. Stock options, performance-based restricted stock unit awards and restricted stock unit awards may not be viewed by key employees as a sufficient financial incentive during periods when stock price volatility could cause our stock price to fall, reducing the effectiveness of such awards as a means to retain and incentivize these employees. If we are unable to hire, train and retain key personnel as required, our operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. Economic, political, regulatory and other events in geographic areas where we have significant revenue or operations could interfere with our business. We serve a global market and a large portion of our revenue is derived from customers outside of the United States. We expect our international sales to continue to account for the majority of our total revenue. In order to support our foreign customers, we maintain a refurbishment facility in South Korea as well as field support facilities in China, Japan, the Netherlands, Singapore and Taiwan. Various factors may inhibit our ability to manage our operations to address and support our global customers effectively. Further, our investments in these types of activities may not be viably competitive in the global market, or we may not be able to meet the support or manufacturing levels required by our global customers. Additionally, we are subject to risks inherent in doing business globally, including but not limited to: • fluctuations in exchange rates and currency controls; • political turmoil and global economic instability; • imposition of trade barriers and restrictions, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, including changes in tariff and freight rates, foreign customs and duties; • difficulty in coordinating our management and operations in various countries; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign subsidiary and branch operations; • limited intellectual property protection in some countries; • potentially adverse tax consequences in some countries; • the possibility of challenging accounts receivable collections; • the risk of business interruption as a result of natural disasters or supply chain disruptions; • the effect of acts of terrorism and war; • the burdens of complying with foreign laws, including regulatory structures and unexpected changes in regulatory environments; and • distribution costs, disruptions in shipping or freight transportation. 25 Table of Contents A significant portion of our customer base is located in Asia. Political turmoil, economic problems and currency fluctuations affecting Asia could increase our risk in that region. It has not been difficult for us to comply with United States export controls; however, changes to these controls in the future could make it more difficult or impossible for us to export our products to many countries. There are certain risks for which we purchase limited or no insurance, including earthquake risk. Any of these vulnerabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Currently, eleven of our international employees are members of a labor union; however, none of our United States employees are members of a labor union. If a greater number of our employees decide to join a union, our cost of doing business could increase, and we could experience contract delays, difficulty in adapting to a changing regulatory and economic environment, cultural conflicts between unionized and non-unionized employees, strikes and work stoppages, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our ability to compete could be jeopardized if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights. These types of claims could seriously harm our business or require us to incur significant costs. We believe our success and ability to compete depend in part upon protecting our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure and other contractual agreements and technical measures to protect our proprietary rights. We own and have numerous patents pending in the United States and various foreign countries covering certain aspects of technology related to our light source systems. Patents related to our source technologies and piezoelectric techniques will expire at various times through 2031. Our pending patent applications and any future applications might not be approved. Our patents may not provide us with a competitive advantage and may be successfully challenged by third parties. In addition, third parties’ patents might have an adverse effect on our ability to do business. Due to cost constraints, we do not seek international patent protection for all inventions that are covered by United States patents and patent applications. As a result, we do not have foreign patent protection for some of our inventions. Additionally, laws of some foreign countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold, including various countries in Asia, may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States Therefore, the likelihood of piracy of our technology and products is greater in these countries. Further, third parties might independently develop similar products, duplicate our products, or design around patents that are granted to us. Other companies or persons may file or have filed patent applications that are similar or identical to ours. As a result, we may have to participate in appropriate proceedings in the courts or the patent offices to determine the priority of inventions. These proceedings may determine that these third-party patent applications have priority over our patent applications. Loss of priority in these interference proceedings could result in substantial cost to us and loss of rights. We also rely on the following to protect our confidential information and our other intellectual property: • trade secret protection; • employee nondisclosure agreements; • third-party nondisclosure agreements; and • other intellectual property protection methods. 26 Table of Contents However, we may not be successful in protecting our confidential information or intellectual property, particularly our trade secrets, because third parties may: • develop substantially the same proprietary information or techniques independently; • gain access to our trade secrets from unrelated third parties and/or without obligation of confidentiality; or • disclose our technology following expiration of their confidentiality obligation. We may be subject to patent litigation to enforce patents issued to us or defend ourselves against claimed infringement by our competitor or any other third party. Third parties have notified us in the past, and may notify us in the future, that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. Also, we have notified third parties in the past, and may notify them in the future, that they may be infringing our intellectual property rights. In the future, patent litigation may result due to a claim of infringement by our competitor or any other third party or may be necessary to enforce patents issued to us. Any such litigation could result in substantial cost to us and diversion from our primary business efforts, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Furthermore, our customers and the end-users of our products might assert other claims for indemnification that arise from infringement claims against them. If these assertions are successful, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Instead of litigation, or as a result thereof, we may seek a license from third parties to use their intellectual property. However, we may not be able to obtain a license. Alternatively, we may design around the third party’s intellectual property rights or we may challenge these claims in legal proceedings. Any adverse determination in a legal proceeding could result in one or more of the following: • loss of our proprietary rights; • exposure to significant liabilities by other third parties; • a requirement that we get a license from third parties on terms that are not favorable to us or not available at all; or • an injunction that prohibits us from manufacturing or selling our products. Any of these actions could be costly and would divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. If our goodwill, amortizable intangible assets or property, plant and equipment become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. We review our amortizable intangible assets, which are primarily patents, and our property, plant and equipment, for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is also tested for impairment at least annually and more often if certain triggering events or circumstances occur. Factors that may be considered to be a change in circumstances that would indicate the carrying value of our goodwill, amortizable intangible assets or property, plant and equipment may not be recoverable include reduced future cash flow estimates for our company, a decline in our stock price and market capitalization, slower growth rates in our industry and adverse global economic conditions. If, as a result of our impairment test, it is determined that our goodwill, amortizable intangible assets or property plant and equipment is impaired, we may be required to record a significant write down in our financial statements during the period in which such impairment is determined, which may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2012, lack of demand for our display products triggered an asset impairment test 27 Table of Contents associated with our display products business. The impairment test resulted in a $5.1 million impairment of equipment used in the manufacturing or research and development of display product tools. For further discussion, see Note 15 “Segment and Geographic Information” and Note 18 “Subsequent Events” to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our investments in marketable securities are subject to market, interest and credit risk that may reduce their value. The value of our investments in marketable securities may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates, downgrades in the creditworthiness of bonds we hold, turmoil in the credit markets and financial services industry and by other factors which may result in other than temporary declines in the value of our investments. Each of these events may cause us to record charges to reduce the carrying value of our investment portfolio, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. Changes in our effective tax rate may have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial position and cash flows. Our future effective tax rate may be adversely affected by a number of factors including: • changes in available tax credits, particularly the federal research and development tax credit; • the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; • the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; • changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; • adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; • increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes; • changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, such as the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) Code Section 199 manufacturing deduction which currently provides a tax benefit; and • the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for United States taxes. An adverse change in our future effective tax rate could in turn, adversely affect our operating results, financial position and cash flows. Our worldwide income tax provisions and other tax accruals may be insufficient if any taxing authorities assume taxing positions that are contrary to our positions and those contrary positions are sustained. We are subject to taxation in the United States and in various states and foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and for our accruals for state, federal and international income taxes together with transaction taxes such as sales tax, value added tax, and goods and services tax. In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Although we believe that our approach to determining our worldwide income tax provisions and other tax accruals is consistent with prevailing legislative interpretation, no assurance can be given that the final tax authority review of these matters will agree with our determinations. Such differences could have a material effect on our income tax provisions or benefits, or other tax accruals, in the period in which such determination is made, and consequently, on our results of operations for such period. From time to time, we are audited by various state, federal and tax authorities of the countries in which we operate. Our tax years 2009 and forward are subject to examination by the IRS, our tax years 2000 and forward are subject to examination by material state jurisdictions, and our tax years 2004 and forward are subject to 28 Table of Contents examination by material foreign jurisdictions. Several of our subsidiaries are currently under audit or appeal. No outcome for a particular audit can be determined with certainty prior to the conclusion of the audit and any appeals process. As each audit progresses and is ultimately concluded, adjustments, if any, will be recorded in our financial statements from time to time in light of prevailing facts based on our and the taxing authority’s respective positions on any disputed matters. We provide for potential tax exposures by accruing for uncertain tax positions based on judgment and estimates including historical audit results. If the reserves are insufficient or we are not able to establish a reserve under GAAP prior to completion or during the progression of any audits, there could be an adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations when an audit assessment is made. It is reasonably possible that the examination phase of our current audits or appeals may conclude in the next 12 months, and that the related tax reserves or unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions may change, potentially having a material effect on our effective tax rate and our results of operations. In addition, our external costs of contesting and settling any dispute with the tax authorities could be substantial and adversely impact our financial position and results of operation. We may not have sufficient cash to fund our current operations and future growth plans. We believe that our cash resources remain sufficient for our planned operations; however, if global economic conditions deteriorate, our business conditions worsen, our plans change or other unanticipated events occur, we may need to raise additional cash through the establishment of financing facilities or the sale of equity or debt securities to fund our operations. Depending on market conditions, it could be difficult for us to raise the additional cash needed without incurring significant dilution of our existing stockholders or agreeing to significant restrictions on our ability to operate as currently planned. If we were unable to raise additional cash in such circumstances, we could be required to reduce costs through the delay, reduction or curtailment of our operating plan, including reductions in our global workforce or other cost reduction actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition or cash flows. At December 31, 2012, we have $42.1 million of cash and cash equivalents in foreign subsidiaries. In the event these cash amounts are needed to fund operations in the U.S., we believe we would not be liable for U.S. taxes in connection with repatriating these funds given that these funds would be used to repay existing intercompany payables and/or loans due to the U.S. parent company. The integration and operation of a business acquisition may disrupt our business and create additional expenses, and we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. We may also acquire other businesses or enter new markets that will involve numerous risks. We may not be able to address these risks successfully without substantial expense, delay or other operational and financial challenges. The risks involved with acquisitions, mergers, and joint ventures or entering a new market include the following: • diversion of management’s attention and resources to integrate the new business opportunity; • failure to retain key personnel; • customer dissatisfaction or performance problems with the acquired company or new product in a new market; • costs associated with acquisitions and joint ventures and the integration of acquired operations; • costs associated with developing, marketing, introducing and supporting a new product in a new market; • failure to commercialize purchased technologies; 29 Table of Contents • ability of the acquired companies, joint ventures or new markets to meet their financial projections; • assumption of unknown liabilities or other unanticipated events or circumstances; and • compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations, NASDAQ Stock Market rules and new accounting standards as they relate to the new company or joint venture. The success of an acquisition assumes certain synergies and other benefits. We cannot assure you that these risks or other unforeseen factors will not offset the intended benefits of the acquisition, in whole or in part. The magnitude, timing and nature of any future acquisitions or investments will depend on a number of factors, including the availability of suitable candidates, the negotiation of acceptable terms, our financial capabilities and general economic and business conditions. Financing for future transactions would result in the utilization of cash, incurrence of debt, issuance of stock or some combination of the three. Further, any business that we acquire, any joint venture that we form, or new market we may enter may not achieve anticipated revenue or operating results and the costs of such activity may have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition or cash flows. We may experience difficulties with our enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system or other critical information systems that we use for the daily operations of our business. System failure, malfunction, security breaches due to cyber attacks by third parties or loss of data contained in these information systems may result in disruption of our operations and result in our inability to process transactions, and this could adversely affect our financial results. System failure, malfunction, security breaches due to cyber attacks by third parties or loss of data housed in our critical information systems could disrupt our ability to timely and accurately process transactions and produce key financial reports, including information on our operating results, financial position and cash flows. Any disruptions or difficulties that may occur in connection with our ERP system or other critical systems could also adversely affect our ability to complete important business processes such as the evaluation of our internal controls and attestation activities pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We also regularly upgrade our information systems hardware and software to better meet the information requirements needed to effectively manage our business. If we encounter unforeseen problems with regard to our ERP system or other critical information systems, including those encountered during system upgrades, our business could be adversely affected. Compliance with changing regulations and standards for accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing regulatory requirements for corporate governance and public disclosure including SEC regulations, NASDAQ Stock Market rules, and the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s accounting standards requirements and the expected future requirement to transition to or converge with international financial reporting standards are creating uncertainty and additional complexities for publicly held companies such as ours. For example, in July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, was enacted. There are significant corporate governance and executive compensation related provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that require the SEC to adopt additional rules and regulations in these areas such as “say on pay” and proxy access. On August 22, 2012 the SEC adopted new requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act for companies that use certain minerals and metals known as conflict minerals in their products, whether or not these products are manufactured by third parties. These requirements will require companies to annually assess whether a conflict mineral is necessary to the functionality or production of any of their products. If so, companies must perform due diligence, disclose in SEC filings and prepare specific reports regarding whether or not such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. The implementation of these new requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of minerals used in the manufacture of semiconductor devices, including our products. In addition, we will incur additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the source of 30 Table of Contents any of the relevant minerals and metals used in our products. Since our supply chain is complex, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins for these minerals and metals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may harm our reputation. In such event, we may also face difficulties in satisfying customers who require that all of the components of our products are certified as conflict mineral free. Stockholder activism, the current political environment, financial reform legislation and the current high level of government intervention and regulatory reform may lead to substantial new regulations and disclosure obligations, which may lead to additional compliance costs and impact (in ways we cannot currently anticipate) the manner in which we operate our business. To maintain high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with such compliance programs and rules and all other evolving standards. These investments may result in increased general and administrative costs and a diversion of our management’s time and attention from strategic revenue generating and cost management activities. We are dependent on air transport to conduct our business and disruption of domestic and international air transport systems could adversely affect our business. We depend on regular and reliable air transportation on a worldwide basis for many of our routine business functions. If civil aviation in the United States or abroad is disrupted by terrorist activities or security responses to the threat of terrorism, regulatory compliance issues, weather or atmospheric conditions or for any other reason, our business could be adversely affected in the following ways: • supplies of raw materials and components for the manufacture of our products or our customers’ products may be disrupted; • we may not be able to deliver our products to our customers in a timely manner; • we may not be able to provide timely service of or support for installed light sources for chipmakers; and • our sales and marketing efforts may be disrupted. We are subject to many standards and regulations of foreign governments and, even though we intend to comply, we may not always be in compliance with these rules, or we may be unable to design or redesign our products to comply with these rules. Many foreign government standards and regulations apply to our products and these standards and regulations are frequently being amended. Although we intend to meet all foreign standards and regulations, our products may not comply with all of them. Further, it might not be cost effective for us to redesign our products to comply with these foreign government standards and regulations. If we are unable to design products to fully comply with foreign standards, a failure to comply could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our chipmaker customers’ prolonged use of our products in high volume production may not produce the results they desire and, as a result, our reputation and that of our customers who supply photolithography tools to the chipmakers could be damaged in the semiconductor industry. Over time, our light source products may not meet our chipmaker customers’ production specifications or operating cost requirements after the light source has been used for a long period in high volume production. If any chipmaker cannot successfully achieve or sustain their volume production using our light sources, our reputation could be damaged with them and with lithography tool manufacturers. This would have a negative effect on our business. Our operations are subject to environmental and other government regulations that may expose us to liabilities for noncompliance. We are subject to federal, state and local regulations, such as regulations related to the environment, land use, public utility utilization and the fire code, in connection with the storage, handling, discharge and disposal of 31 Table of Contents substances that we use in our manufacturing process and in our facilities. We believe that our activities comply with current government regulations that are applicable to our operations and current facilities. We may be required to purchase additional capital equipment or meet other requirements to comply with these government regulations in the future, if they change. Further, these government regulations may restrict us from expanding our operations. Adopting measures to comply with changes in the government regulations, our failure to comply with environmental and land use regulations, or restrictions on our ability to discharge hazardous substances, could subject us to future liability or cause our manufacturing operations to be reduced or stopped. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Our products are subject to potential product liability claims if personal injury or death results from their use. We are exposed to significant risks for product liability claims if personal injury or death results from the use of our products. We may experience material product liability losses in the future. We maintain insurance against product liability claims; however, our insurance coverage may not continue to be available on terms that are acceptable to us. This insurance coverage also may not adequately cover liabilities that we incur. Further, if our products are defective, we may be required to recall or redesign these products. A successful claim against us that exceeds our insurance coverage level, or any claim or product recall that results in adverse publicity against us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Disputes may arise over the ownership of intellectual property resulting from our research and development activities that have been partially funded by other parties. In the past, we have occasionally received funds through research and development arrangements with third parties to pay for a portion of our research and development costs associated with the design and development of specific products. Additionally, funds from lithography tool manufacturers and chipmaker customers have been used to fund a portion of our source systems research and development efforts. In connection with providing these research and development services, we try to make contractually clear who owns the intellectual property that results from such activities. Disputes over the ownership or rights to use or market the resulting intellectual property could arise between the funding organizations and us. Any dispute over ownership of the intellectual property we develop or have developed could restrict our ability to market our products and have a material adverse effect on our business. Trademark infringement claims against our registered and unregistered trademarks would be expensive and we may have to stop using such trademarks and pay damages. We have registered a number of trademarks including “CYMER” in the United States and in some other countries. We are also trying to register additional trademarks in the United States and in other countries. These registrations in other countries, or any new registrations we may undertake in the United States, could be unsuccessful. We use these trademarks in the course of our business and in advertising materials, which are distributed throughout the world. While we take precautions against trademark infringement before using our trademarks in new markets, we may be subject to claims of trademark infringement. The process of negotiating a settlement or coexistence agreement to allow us to continue using our trademarks in a particular market could be expensive or distract us from our primary business efforts, potentially adversely affecting our financial condition or operations. Furthermore, if we must undertake negotiations, and the negotiations are ultimately unsuccessful, we would either need to discontinue using the trademarks in the new market, risk facing litigation or potentially pay damages. Even if we ultimately prevail, litigation could be expensive or distract us from our primary business efforts. 32 Table of Contents The price of our common stock has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate widely. The price of our common stock has historically been subject to fluctuations and could continue to fluctuate in response to a variety of factors, including the risk factors contained in this report. Various factors may significantly affect the market price and volatility of our common stock, including: • the market price of ASML stock; • regulatory approval of the Merger, which could effect the closing date of the Merger; • consummation of the Merger; • the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results, including our net income, revenue and product gross margins; • conditions and trends in lithography and other technology industries; • announcements of innovations in technology; • new products offered by us or our competitors; • developments of patents or proprietary rights; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • global political, economic, and market conditions, including a recession or economic deterioration; and • failure to properly manage any single or combination of risk factors listed in this section. Stock markets in the United States can experience extraordinary volatility. Severe price fluctuations in a company’s stock have frequently been followed by securities litigation. If such litigation were initiated against us, it may result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Some anti-takeover provisions contained in our articles of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Nevada law and our executive employment contracts, could impair a takeover attempt. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions which could have the effect (separately, or in combination) of rendering more difficult or discouraging a merger, acquisition or other change of control deemed undesirable by our Board of Directors. These include provisions: • authorizing blank check preferred stock, which could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; • limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; • requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our Board of Directors; • controlling the procedures for conduct of stockholder meetings and election and removal of directors; and • specifying that stockholders may not take action by written consent. These provisions, alone or together, could deter or delay hostile takeovers, proxy contests and changes in control or management. 33 Table of Contents As a Nevada corporation, we are subject to Nevada law. Nevada law does not grant stockholders the authority to call a special meeting unless the corporation’s articles of incorporation or bylaws otherwise provide; neither our articles of incorporation nor our bylaws contain such a provision. Nevada law may also limit the ability of certain stockholders to engage in certain business combinations with us and may limit the voting rights of stockholders who acquire 20% or more of our outstanding shares. Either limitation could discourage or increase the difficulty of an attempted merger, acquisition or other change of control. Additionally, we have employment agreements with certain officers under which severance payments would become payable in the event of specified terminations without cause or terminations under certain circumstances after a change in control. If such persons were terminated without cause or under certain circumstances after a change of control, and the severance payments under the current employment agreements were to become payable, the officers would receive certain payments and other benefits which depend on the individual officer’s employment agreement but generally include continued base salary and health insurance payments for a period of time, lump sum bonus payments and accelerated vesting of equity awards. Any provision of our articles of incorporation, bylaws, employment agreements or Nevada law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock in connection with such a transaction and also could affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. Sales of additional common stock and securities convertible into our common stock may dilute the voting power of current holders. We may issue equity securities in the future the terms and rights of which are superior to those of our common stock. Our articles of incorporation authorize the issuance of up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. These are “blank check” preferred shares, meaning that our Board of Directors is authorized, from time to time, to issue the shares and designate their voting, conversion and other rights, including rights superior, or preferential, to rights of already outstanding shares, all without stockholder consent. No preferred shares are outstanding, and we currently do not intend to issue any shares of preferred stock. Any shares of preferred stock that may be issued in the future could be given voting and conversion rights that could dilute the voting power and equity of existing holders of shares of common stock and have preferences over shares of common stock with respect to dividends and liquidation rights. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 34 Table of Contents 