ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. You should also refer to the other information in this report, including our financial statements and the related notes incorporated by reference. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. In that event the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Risks Relating to Our Business Our product candidates are at an early clinical stage of development, and if we are not able to successfully develop and commercialize them, we may not generate sufficient revenues to continue our business operations. We currently have only two product candidates that are in clinical trials. Androxal is in a 194 patient non-pivotal Phase 3 safety trial in the United States for the treatment of men with testosterone deficiency, and Proellex is presently in a 128 patient Phase 2 trial in the United States for the treatment of uterine fibroids and in a 39 patient Phase 1/2 trial in Europe for the treatment of endometriosis. Based on our current interim data from the Phase 1/2 trial for Proellex for the treatment of endometriosis, we intend to submit a U.S. investigational new drug application, or IND, to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA. We have expended significant time, money and effort in the development of Proellex and Androxal, and we will have to spend considerable additional time, money and effort before seeking regulatory approval to market these product candidates. Our business depends primarily on our ability to successfully complete clinical trials, obtain required regulatory approvals and successfully commercialize our product candidates. If we fail to commercialize one or more of our product candidates, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenues to attain profitability or continue our business operations and our reputation in the industry and in the investment community could likely be significantly damaged, each of which would cause our stock price to decline. Because the data from our preclinical studies and early clinical trials for our product candidates are not necessarily predictive of future results, we can provide no assurances that any of them will have favorable results in clinical trials or receive regulatory approval. Before we can obtain regulatory approval for the commercial sale of any product candidate that we develop, we are required to complete preclinical development and extensive clinical trials in humans to demonstrate its safety and efficacy. Positive data from preclinical studies or early clinical trials should not be relied upon as evidence that those studies or trials will produce positive results, or that later or larger-scale clinical trials will succeed. Initial clinical trials for Proellex and Androxal have been conducted only in small numbers of patients that may not fully represent the diversity present in larger populations. In addition, these studies have not been subjected to the exacting design requirements typically required by FDA for pivotal trials. Thus the limited data we have obtained may not predict results from studies in larger numbers of patients drawn from more diverse populations, and may not predict the ability of Proellex to treat uterine fibroids and endometriosis or Androxal to treat testosterone deficiency. We will be required to -12- Table of Contents demonstrate through larger-scale clinical trials that these product candidates are safe and effective for use in a diverse population before we can seek regulatory approvals for their commercial sale. There is typically an extremely high rate of attrition from the failure of drug candidates proceeding through clinical trials. We will also be required to complete a two-year rat carcinogenicity study before we are permitted to file a new drug application, or NDA, for Androxal and Proellex. If Proellex, Androxal, or any other potential future product candidate fails to demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy in any clinical trial, we would experience potentially significant delays in, or be required to abandon, development of that product candidate. If we delay or abandon our development efforts related to Proellex or Androxal, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to continue operations or become profitable. If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations, we will have to delay, reduce or eliminate our research and development programs or commercialization efforts. We expect to make additional capital outlays and to increase operating expenditures over the next several years to support our preclinical development and clinical trial activities, particularly with respect to pivotal clinical trials for Proellex and Androxal. Our existing financial resources together with the $33.0 million from our 2007 offering are expected to be sufficient to fund our operations into 2008, depending on the timing and success of our clinical trials. Thereafter we will need to seek additional funding through public or private financings, including equity or debt financings, and/or through other means, including collaborations and license agreements. We do not know whether additional financing will be available when needed, or that, if available, we will obtain financing on terms favorable to our stockholders or us. If adequate funds are not available to us, we may be required to: • delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our development programs; • relinquish, license or otherwise dispose of rights to technologies, product candidate or products that we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize ourselves at an earlier stage or on terms that are less favorable than might otherwise be available; or • liquidate and dissolve our company. Our future capital requirements will depend upon a number of factors, including: • the size, complexity, results and timing of our clinical programs; • the cost to obtain sufficient supply of the compounds necessary for our product candidates at a reasonable cost; • the time and cost involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; • the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending and enforcing patent claims; and • competing technological and market developments. These factors could result in variations from our currently projected operating and liquidity requirements. We have a history of operating losses, and we expect to incur increasing net losses and may not achieve or maintain profitability for some time or at all. We have experienced significant operating losses in each fiscal year since our inception. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $108.3 million. We expect to continue incurring net losses and we may not achieve or maintain profitability for some time if at all. As we increase expenditures for the clinical development of Proellex and Androxal, we expect our operating losses to increase for at least the next few years. Our ability to achieve profitability will depend, among other things, on successfully completing the development of Proellex and Androxal, obtaining regulatory approvals, establishing marketing, sales and manufacturing capabilities or collaborative arrangements with others that possess such capabilities, and raising sufficient funds to finance our activities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve profitability or that profitability, if achieved, can be sustained. Raising additional funds by issuing securities or through collaboration and licensing arrangements may cause dilution to existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish proprietary rights. We may raise additional funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or corporate collaborations and licensing arrangements. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders’ ownership will be diluted. Any debt financing we enter into -13- Table of Contents may involve covenants that restrict our operations. These restrictive covenants may include limitations on borrowing and specific restrictions on the use of our assets, as well as prohibitions on our ability to create liens, pay dividends, redeem capital stock or make investments. In addition, if we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish potentially valuable rights to our potential products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. For example, we might be forced to relinquish all or a portion of our sales and marketing rights with respect to Proellex, Androxal or other potential products or license intellectual property that enables licensees to develop competing products. Our stock price could decline significantly based on the results and timing of clinical trials of, and decisions affecting, our product candidates. Results of clinical trials and preclinical studies of our current and potential product candidates may not be viewed favorably by us or third parties, including the FDA or other regulatory authorities, investors, analysts and potential collaborators. The same may be true of how we design the clinical trials of our product candidates and regulatory decisions affecting those clinical trials. Biopharmaceutical company stock prices have declined significantly when such results and decisions were unfavorable or perceived negatively or when a product candidate did not otherwise meet expectations. We recently commenced our non-pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial for Androxal in the United States for the treatment of men with testosterone deficiency and our Phase 2 clinical trial for Proellex in the United States for the treatment of symptoms associated with uterine fibroids. We also recently commenced a Phase 1/2 clinical trial in Europe for the treatment of women suffering from endometriosis. While interim results are encouraging, the final results from these programs may be negative, may not meet expectations or may be perceived negatively. The design of these clinical trials (which may change significantly and be more expensive than currently anticipated depending on our clinical results and regulatory decisions) may also be viewed negatively by third parties. We may not be successful in completing these clinical trials on our projected timetable, if at all. Failure to initiate additional clinical trials or delays in existing clinical trials of Androxal and Proellex or any of our other current or future product candidates, or unfavorable results or decisions or negative perceptions regarding any of such clinical trials, could cause our stock price to decline significantly. Delays in the commencement of preclinical studies and clinical trials testing of our current and potential product candidates could result in increased costs to us and delay our ability to generate revenues. Our product candidates will require continued preclinical studies and extensive clinical trials prior to the submission of a regulatory application for commercial sales. We recently commenced our non-pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial for Androxal in the United States for the treatment of men with testosterone deficiency and our Phase 2 clinical trial for Proellex in the United States for the treatment of symptoms associated with uterine fibroids. We also recently commenced a Phase 1/2 clinical trial for Proellex in Europe for the treatment of women suffering from endometriosis. We have limited experience conducting clinical trials for these product candidates. In part, because of this limited experience, we do not know whether future planned clinical trials will begin on time, if at all. Delays in the commencement of preclinical studies and clinical trials could significantly increase our product development costs and delay any product commercialization. In addition, many of the factors that may cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to denial of regulatory approval of a product candidate. The commencement of clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in: • demonstrating sufficient safety and efficacy in past clinical trials to obtain regulatory approval to commence a further clinical trial; • reaching agreements on acceptable terms with prospective contract manufacturers for manufacturing sufficient quantities of a product candidate; and • obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site. In addition, the commencement of clinical trials may be delayed due to insufficient patient enrollment, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, and the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial. Delays in the completion of, or the termination of, clinical testing of our current and potential product candidates could result in increased costs to us, and could delay or prevent us from generating revenues. -14- Table of Contents Once a clinical trial has begun, it may be delayed, suspended or terminated by us or the FDA, or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including: • lack of effectiveness of any product candidate during clinical trials; • side effects experienced by trial participants or other safety issues; • slower than expected rates of patient recruitment and enrollment or lower than expected patient retention rates; • delays or inability to manufacture or obtain sufficient quantities of materials for use in clinical trials; • Inadequacy of or changes in our manufacturing process or compound formulation; • delays in obtaining regulatory approvals to commence a trial, or “clinical holds” or delays requiring suspension or termination of a trial by a regulatory agency, such as the FDA, after a trial is commenced; • changes in applicable regulatory policies and regulations; • delays in identifying and reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective clinical trial sites; • uncertainty regarding proper dosing; • unfavorable results from on-going clinical trials and preclinical studies; • failure of our clinical research organizations to comply with all regulatory and contractual requirements or otherwise fail to perform their services in a timely or acceptable manner; • scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions; • failure to construct appropriate clinical trial protocols; • insufficient data to support regulatory approval; • inability or unwillingness of medical investigators to follow our clinical protocols; • difficulty in maintaining contact with subjects during or after treatment, which may result in incomplete data; • ongoing discussions with the FDA or other regulatory authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials; • acceptability to the FDA of data obtained from clinical studies conducted in Europe or other non-United States jurisdictions; and • lack of adequate funding to continue clinical trials. Many of these factors that may lead to a delay, suspension or termination of clinical testing of a current or potential product candidate may also ultimately lead to denial of regulatory approval of a current or potential product candidate. If we experience delays in the completion of, or termination of, clinical testing of any product candidates in the future, our financial results and the commercial prospects for our product candidates will be harmed, and our ability to generate product revenues will be delayed. Even if we successfully complete clinical trials for Proellex and Androxal, there are no assurances that we will be able to submit, or obtain FDA approval of, a new drug application. There can be no assurance that, if our clinical trials for Proellex and Androxal are successfully completed, we will be able to submit a new drug application, or NDA, to the FDA or that any NDA we submit will be approved by the FDA in a timely manner, if at all. After completing clinical trials for a product candidate in humans, a drug dossier is prepared and submitted to the FDA as an NDA, and includes all preclinical studies and clinical trial data relevant to the safety and effectiveness of the product at the suggested dose and duration of use for the proposed indication, in order to allow the FDA to review such drug dossier and to consider a product candidate for approval for commercialization in the United States. If we are unable to submit an NDA with respect to Proellex or Androxal, or if any NDA we submit is not approved by the FDA, we will be unable to commercialize that product. The FDA can and -15- Table of Contents does reject NDAs and requires additional clinical trials, even when drug candidates achieve favorable results in large-scale Phase 3 clinical trials. If we fail to commercialize Proellex or Androxal, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenues to continue operations or attain profitability and our reputation in the industry and in the investment community would likely be damaged. The results of preclinical studies and completed clinical trials are not necessarily predictive of future results, and our current drug candidates may not have favorable results in later studies or trials. Preclinical studies and Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials are not primarily designed to test the efficacy of a drug candidate, but rather to test safety, to study pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics, and to understand the drug candidate’s side effects at various doses and schedules. To date, long-term safety and efficacy have not yet been demonstrated in clinical trials for any of our product candidates. Favorable results in our early studies or trials may not be repeated in later studies or trials, including continuing preclinical studies and large-scale clinical trials analyzed with more rigorous statistical methods, and our drug candidates in later-stage trials may fail to show desired safety and efficacy despite having progressed through earlier-stage trials. For example, clinical results that we have obtained for Androxal may not predict results from studies in larger numbers of subjects drawn from more diverse populations treated for longer periods of time. They also may not predict the ability of Androxal to achieve or sustain the desired effects in the intended population or to do so safely. Unfavorable results from ongoing preclinical studies or clinical trials could result in delays, modifications or abandonment of ongoing or future clinical trials. Clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. Negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause a clinical trial to be delayed, repeated or terminated. In addition, we may report top-line data from time to time, which is based on a preliminary analysis of key efficacy and safety data; such data may be subject to change following a more comprehensive review of the data related to the applicable clinical trial. If commercialized, our product candidates may not be approved for sufficient governmental or third-party reimbursements, which would adversely affect our ability to market our product candidates. In the United States and elsewhere, sales of pharmaceutical products depend in significant part on the availability of reimbursement to the consumer from third-party payers, such as government and private insurance plans. Since we have no commercial products, we have not had to face this issue yet; however, third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. It will be time consuming and expensive for us to go through the process of seeking reimbursement from Medicaid, Medicare and private payers for Proellex and Androxal. Our products may not be considered cost effective, and coverage and reimbursement may not be available or sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a competitive and profitable basis. The passage of the Medicare Prescription Drug and Modernization Act of 2003 imposes new requirements for the distribution and pricing of prescription drugs which may negatively affect the marketing of our potential products. If we successfully develop products but those products do not achieve and maintain market acceptance, our business will not be profitable. Even if our product candidates are approved for commercial sale by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, the degree of market acceptance of any approved product by physicians, healthcare professionals and third-party payers and our profitability and growth will depend on a number of factors, including: • relative convenience and ease of administration; • the prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects; • availability, effectiveness and cost of alternative treatments; • pricing and cost effectiveness of our drugs; • effectiveness of our or collaborators’ sales and marketing strategies; and • our ability to obtain sufficient third-party insurance coverage or reimbursement. If Proellex does not provide a treatment regimen that is more beneficial than Lupron, a GnRH agonist and the current therapeutic standard of care for uterine fibroids, or otherwise provide patient benefit, it likely will not be accepted favorably by the market. Similarly, if Androxal does not provide a treatment regime that is more beneficial than Androgel, the current standard of care for the treatment of testosterone deficiency, or otherwise provide patient benefit, it likely will not be accepted favorably by the market. If any products we may develop do not achieve market acceptance, then we will not generate sufficient revenue to achieve or maintain profitability. In addition, even if our products achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to maintain that market acceptance over time if: -16- Table of Contents • new products or technologies are introduced that are more favorably received than our products, are more cost effective or render our products obsolete; • unforeseen complications arise with respect to use of our products; or • sufficient third-party insurance coverage or reimbursement does not remain available. We currently rely on third-party manufacturers and other third parties for production of our product candidates, and our dependence on these manufacturers may impair the development of our product candidates. Currently, we do not have the ability internally to manufacture the product candidates that we need to conduct our clinical trials. We recently entered into a long-term supply contract with Gedeon Richter for the production of the active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, for Proellex due to their extensive experience in the manufacture of similar compounds and the cost savings they offered compared to other qualified manufacturers. Pursuant to the terms of this long-term supply contract, we are required, with certain limited exceptions, to purchase all of our future requirements of Proellex from this single supplier for a period of five years after the first sale of Proellex in the United States, to the extent that such supplier is able to satisfy our requirements. The contract may be terminated by either party for failure to remedy a default of any material provision of the contract. Should the contract be terminated for any reason, we would in all likelihood be required to obtain the API from an alternate manufacturer which may increase the costs associated with our clinical trials and result in delays to our clinical trial program for Proellex. We have no long-term contract with suppliers of Androxal. We have obtained all of our supply of Androxal to date from BioVectra. We have not faced any material problems with BioVectra in supplying us with our necessary quantities of Androxal for our clinical trials and anticipate utilizing them for commercial production if Androxal is approved. There are numerous other suitable manufacturers capable of manufacturing Androxal. For the foreseeable future, we expect to continue to rely on third-party manufacturers and other third parties to produce, package and store sufficient quantities of Proellex, Androxal and any future product candidates for use in our clinical trials. These product candidates are complicated and expensive to manufacture. If our third-party manufacturers fail to deliver our product candidates for clinical use on a timely basis, with sufficient quality, and at commercially reasonable prices, we may be required to delay or suspend clinical trials or otherwise discontinue development and production of our product candidates. While we may be able to identify replacement third-party manufacturers or develop our own manufacturing capabilities for these product candidates, this process would likely cause a delay in the availability of our product candidates and an increase in costs. In addition, third-party manufacturers may have a limited number of facilities in which our product candidates can be produced, and any interruption of the operation of those facilities due to events such as equipment malfunction or failure or damage to the facility by natural disasters could result in the cancellation of shipments, loss of product in the manufacturing process or a shortfall in available product candidates. Our product candidates have only been manufactured in small quantities to date, and we may face delays or complications in manufacturing quantities of our product candidates in sufficient quantities to meet the demands of late stage clinical trials and marketing. We cannot assure that we will be able to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity or scale-up manufacturing volume per batch, whether on our own or in reliance on third-party manufacturers, for any of our product candidates in a timely or economical manner, or at all. To date our product candidates have been manufactured exclusively by third parties in small quantities for preclinical studies and clinical trials. We have arranged for the production of significantly larger quantities of Proellex, and we will need to arrange for the production of significantly larger quantities of Androxal, for future clinical trials and for future commercial sale in the event that such product candidates are approved by the FDA or foreign regulatory bodies. Significant scale-up of manufacturing requires certain additional developmental work, which the FDA must review and approve to assure product comparability. If we or our third-party manufacturers are unable to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for a product candidate, the regulatory approval or commercial launch of that product candidate may be delayed or there may be a shortage in supply of that product candidate. Our product candidates require precise, high-quality manufacturing which may not be available at acceptable costs. Proellex and Androxal are novel compounds that have never been produced in large scale. As in the development of any new compound, there are underlying risks associated with their manufacture. These risks include, but are not limited to, cost, process scale-up, process reproducibility, construction of a suitable process plant, timely availability of raw materials, as well as regulatory issues associated with the manufacture of an active pharmaceutical agent. Any of these risks may prevent us from successfully developing Proellex or Androxal. Our failure, or the failure of our third-party manufacturers to achieve and maintain these high manufacturing standards, including the incidence of manufacturing errors and reliable product packaging for diverse environmental conditions, could -17- Table of Contents result in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously hurt our business. We may experience delays in the development of our product candidates if the third-party manufacturers of our product candidates cannot meet FDA requirements relating to Good Manufacturing Practices. Our third-party manufacturers are required to produce our product candidates under FDA current Good Manufacturing Practices in order to meet acceptable standards for our clinical trials. If such standards change, the ability of third-party manufacturers to produce our product candidates on the schedule we require for our clinical trials may be affected. In addition, third-party manufacturers may not perform their obligations under their agreements with us or may discontinue their business before the time required by us to gain approval for or commercialize our product candidates. Any difficulties or delays in the manufacturing and supply of our product candidates could increase our costs or cause us to lose revenue or postpone or cancel clinical trials. The FDA also requires that we demonstrate structural and functional comparability between the same drug product produced by different third-party manufacturers. Because we may use multiple sources to manufacture Proellex and Androxal, we may need to conduct comparability studies to assess whether manufacturing changes have affected the product safety, identity, purity or potency of any commercial product candidate compared to the product candidate used in clinical trials. If we are unable to demonstrate comparability, the FDA could require us to conduct additional clinical trials, which would be expensive and significantly delay commercialization of our product candidates. We rely on third parties to conduct clinical trials for our product candidates, and their failure to timely and properly perform their obligations may result in costs and delays that prevent us from obtaining regulatory approval or successfully commercializing our product candidates. We rely on independent contractors, including researchers at clinical research organizations and universities, in certain areas that are particularly relevant to our research and product development plans, such as the conduct of clinical trials. Pharm-Olam International Ltd. conducted our previous clinical trial in Poland for Proellex for the treatment of uterine fibroids and has been engaged to conduct our clinical trials in the United States for Proellex for uterine fibroids and Androxal for the treatment of testosterone deficiency and our clinical trial in Europe for Proellex for endometriosis. The competition for these relationships is intense, and we may not be able to maintain our relationships with them on acceptable terms. Independent contractors generally may terminate their engagements at any time, subject to notice. As a result, we can control their activities only within certain limits, and they will devote only a certain amount of their time conducting research on and trials of our product candidates and assisting in developing them. If they do not successfully carry out their duties under their agreements with us, fail to inform us if these trials fail to comply with clinical trial protocols, or fail to meet expected deadlines, our clinical trials may need to be extended, delayed or terminated. We may not be able to enter into replacement arrangements without undue delays or excessive expenditures. If there are delays in testing or regulatory approvals as a result of the failure to perform by our independent contractors or other outside parties, our drug development costs will increase and we may not be able to attain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our product candidates. Our liability insurance may neither provide adequate coverage nor may it always be available on favorable terms or at all. Neither Proellex nor Androxal has been approved for commercial sale. However, the current and future use of our product candidates by us and potential corporate collaborators in clinical trials, and the sale of any approved products in the future, may expose us to liability claims. These claims might be made directly by consumers or healthcare providers or indirectly by pharmaceutical companies, potential corporate collaborators or others selling such products. We may experience financial losses in the future due to product liability claims. We have obtained limited general commercial liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if we obtain marketing approval for any of our product candidates. However, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses. If a successful product liability claim or series of claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or for liabilities in excess of our insurance limits, our assets may not be sufficient to cover such claims and our business operations could be impaired. We face significant competition with many companies with substantially greater resources than we have and other possible advantages. We are engaged in biopharmaceutical product development, an industry that is characterized by extensive research efforts and rapid technological progress. The biopharmaceutical industry is also highly competitive. Our success will depend on our ability to acquire, develop and commercialize products and our ability to establish and maintain markets for any products for which we receive marketing approval. Potential competitors in North America, Europe and elsewhere include major pharmaceutical companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions and government agencies. -18- Table of Contents Many of our competitors have substantially greater research and development and regulatory capabilities and experience, and substantially greater management, manufacturing, distribution, marketing and financial resources, than we do. Accordingly, our competitors may: • develop or license products or other novel technologies that are more effective, safer or less costly than the product candidates that we are developing; • obtain regulatory approval for products before we do; or • commit more resources than we can to developing, marketing and selling competing products. The main therapeutic products competitive with Proellex for the treatment of uterine fibroids and endometriosis are GnRH agonists, including Lupron, which is marketed by TAP Pharmaceuticals. There are additional companies developing similar progesterone-blocking technology. Asoprisnil, an anti-progestin being developed by TAP Pharmaceuticals in partnership with Schering AG, is currently in Phase 3 clinical trials. TAP Pharmaceuticals is a much larger company than we are with greater resources and greater ability to promote their products than we currently have. In addition, surgical treatment of both uterine fibroids and endometriosis would compete with Proellex, if approved, by removing uterine fibroids and by removing misplaced tissue in women with endometriosis. Our main competitors for the treatment of testosterone deficiency are the testosterone replacement therapies currently being marketed. The current standard of care is Androgel, a topical gel for the replacement of testosterone developed by Solvay Pharmaceuticals. Solvay is a much larger company than we are, with greater resources and marketing ability. Androxal would also compete with other forms of testosterone replacement therapies such as oral treatments, patches, injectables and a tablet applied to the upper gum. There is another topical gel currently marketed by Auxilium Pharmaceuticals called Testim, and a transdermal patch marketed by Watson Pharmaceuticals called AndroDerm. There can be no assurance that our product candidates will be more successful than competitive products. In addition, other potential competitors may be developing testosterone therapies similar to ours. We are thinly staffed and highly dependent on a limited number of management persons and key personnel, and if we lose these members of our team or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified personnel, our future growth and ability to compete would suffer. The competition for qualified personnel in the biopharmaceutical field is intense, and our future success depends upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled scientific, technical and managerial employees. We have only eight full-time employees at the present time, including our President and CEO, Joseph S. Podolski, our Vice President, Business Development and CFO, Louis Ploth, Jr. and our Senior Vice President and Chief Medical Officer, Dr. Andre van As. We are highly dependent on Messrs. Podolski and Ploth and Dr. van As for the management of our company and the development of our technologies. Messrs. Podolski and Ploth and Dr. van As have employment agreements with us. There can be no assurance that Mr. Podolski, Mr. Ploth or Dr. van As will remain with us through development of our current product candidates. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our directors, officers or employees. The loss of the services of Mr. Podolski, Mr. Ploth or Dr. van As could delay or curtail our research and product development efforts. Additionally, in order to commercialize our products successfully, we will be required to expand our workforce, particularly in the areas of clinical trials management, regulatory affairs, business development, sales and marketing and administrative and accounting functions. These activities will require the addition of new personnel and the development of additional expertise by management. We face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous biopharmaceutical companies, as well as academic and other research institutions. We may hire up to five employees over the next two years. To the extent we are not able to attract and retain employees on favorable terms; we may face delays in the development or commercialization of our product candidates and extensive costs in retaining current employees or searching for and training new employees. Our plan to use collaborations to leverage our capabilities may not be successful. As part of our business strategy, we intend to enter into collaboration arrangements with strategic partners to develop and commercialize our product candidates. For our collaboration efforts to be successful, we must identify partners whose competencies complement ours. We must also successfully enter into collaboration agreements with them on terms attractive to us and integrate and coordinate their resources and capabilities with our own. We may be unsuccessful in entering into collaboration agreements with acceptable partners or negotiating favorable terms in these agreements. In addition, we may face a disadvantage in seeking to enter into or negotiating collaborations with potential partners because other potential collaborators may have greater management and financial resources than we do. Also, we may be unsuccessful in integrating the resources or capabilities of these collaborators. In addition, our collaborators may prove difficult to work with or less skilled than we originally expected. If we are unsuccessful in our collaborative efforts, our ability to develop and market product candidates could be severely limited. -19- Table of Contents Healthcare reform measures could adversely affect our business. The business and financial condition of pharmaceutical companies are affected by the efforts of governmental and third-party payers to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare. In the United States and in foreign jurisdictions there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the healthcare system. For example, in some countries other than the United States, pricing of prescription drugs is subject to government control, and we expect proposals to implement similar controls in the United States to continue. The approval of such proposals could result in a decrease in our stock price or limit our ability to raise capital or to obtain strategic collaborations or licenses. We may incur increased costs as a result of laws and regulations relating to corporate governance matters. Laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley, and rules adopted or proposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and by NASDAQ, will result in increased costs to us as we evaluate the implications of any new rules and respond to their requirements. We are currently an accelerated filer and, as a result, are subject to additional regulatory requirements, including Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley which requires us to include in our annual report for the period ending December 31, 2006 a report by management on our internal control over financial reporting and an accompanying auditor’s report. Additionally, new rules could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs to comply with such new rules and regulations. Risks Relating to Our Intellectual Property We licensed our rights to Proellex from NIH and our inability to fulfill our commitments and obligations under such license may result in forfeiture of our rights. Our rights to Proellex are licensed exclusively to us from NIH under a license agreement. This license agreement contains numerous detailed performance obligations, with time sensitive dates for compliance, relating to clinical development and commercialization activities required by us or our designated third-party providers, as well as additional financial milestones and royalties. Failure to achieve the benchmarks specified in the commercial development plan attached to the license agreement or meet payment obligations could result in termination of the license agreement and the loss of our rights to develop and commercialize Proellex. We periodically update the commercial development plan as such plans evolve. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet any or all of the performance objectives in the future on a timely basis or at all, or that, if we fail to meet any of such objectives, NIH will agree to revised objectives. NIH has the ability to terminate the agreement for an uncured material breach of the agreement, if we made a false statement or willful omission in our license application, if we do not keep Proellex reasonably available to the public after commercial launch, if we cannot reasonably satisfy unmet health and safety needs, or if we cannot reasonably justify a failure to comply with the domestic production requirement unless such requirement has been waived. As previously described, we recently entered into a supply agreement with Gedeon Richter, a non-U.S. based company, to manufacture the API for Proellex, for final packaging in the United States. We are in the process of obtaining clarification with respect to the domestic production requirement from NIH or, if necessary, a waiver and acknowledgement of the current commercial development plan. If NIH does not grant the acknowledgement and either clarify, or grant us a waiver with respect to this domestic production requirement, we may be required to either engage another manufacturer to make the API for Proellex or risk being in breach of the license agreement. Should NIH terminate the license agreement, we would lose all rights to commercialize Proellex, which would harm our business. We also have five patent applications pending in the United States and one foreign PCT application that cover various formulations of Proellex and methods of using Proellex. There is a third party individual patent holder that claims priority over our patent application for Androxal. A third party individual holds two issued patents related to the use of an anti-estrogen such as clomiphene citrate and others for use in the treatment of androgen deficiency and disorders related thereto. In our prior filings with the SEC, we have described our request to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or PTO, for re-examination of one of these patents based on prior art. The third party amended the claims in the reexamination proceedings, which has since led the PTO to determine that the amended claims are patentable in view of those publications that were under consideration and a reexamination certificate was issued. However, we believe that the amended claims are invalid based on additional prior art publications, and our request for reexamination by the PTO in light of a number of these additional publications and other publications cited by the PTO, has been granted. We also believe that the -20- Table of Contents second of these two patents is invalid in view of published prior art not yet considered by the PTO. A request for reexamination of this patent is pending. Nevertheless, there is no assurance that either patent will ultimately be found invalid over the prior art. If such patents are not invalidated, we may be required to obtain a license from the holder of such patents in order to develop Androxal further. If such licenses were not available on acceptable terms or at all, we may not be able to successfully commercialize Androxal. We cannot assure that our manufacture, use or sale of our product candidates will not infringe on the patent rights of others. There can be no assurance that the manufacture, use or sale of any of our product candidates will not infringe the patent rights of others. We may be unable to avoid infringement of the patent rights of others and may be required to seek a license, defend an infringement action or challenge the validity of the patents in court. There can be no assurance that a license to the allegedly infringed patents will be available to us on terms and conditions acceptable to us, if at all, or that we will prevail in any patent litigation. Patent litigation is extremely costly and time-consuming, and there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient resources to defend any possible litigation related to such infringement. If we do not obtain a license on acceptable terms under such patents, or are found liable for infringement, or are not able to have such patents declared invalid, we may be liable for significant money damages, may encounter significant delays in bringing our product candidates to market, or may be precluded from participating in the manufacture, use or sale of any such product candidates, any of which would materially and adversely affect our business. A dispute regarding the infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of others could be costly and result in delays in our research and development activities. Our commercial success also depends upon our ability to develop and manufacture our product candidates and market and sell drugs, if any, and conduct our research and development activities without infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. We may be exposed to future litigation by others based on claims that our product candidates, technologies or activities infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Numerous United States and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications owned by others also exist in the therapeutic areas in, and for the therapeutic targets for, which we are developing drugs. These could materially affect our ability to develop our product candidates or sell drugs, and our activities, or those of our licensor or future collaborators, could be determined to infringe these patents. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that our drug candidates or technologies may infringe. There also may be existing patents, of which we are not aware, that our product candidates or technologies may infringe. Further, there may be issued patents and pending patent applications in fields relevant to our business, of which we are or may become aware, that we believe we do not infringe or that we believe are invalid or relate to immaterial portions of our overall drug discovery and development efforts. We cannot assure you that others holding any of these patents or patent applications will not assert infringement claims against us for damages or seeking to enjoin our activities. We also cannot assure you that, in the event of litigation, we will be able to successfully assert any belief we may have as to non-infringement, invalidity or immateriality, or that any infringement claims will be resolved in our favor. In addition, others may infringe or misappropriate our proprietary rights, and we may have to institute costly legal action to protect our intellectual property rights. We may not be able to afford the costs of enforcing or defending our intellectual property rights against others. There could also be significant litigation and other administrative proceedings in our industry that affect us regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Any legal action or administrative action against us, or our collaborators, claiming damages or seeking to enjoin commercial activities relating to our drug discovery and development programs could: • require us, or potential collaborators, to obtain a license to continue to use, manufacture or market the affected drugs, methods or processes, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; • prevent us from importing, making, using, selling or offering to sell the subject matter claimed in patents held by others and subject to potential liability for damages; or • consume a substantial portion of our managerial, scientific and financial resources; or be costly, regardless of the outcome. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of pre-trial documents and witness discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. -21- Table of Contents We face substantial uncertainty in our ability to protect our patents and proprietary technology. Our ability to commercialize our products will depend, in part, on our or our licensor’s ability to obtain patents, to enforce those patents and preserve trade secrets, and to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. The patent positions of biopharmaceutical companies are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. There can be no assurance that: • Patent applications for and relating to our products, Proellex and Androxal, will result in issued patents; • Patent protection will be secured for any particular technology; • Any patents that have been or may be issued to us, such as our pending patent applications relating to Proellex or Androxal, or any patents that have been or may be issued to our licensor, such as the patent(s) and application(s) underlying our Proellex compound, when issued, will be valid and enforceable; • any patents will provide meaningful protection to us; • others will not be able to design around the patents; or • our patents will provide a competitive advantage or have commercial application. The failure to obtain and maintain adequate patent protection would have a material adverse effect on us and may adversely affect our ability to enter into, or affect the terms of, any arrangement for the marketing of any product. We cannot assure that our patents will not be challenged by others. There can be no assurance that patents owned by or licensed to us will not be challenged by others. We could incur substantial costs in proceedings, including interference proceedings before the PTO and comparable proceedings before similar agencies in other countries in connection with any claims that may arise in the future. These proceedings could result in adverse decisions about the patentability of our or our licensor’s inventions and products, as well as about the enforceability, validity or scope of protection afforded by the patents. Any adverse decisions about the patentability of our product candidates could cause us to either lose rights to develop and commercialize our product candidates or to license such rights at substantial cost to us. In addition, even if we were successful in such proceedings, the cost and delay of such proceedings would most likely have a material adverse effect on our business. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information, may not adequately protect our intellectual property, and will not prevent third parties from independently discovering technology similar to or in competition with our intellectual property. We rely on trade secrets and other unpatented proprietary information in our product development activities. To the extent we rely on trade secrets and unpatented know-how to maintain our competitive technological position, there can be no assurance that others may not independently develop the same or similar technologies. We seek to protect trade secrets and proprietary knowledge, in part, through confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, advisors, collaborators and contractors. Nevertheless, these agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of our confidential information and may not provide us with an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of such information. If our employees, scientific consultants, advisors, collaborators or contractors develop inventions or processes independently that may be applicable to our technologies, product candidates or products, disputes may arise about ownership of proprietary rights to those inventions and processes. Such inventions and processes will not necessarily become our property, but may remain the property of those persons or their employers. Protracted and costly litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights. If we fail to obtain or maintain trade secret protection for any reason, the competition we face could increase, reducing our potential revenues and adversely affecting our ability to attain or maintain profitability. We cannot protect our intellectual property rights throughout the world. Filing, prosecuting, and defending patents on all of our drug discovery technologies and all of our potential drug candidates throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive. Competitors may use our technologies to develop their own drugs in jurisdictions where we have not obtained patent protection. These drugs may compete with our drugs, if any, and may not be covered by any of our patent claims or other intellectual property rights. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. Many countries, including certain countries in Europe, have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner may be compelled to grant licenses to third parties (for example, the patent owner has failed to “work” the invention in that country or the third party has patented improvements). In addition, many countries limit the enforceability -22- Table of Contents of patents against government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, the patent owner may have limited remedies, which could materially diminish the value of the patent. Compulsory licensing of life-saving drugs is also becoming increasingly popular in developing countries either through direct legislation or international initiatives. Such compulsory licenses could be extended to include some of our drug candidates, which could limit our potential revenue opportunities. Moreover, the legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the aggressive enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, particularly those relating to biotechnology and/or pharmaceuticals, which makes it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our patents. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial cost and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business. Risks Relating to our Securities Our stock price will likely be volatile, and your investment in our stock could decline in value. Our stock price has fluctuated historically. From January 1, 2005 to March 6, 2007, the market price of our stock was as low as $2.79 per share and as high as $14.67 per share. Very few biotechnology drug candidates being tested will ultimately receive FDA approval, and a biotechnology company may experience a significant drop in its stock price based on a clinical trial result or regulatory action. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly, depending on a variety of factors, including: • the success or failure of, or other results or decisions affecting, our clinical trials; • the timing of the discovery of drug leads and the development of our drug candidates; • the entrance into a new collaboration or the modification or termination of an existing collaboration; • changes in our research and development budget or the research and development budgets of our existing or potential collaborators; • the introduction of new drug discovery techniques or the introduction or withdrawal of drugs by others that target the same diseases and conditions that we or our collaborators target; • regulatory actions; and • expenses related to, and the results of, litigation and other proceedings relating to intellectual property rights or other matters. We are not able to control all of these factors. Period-to-period comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily indicative of our future performance. In addition, if our revenues or results of operations in a particular period do not meet stockholders’ or analysts’ expectations, our stock price may decline and such decline could be significant. Any future equity or debt issuances by us may have dilutive or adverse effects on our existing stockholders. We have financed our operations, and we expect to continue to finance our operations, primarily by issuing and selling our common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for shares of our common stock. In light of our need for additional financing, we may issue additional shares of common stock or convertible securities that could dilute your ownership in our company and may include terms that give new investors rights that are superior to yours. For example, we completed a public offering in February 2007 of 2,610,000 shares of our common stock at a purchase price of $13.75 per share. This public offering represented 52% of our current shelf registration of 5,000,000 shares. Moreover, any issuances by us of equity securities may be at or below the prevailing market price of our common stock and in any event may have a dilutive impact on your ownership interest, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We may also raise additional funds through the incurrence of debt, and the holders of any debt we may issue would have rights superior to your rights in the event we are not successful and are forced to seek the protection of bankruptcy laws. Our rights agreement and certain provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in management or a takeover attempt that you may consider to be in your best interest. -23- Table of Contents We have adopted certain anti-takeover provisions, including a Rights Agreement, dated as of September 1, 1999, between us and Computershare Trust Company, Inc. (as successor in interest to Harris Trust & Savings Bank), as Rights Agent. The Rights Agreement will cause substantial dilution to any person who attempts to acquire us in a manner or on terms not approved by our board of directors. The Rights Agreement and Certificate of Designations for the Series One Junior Participating Preferred Stock dated September 2, 1999, as well as other provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and under Delaware law, could delay or prevent the removal of directors and other management and could make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us that you may consider to be in your best interest. For example, these provisions: • allow our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; • limit who can call a special meeting of stockholders; and • establish advance notice requirements for nomination for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters to be acted upon at stockholder meetings. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 