Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not currently believe are material may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks occur, our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows could suffer, and the trading price of our common stock and our market capitalization could decline. Our revenues and operating results from quarter to quarter and year to year have varied in the past and our future operating results may continue to fluctuate significantly. Factors that contribute to fluctuations in our revenues and operating results include: • cyclicality in the market for semiconductor manufacturing equipment; • rates at which our chipmaker customers take delivery of photolithography tools from our lithography tool manufacturer customers; • rates at which lithography tool manufacturer customers take delivery of light source systems from us; • timing and size of orders from our customers; • the ability of our customers to pay for products purchased from us; • our abilities to manage customer satisfaction and product reliability, and to provide effective field support to our customers; • changing or adverse global economic conditions, including their potential effects on our customers, suppliers, ability to sell products, and investments, and on energy prices, inflation, deflation, recession, unemployment, consumer confidence and demand, turmoil in the credit markets and financial services industry, and credit availability; • global demand for semiconductors in general and, in particular, for leading edge devices with smaller circuit geometries; • improved or reduced market penetration by our competitors; • demand for reduced product lead time from our customers; • the mix of light source models, and the level of installed base products revenues in our total revenues; • changes in the price and profitability of our products; • our ability to develop and implement new technologies and introduce new products that meet our customers’ needs; • research and development costs incurred to develop new technologies; • utilization rates of light sources by our chipmaker customers and pulse usage which affect our installed base products revenues and costs; • variability in amount and timing of parts replacement costs under our OnPulse contracts; • demand for TCZ’s production tool for LTPS processing in the manufacture of flat panel displays; • global demand for flat panel displays in general and, in particular, for OLED displays; • our ability to manage our manufacturing and inventory requirements, including our inventory levels and controls at our widely dispersed operations; • the financial condition of our suppliers which, if negative, could affect their ability to supply us with the parts that we need to manufacture our products; 12 Table of Contents • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and possible protectionist measures in the countries in which we do business; • our investments in marketable securities; • changes in our effective tax rate; • worldwide political instability; • intellectual property protection; and • potential impairments to our goodwill or long-lived assets. Prior to 2007, we derived the majority of our revenues from selling light source systems used in semiconductor manufacturing. In 2007, 2008 and 2009, our light source systems revenue represented 47%, 34% and 22% of total revenue, respectively. We expect that light source system revenue will continue to represent less than half of our total revenue due to higher growth rates in revenue associated with our installed base products. In recent years, chipmakers have been controlling the number of new tools they need to purchase by improving their manufacturing efficiency, utilization and repurposing of existing tools. For those reasons, we anticipate ongoing increases in utilization rates of our growing installed base. As our installed base of light source systems grows, the product revenues generated by the operation of these light sources have a significant effect on our business operations. The revenues from the operation of our installed base of light source systems depend on the rate at which our customers use these light source systems. Our operating results for a particular period may be adversely affected if our customers reduce usage rates, or change their buying patterns, or if we incur higher parts replacement costs. Because we sell a limited number of light source system products, the precise timing for recognizing revenue from an order may have a significant effect on our total revenue for a particular period. As is the practice in our industry, our customers may cancel or reschedule orders with little or no penalty. Orders expected in one quarter could shift to another period due to changes in the anticipated timing of our customers’ purchase decisions or rescheduled delivery dates requested by our customers. Our operating results for a particular quarter or year may be adversely affected if our customers cancel or reschedule orders, or if we cannot fill orders in time due to unexpected delays in manufacturing, testing, shipping, or product acceptance. Our light source systems used in a production environment generate product revenues based on system usage, which may also vary period to period. Additionally, accounting guidance may require us to defer revenue associated with contracts that contain multiple deliverables. We manage our expense levels based, in large part, on expected future revenues. As a result, if our actual revenue decreases below the level we expect, or we are not successful in aligning our manufacturing cost structure with decreasing production levels, our operating results will be adversely affected. As a result of these or other factors, we could fail to achieve our expectations as to future revenue, gross profit and gross margin, operating income, net income, earnings per share, and cash flows. Our failure to meet the performance expectations set and published by external sources could result in a sudden and significant drop in the price of our stock, particularly on a short- term basis, and could negatively affect the value of any investment in our stock. Our business depends on the semiconductor and the semiconductor capital equipment industries, which are volatile and unpredictable. We derive the majority of our revenues from our lithography tool manufacturer customers who, as original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”), incorporate our light source systems in photolithography tools that they sell to semiconductor manufacturers, or chipmakers, and from our chipmaker customers who purchase installed base products directly from us in support of their light source systems. Like us, our OEM customers depend on market demand for their products from the chipmakers who supply the many products using semiconductors. This market demand can be volatile and unpredictable and can affect our ability to accurately predict future revenue 13 Table of Contents and, therefore, our ability to manage our future expense levels. When cyclical fluctuations result in lower than expected revenue levels, operating results may be adversely affected and cost reduction actions may be necessary in order for us to remain competitive and financially stable. During a down cycle or slowdown, we must adjust our cost and expense structure to prevailing market conditions while maintaining our longer term strategies and motivating and retaining our key employees. In contrast, during periods of rapid growth, we must quickly increase manufacturing capacity and personnel to meet our customers’ needs. We can provide no assurance that these objectives can be met in a timely manner in response to industry cycles. We are not able to predict with any certainty the duration of any industry cycle or the timing or order of magnitude of any recovery from a down cycle or slowdown. Downturns in the semiconductor industry often result in decreases in demand for semiconductor manufacturing equipment, including the photolithography tools that our OEM customers produce. Downturns in the semiconductor industry have generally had severe effects on the demand for semiconductor manufacturing equipment and to a lesser extent, the associated installed base products. Fluctuating levels of investment by chipmakers and resulting pricing volatility will continue to materially affect our aggregate bookings, revenues and operating results. Even during periods of reduced revenues, we believe we must continue to invest in research and development and maintain extensive ongoing worldwide customer support capabilities to meet our customers’ needs and to remain competitive. Continued spending to further these objectives may temporarily harm our financial results. Semiconductor industry downturns and slowdowns will likely continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Market conditions in the semiconductor industry and our OEM customers’ production efficiency can cause them to expand or reduce their orders for new light source systems as they try to manage their inventories and production requirements. We continue to work closely with our OEM customers to better understand these issues. However, we cannot guarantee that we will be successful in understanding our OEM customers’ inventory management or production requirements or that our OEM customers will not build up an excess inventory of light source systems. If our OEM customers retain an excess inventory of light source systems, our revenue could be reduced in future periods as the excess inventory is utilized, which could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. If our OEM customers demand shorter product lead times to improve their inventory and cash positions, our inventory management and cash position may be negatively affected, which may adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. A significant percentage of our revenue is derived from sales to a limited number of customers, and if we are not able to retain these customers, or they reschedule, reduce or cancel orders, or delay or default on payments, we may experience material adverse effects on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Two large companies, ASML and Nikon, dominate the photolithography tool business. ASML, Nikon and Samsung, one of our chipmaker customers that purchase our installed base products, accounted for the following percentages of our revenues during the periods indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 ASML 15 % 22 % 33 % Nikon 18 % 20 % 19 % Samsung 13 % 10 % 7 % 46 % 52 % 59 % 14 Table of Contents We expect that sales to these customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenue in the foreseeable future. None of our customers are obligated to purchase a minimum number of our products in the aggregate or during any particular period. We can provide no assurance that any of our customers will continue to purchase our products at past or current levels. Sales to any of these customers may be affected by many factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • changes in global economic or market conditions affecting the semiconductor or the photolithography tool industries; • a change in a customer’s competitive position in its industry; • a customer experiencing production problems; • a decision to purchase light sources or related products from other suppliers; • a change in a customer’s production or utilization rate; and • a decline in a customer’s financial condition. These companies accounted for the following percentages of our total accounts receivable at the dates indicated: December 31, 2009 2008 ASML 14 % 32 % Nikon 12 % 23 % Samsung 6 % 4 % 32 % 59 % Although our overall risk is greater due to the downturn in the global economy, we believe there is limited credit risk exposure for us with these companies who continue to demonstrate sound creditworthiness. However, our ability to generate future revenue and collect accounts receivable from them is dependent on their ongoing financial condition and liquidity. The loss of any significant business from, or production problems for, any one of these customers may have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Our revenue is derived from the sale of our light source systems and of products in support of the installed base of light source systems being used in production. We expect sales of our excimer light source systems, including KrF and ArF systems, and the products in support of the installed base of light source systems to continue to account for a majority of our revenues in the near term. Continued market acceptance of our light source systems and installed base products is, therefore, critical to our future success. The rate at which chipmakers adopt excimer light sources may vary, for reasons including: • performance of ArF immersion-specific resists; • potential shortages of specialized materials used in DUV optics; • the productivity of double-patterning ArF lithography tools; • consolidation of chipmakers; and • the level of demand for chips with ever-smaller feature sizes. 15 Table of Contents We cannot guarantee that these factors can or will be overcome or that the demand for our excimer light source systems and installed base products will not be materially reduced. The demand for our light source systems and installed base products, and therefore our operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: • a decline in demand for our customers’ DUV photolithography tools; • a failure to achieve continued market acceptance of our products; • a failure to manage customer satisfaction, product reliability, or maintain the effectiveness of direct field support; • a failure to release enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis; • a decline in chipmaker light source utilization rates or retirement of light sources in our installed base; • a deterioration in global economic conditions; • the introduction of one or more improved versions of products by a competitor in the market in which we participate; and • technological changes that we are unable to address with our products. Global economic conditions could affect our revenues and operating results. We cannot predict either the depth or the duration of an economic downturn or the speed and sustainability of an economic recovery in the United States or other key global markets. A general weakening of, or declining corporate or consumer confidence in, the global economy, or a reduction in corporate or consumer spending, could delay or significantly decrease purchases of our products by our customers, which are driven in part by indirect consumer demand for the electronic devices that contain semiconductor chips. It could also decrease revenues from our installed base products by causing our chipmaker customers to reduce their usage rates. Our revenues and operating results will be affected by uncertain or changing economic and market conditions including inflation, deflation, prolonged weak consumer demand or other changes which may affect the principal markets in which we conduct business. If economic or market conditions in the United States or other key global markets deteriorate, we may experience material adverse effects on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Adverse economic and market conditions could also harm our business by negatively affecting the parties with whom we do business, including our business partners, our customers and our suppliers. These conditions could impair the ability of our customers to pay for products they have purchased from us. As a result, allowances for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable from our customers may increase. In addition, our suppliers may experience financial difficulties that could negatively affect their operations and their ability to supply us with the parts we need to manufacture our products. We depend on a few key suppliers for purchasing components and subassemblies that are included in our products. We purchase a limited number of components and subassemblies included in our light source systems and installed base products from a single supplier or a small group of suppliers. For certain optical, control system and pulse power components and subassemblies used in our light source systems and installed base products, we currently utilize a single supplier. To reduce the risk associated with this single supplier, we have supply agreements in place and carry a strategic inventory of these components. Strategic inventories are managed as a percentage of future demand. We also have vendor-managed inventory of critical components to further reduce the risk of a single supplier. In addition, we contract for the manufacture of various subassemblies of our products and depend on our contract manufacturers to deliver to our required specifications, schedule, and quality standards. Further, some of our suppliers have specialized in supplying equipment or manufacturing 16 Table of Contents services to semiconductor equipment manufacturers and, therefore, are susceptible to industry fluctuations and subject to the same risks and uncertainties regarding their ability to respond to changing market and global economic conditions. Because many of these suppliers reduce their workforce in an industry downturn and rehire in an upturn, they may not be able to meet our requirements or respond quickly enough as an upturn begins and gains momentum. Due to the nature of our product development requirements, these key suppliers must rapidly advance their own technologies and production capabilities in order to support the introduction schedule of our new products. These suppliers may not be able to provide new modules and subassemblies when they are needed to satisfy our manufacturing and delivery schedules. These suppliers may also be adversely affected by economic conditions, which could result in a lack of available capital and limit their ability to access such capital, if needed, to fund their operations. In addition, if we cannot purchase enough of these materials, components or subassemblies, or if these items do not meet our quality standards, there could be delays or reductions in our product shipments, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We depend on the introduction of new products for our success, and we are subject to risks associated with rapid technological change. Rapid technological changes in semiconductor manufacturing processes subject us to increased pressure to develop technological advances which enable such processes. We believe that our future success depends in part upon our ability to develop, manufacture, and support new light source products with improved capabilities on a timely basis and to continue to enhance our existing light source systems and process capabilities. Due to the risks inherent in transitioning to new products, we must forecast accurate demand for new products while managing the transition from established products. After our chipmaker customers have built their capacity to levels appropriate to meet existing demand, their demand for our light source products will depend, in part, on their sales forecasts, their estimates regarding the duration and magnitude of the current industry cycle and whether their projected manufacturing process yields will enable ongoing investments at a suitable level of capacity. To provide our customers with more productive and lower cost of operation systems, our existing light source products and their process capabilities must be enhanced, and we must develop and manufacture new products to serve other semiconductor applications and to continue to grow our business. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to manage our business growth effectively. We may not be able to develop and introduce new products or enhancements to our existing products and processes in a timely or cost effective manner that satisfies customer needs or achieves market acceptance. Development of new products and enhancements to existing products represent significant investments of our resources, and there is no guarantee that we will realize a return on these investments. Further, we may not be able to effectively integrate new products and applications into our current operations. Any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We are currently developing EUV source technology for chip manufacturing. In the third quarter of 2009, we shipped the first prototype EUV source to ASML. We are currently integrating and testing the prototype source into an ASML EUV lithography scanner. If we are not able to meet customer specifications, or have reliability or quality problems, or if follow on pilot and eventually commercial systems are not introduced on time, we may experience reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, delays in acceptance of and payment for new products, and additional service and warranty expenses. Any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Current technologies which are still being commercialized, such as EUV, and future technologies such as nano-imprint lithography, and certain maskless lithography techniques may render our KrF and ArF excimer light source products obsolete. We must manage product transitions, as the introduction of new products could have a negative adverse affect our sales of existing products. 17 Table of Contents TCZ could fail to penetrate the flat panel display market and may not achieve profitability. Effective January 15, 2010, we acquired full ownership of TCZ. The manufacture of flat panel displays is a new market for us and involves numerous risks. TCZ has shipped, installed and is currently testing its first production system for flat panel display fabrication. If this system does not meet customer specifications or the customer decides not to place follow-on orders for additional systems, there is no guarantee that TCZ will be able to materially penetrate this market or ever achieve profitability. To the extent TCZ is unable to achieve profitability, or we are obligated to provide increasing financial resources to support TCZ’s operations, our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We face competition from one company in the photolithography tool market and may face competition from additional competitors who enter the market. Our future performance depends, in part, upon our ability to continue to compete successfully worldwide. The principal elements of competition in our markets are the technical performance characteristics of light source products and the operating efficiency of the system, which is based on availability, reliability, performance efficiency, cost of ownership, and overall quality. We currently have one competitor, Gigaphoton, that sells light sources for DUV photolithography applications. Gigaphoton is a joint venture between two large companies, Komatsu and Ushio, and is headquartered in Japan. Our customers have purchased products from Gigaphoton and have qualified Gigaphoton’s light sources for use with their products. Additionally, Gigaphoton has been qualified by a number of chipmakers in Europe, Japan, other regions in Asia, and the U.S., and has an installed base of light sources at chipmakers in these regions. Future competitors may develop systems and products that are competitive to our products. This competition may affect our ability to sell our products. Larger companies with substantially greater resources, such as other manufacturers of industrial light sources for advanced lithography, may attempt to sell competitive products to our customers. Potential competitors may also be attracted to our growing installed base of light sources which represents a significant revenue stream for us, and they may attempt to supply replacement parts to our customer base. If any existing or future competitors gain market acceptance, we could lose market share and our growth could slow or decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We must effectively manage changes in our business. In order to respond to the business cycles of the semiconductor industry and overall economic conditions, we must constantly adjust our plans and cost structure. As the semiconductor equipment industry cycle moves between contraction and growth and the condition of the global economy changes, we need to: • quickly adapt to changing sales and marketing channels; • effectively manage our inventory levels; • closely manage our global operations and cost structure; • attract, train, retain and motivate key personnel; • improve our product reliability through quality control, order fulfillment and customer support capabilities; and • improve our processes and other internal management systems. If we fail to effectively manage changes in our business, we may experience a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. 18 Table of Contents Any failure to manage our inventory levels, particularly during adverse economic conditions, and our inventory controls at our widely dispersed operations could adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We need to continually evaluate and monitor the adequacy of our inventory levels. We also need to closely manage the levels of obsolete and excess parts. We have inventory located at warehouses at our corporate office in the United States and at bonded warehouses near our subsidiaries in Korea, Taiwan and Europe. The success of our business depends to a significant degree on our ability to maintain or increase the sales of our products in the markets in which we do business. If we misjudge the market or demand for our products or the overall condition of the global economy, our revenues may decline significantly, which could result in excess inventory levels and unnecessary use of cash. As a result of such excess inventory, we may be required to significantly write down the value of our inventory, which would negatively affect our operating results and financial condition. We also need to continually evaluate the risk of loss of inventory in bonded warehouses. We could also sustain a loss in the event of a catastrophe in any of the locations where we maintain our inventory or if the warehouse company’s insurance is inadequate to cover such losses. We will be required to continually analyze the sufficiency of our inventory distribution systems in order to support our operations. We may not adequately anticipate all of the changing demands that will be imposed on these systems. An inability or failure to update our internal inventory distribution systems or procedures, as required, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. International operations expose us to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations for all foreign currencies in which we do business, and we may be materially adversely affected by these fluctuations. We have international subsidiaries that operate in foreign currencies. All of our international subsidiaries purchase inventory in U.S. Dollars from either our manufacturing facility in San Diego or from our Korean subsidiary and, in many cases, resell these products to their customers in their local currency. In addition, our TCZ subsidiary purchases certain inventory in Euros. We hedge the foreign currency risks associated with these intercompany transactions by entering into forward contracts. Although we enter into such forward contracts, they may not be adequate to eliminate the risk of foreign currency exchange rate exposures. Prior to 2009, our hedging program only managed our exposure to the Japanese Yen. In the first quarter of 2009, we expanded our hedging program to include the Korean Won, the Euro and the Taiwanese Dollar due to growth in our exposure to these currencies driven primarily by increased intercompany payable balances of our international subsidiaries denominated in U.S. Dollars. These increased intercompany payable balances resulted from our initiative to better serve customers by providing faster replacement parts availability, which caused increased inventory levels at our international subsidiaries. In addition to expanding our foreign currency hedging program, we have moved some of the inventory previously held by our international subsidiaries into bonded warehouses in Korea, Taiwan and Europe that are controlled by our corporate office. Moving inventory into these bonded warehouses returned title of the inventory to our corporate office in San Diego, which reduced the intercompany payable balances denominated in U.S. Dollars of our international subsidiaries. As a result, this decreased our foreign currency exposures in these locations and reduced the level of hedges required. We have taken steps to mitigate our foreign currency exchange risks; however, these steps may fail to sufficiently hedge or otherwise manage our foreign currency risks properly and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. International operations also expose us to currency fluctuations as we translate the financial statements of our international subsidiaries to U.S. Dollars. 19 Table of Contents Failure to effectively maintain our direct service support operations could have a material adverse effect on our business. We believe it is critical for us to provide quick and responsive support directly to our chipmaker and direct customers who use our light source products in their photolithography systems. It is also essential to have well trained field service engineers to provide the high level of support that our customers have come to expect. Accordingly, we have an ongoing effort to develop our direct support system with service locations in Europe, Korea, Japan, China, Singapore, Taiwan and the U.S. This requires us to do the following: • recruit and train qualified support service personnel; and • maintain effective and highly trained resources who can provide support to our customers in various countries. We may not be able to attract and train qualified personnel to maintain our direct support operations successfully. Further, we may incur significant costs in providing this support. Failure to implement our direct support operation effectively could harm our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We are dependent on our suppliers and manufacturing facilities to assemble and test our products. Operations at our primary manufacturing facility in San Diego and our refurbishment facility in Korea and operations at our suppliers are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including work stoppages, terrorism, fire, earthquake, energy shortages, flooding or other natural disasters. Such disruptions could cause delays in shipments of our products to our customers. Our San Diego facility, where we build our light source systems and replacement parts, poses the greatest risk. We provide no assurance that alternate production capacity would be available if a major disruption were to occur or that, if it were available, it could be obtained on favorable terms, or at all. Such disruption could result in cancellation of orders or loss of customers, which would have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We depend on key personnel, particularly management and technical personnel, who may be difficult to attract and retain. We are highly dependent on the services of many key employees in various areas, including: • research and development; • engineering; • sales and marketing; • direct service support; • manufacturing; and • management or leadership roles. In particular, there are a limited number of experts in excimer light source technology, and we require highly skilled hardware and software engineers. Competition for qualified personnel is intense and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel. We believe that our future growth and operating results will depend on: • the continued services of our research and development, engineering, sales and marketing, direct service support, manufacturing, and management personnel; • our ability to attract, train and retain highly-skilled key personnel, particularly in periods following reductions in our workforce, and uncertainty regarding the outlook for our business; and • the ability of key management to continue to expand, motivate and manage our employee base. 20 Table of Contents Stock option grants may not be viewed by key employees as a financial incentive during periods when stock price volatility could cause our stock price to fall below the option’s exercise price, reducing the effectiveness of stock options as a means to retain and incentivize these employees. Grants to our key employees have an exercise price per share at least equal to the fair market value of our common stock on the date of grant. If we are unable to hire, train and retain key personnel as required, our operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. Economic, political, regulatory and other events in geographic areas where we have significant revenue or operations could interfere with our business. We serve a global market and a large portion of our revenue is derived from customers outside of the U.S. We expect our international sales to continue to account for the majority of our total revenues. In order to support our foreign customers, we maintain a refurbishment facility in Korea as well as field support facilities in Japan, the Netherlands, China, Singapore and Taiwan. We may not be able to manage our operations to address and support our global customers effectively. Further, our investments in these types of activities may not be viably competitive in the global market, or we may not be able to meet the support or manufacturing levels required by our global customers. Additionally, we are subject to risks inherent in doing business globally, including but not limited to: • fluctuations in exchange rates and currency controls; • political and economic conditions and instability, including economic turmoil in many parts of the world; • imposition of trade barriers and restrictions, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, including changes in tariff and freight rates, foreign customs and duties; • difficulty in coordinating our management and operations in different countries; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign subsidiary and branch operations; • limited intellectual property protection in some countries; • potentially adverse tax consequences in some countries; • the possibility of challenging accounts receivable collections; • in Asia, the risk of business interruption and damage from earthquakes or tsunamis; • the effect of acts of terrorism and war; • the burdens of complying with foreign laws, including regulatory structures and unexpected changes in regulatory environments; and • distribution costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation. A significant portion of our customers are located in Asia. Political turmoil, economic problems and currency fluctuations affecting Asia could increase our risk in that region. It has not been difficult for us to comply with U.S. export controls; however changes to these controls in the future could make it more difficult or impossible for us to export our products to many countries. There are certain risks for which we do not purchase insurance, including earthquake risk. Any of these vulnerabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Currently, none of our U.S. or international employees are members of a labor union; however if such employees decide to join a union, our cost of doing business could increase, and we could experience contract delays, difficulty in adapting to a changing regulatory and economic environment, cultural conflicts between unionized and non-unionized employees, strikes and work stoppages, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 21 Table of Contents Our ability to compete could be jeopardized if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights. These types of claims could seriously harm our business or require us to incur significant costs. We believe our success and ability to compete depend in part upon protecting our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure and other contractual agreements and technical measures to protect our proprietary rights. We own and have numerous patents pending in the U.S. and various foreign countries covering certain aspects of technology related to light sources and piezoelectric techniques. These patents will expire at various times through 2027. Our pending patent applications and any future applications might not be approved. Our patents may not provide us with a competitive advantage and may be successfully challenged by third parties. In addition, third parties’ patents might have an adverse effect on our ability to do business. Due to cost constraints, we do not seek international patent protection for all inventions that are covered by U.S. patents and patent applications. As a result, we do not have foreign patent protection for some of our inventions. Additionally, laws of some foreign countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold, including various countries in Asia, may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. Therefore, the likelihood of piracy of our technology and products is greater in these countries. Further, third parties might independently develop similar products, duplicate our products, or design around patents that are granted to us. Other companies or persons may file or have filed patent applications that are similar or identical to ours. As a result, we may have to participate in appropriate proceedings in the courts or the patent offices to determine the priority of inventions. These proceedings may determine that these third-party patent applications have priority over our patent applications. Loss of priority in these interference proceedings could result in substantial cost to us and loss of rights. We also rely on the following to protect our confidential information and our other intellectual property: • trade secret protection; • employee nondisclosure agreements; • third-party nondisclosure agreements; and • other intellectual property protection methods. However, we may not be successful in protecting our confidential information or intellectual property, particularly our trade secrets, because third parties may: • develop substantially the same proprietary information or techniques independently; • gain access to our trade secrets from unrelated third parties and/or without obligation of confidentiality; or • disclose our technology following expiration of their confidentiality obligation. We may be subject to patent litigation to enforce patents issued to us or defend ourselves against claimed infringement by our competitor or any other third party. Third parties have notified us in the past, and may notify us in the future, that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. Also, we have notified third parties in the past, and may notify them in the future, that they may be infringing our intellectual property rights. In the future, patent litigation may result due to a claim of infringement by our competitor or any other third party or may be necessary to enforce patents issued to us. Any such litigation could result in substantial cost to us and diversion from our primary business efforts, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial 22 Table of Contents condition and operating results. Furthermore, our customers and the end-users of our products might assert other claims for indemnification that arise from infringement claims against them. If these assertions are successful, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Instead of litigation, or as a result thereof, we may seek a license from third parties to use their intellectual property. However, we may not be able to obtain a license. Alternatively, we may design around the third party’s intellectual property rights or we may challenge these claims in legal proceedings. Any adverse determination in a legal proceeding could result in one or more of the following: • loss of our proprietary rights; • exposure to significant liabilities by other third parties; • a requirement that we get a license from third parties on terms that are not favorable to us or not available at all; or • an injunction that prohibits us from manufacturing or selling our products. Any of these actions could be costly and would divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Disputes may arise over the ownership of intellectual property resulting from our research and development activities that are partially funded by other parties. Funds from research and development arrangements with third parties have been used to pay for a portion of our research and development costs associated with the design and development of specific products. Additionally, funds from lithography tool manufacturers and chipmaker customers have been used to fund a portion of our research and development efforts. In connection with providing these research and development services, we try to make contractually clear who owns the intellectual property that results from such activities. Disputes over the ownership or rights to use or market the resulting intellectual property could arise between the funding organizations and us. Any dispute over ownership of the intellectual property we develop could restrict our ability to market our products and have a material adverse effect on our business. If our goodwill, definite lived intangible assets or our property, plant and equipment become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. We review our amortizable intangible assets, which are primarily patents, and our property, plant and equipment, for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is also tested for impairment at least annually and more often if certain triggering events or circumstances occur. Factors that may be considered to be a change in circumstances that would indicate the carrying value of our goodwill, amortizable intangible assets or our property, plant and equipment may not be recoverable include reduced future cash flow estimates for our company, a decline in our stock price and market capitalization, slower growth rates in our industry and adverse global economic conditions. If, as a result of our impairment test, it is determined that our goodwill, amortizable intangible assets or property plant and equipment is impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge in our financial statements during the period in which such impairment is determined, which may have a material adverse affect on our operating results. Our investments in marketable securities are subject to market, interest and credit risk that may reduce their value. The value of our investments in marketable securities may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates, downgrades in the creditworthiness of bonds we hold, turmoil in the credit markets and financial services industry and by other factors which may result in other than temporary declines in the value of our investments. Each of these events may cause us to record charges to reduce the carrying value of our investment portfolio, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. 23 Table of Contents Changes in our effective tax rate may have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial position and cash flows. Our future effective tax rate may be adversely affected by a number of factors including: • changes in available tax credits, particularly the federal research and development tax credit, which expired at the end of 2009 and has yet to be reinstated for 2010 and later years; • the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; • the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; • changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; • adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; • increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes; • changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, such as the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) Code Section 199 manufacturing deduction which currently provides a tax benefit; and • the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes. An adverse change in our future effective tax rate could in turn, adversely affect our operating results, financial position and cash flows. We may not have sufficient cash to fund our current operations and future growth plans. In February 2009, we paid approximately $143.2 million, including accrued interest, to redeem our outstanding convertible subordinated notes which had reached maturity. We believe that our cash resources remain sufficient for our planned operations; however, if global economic conditions deteriorate, our business conditions worsen, our plans change or other unanticipated events occur, we may need to raise additional cash through the establishment of financing facilities or the sale of equity or debt securities to fund our operations. Depending on market conditions, it could be difficult for us to raise the additional cash needed without incurring significant dilution of our existing stockholders or agreeing to significant restrictions on our ability to operate as currently planned. If we were unable to raise additional cash in such circumstances, we could be required to reduce costs further through the delay, reduction or curtailment of our operating plan, including further reductions in our global workforce or other cost reduction actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition or cash flows. We may acquire a business or enter a new market that will involve numerous risks. We may not be able to address these risks successfully without substantial expense, delay or other operational and financial challenges. The risks involved with mergers, acquisitions and joint ventures or entering a new market include the following: • diversion of management’s attention and resources to integrate the new business opportunity; • failure to retain key personnel; • customer dissatisfaction or performance problems with the acquired company or new product in a new market; • costs associated with acquisitions and joint ventures and the integration of acquired operations; • costs associated with developing, marketing, introducing and supporting a new product in a new market; • failure to commercialize purchased technologies; 24 Table of Contents • ability of the acquired companies, joint ventures or new markets to meet their financial projections; • assumption of unknown liabilities or other unanticipated events or circumstances; and • compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations, NASDAQ Stock Market rules and new accounting standards as they relate to the new company or joint venture. Mergers, acquisitions and joint ventures, as well as entry into new markets, are inherently subject to multiple significant risks, and the inability to effectively manage these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business. Further, any business that we acquire, any joint venture that we form or new market we may enter may not achieve anticipated revenues or operating results. We may experience difficulties with our enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system or other critical information systems that we use for the daily operations of our business. System failure or malfunction or loss of data contained in these information systems may result in disruption of our operations and result in our inability to process transactions, and this could adversely affect our financial results. System failure, malfunction or loss of data which is housed in our critical information systems could disrupt our ability to timely and accurately process transactions and produce key financial reports, including information on our operating results, financial position and cash flows. Any disruptions or difficulties that may occur in connection with our ERP system or other critical systems could also adversely affect our ability to complete important business processes such as the evaluation of our internal controls and attestation activities pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We also regularly upgrade our information systems hardware and software to better meet the information requirements needed to effectively manage our business. If we encounter unforeseen problems with regard to our ERP system or other critical information systems, including those encountered during system upgrades, our business could be adversely affected. Compliance with changing regulations and standards for accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including new SEC regulations, new NASDAQ Stock Market rules, new accounting requirements and the expected future requirement to transition to international financial reporting standards are creating uncertainty and additional complexities for companies such as ours. In particular, the Section 404 internal control evaluation requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 have added complexity and costs to our business and require a significant investment of our time and resources to complete each year. We take these requirements seriously and expect to continue to make every effort to ensure that we receive clean attestations on our internal controls each year from our outside auditors, but there is no guarantee that our efforts to do so will be successful. To maintain high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with all other evolving standards. These investments may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from strategic revenue generating and cost management activities. We are dependent on air transport to conduct our business and disruption of domestic and international air transport systems could adversely affect our business. We depend on regular and reliable air transportation on a worldwide basis for many of our routine business functions. If civil aviation in the U.S. or abroad is disrupted by terrorist activities or security responses to the threat of terrorism, regulatory compliance issues or for any other reason, our business could be adversely affected in the following ways: • supplies of raw materials and components for the manufacture of our products or our customers’ products may be disrupted; • we may not be able to deliver our products to our customers in a timely manner; 25 Table of Contents • we may not be able to provide timely service of or support for installed light sources for chipmakers; and • our sales and marketing efforts may be disrupted. We are subject to many standards and regulations of foreign governments and, even though we intend to comply, we may not always be in compliance with these rules, or we may be unable to design or redesign our products to comply with these rules. Many foreign government standards and regulations apply to our products and these standards and regulations are frequently being amended. Although we intend to meet all foreign standards and regulations, our products may not comply with all of them. Further, it might not be cost effective for us to redesign our products to comply with these foreign government standards and regulations. Our inability to design products to fully comply with foreign standards, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our chipmaker customers’ prolonged use of our products in high volume production may not produce the results they desire and, as a result, our reputation and that of our customers who supply photolithography tools to the chipmakers could be damaged in the semiconductor industry. Over time, our light source products may not meet our chipmaker customers’ production specifications or operating cost requirements after the light source has been used for a long period in high volume production. If any chipmaker cannot successfully achieve or sustain their volume production using our light sources, our reputation could be damaged with them and with lithography tool manufacturers. This would have a negative effect on our business. Our operations are subject to environmental and other government regulations that may expose us to liabilities for noncompliance. We are subject to federal, state and local regulations, such as regulations related to the environment, land use, public utility utilization and the fire code, in connection with the storage, handling, discharge and disposal of substances that we use in our manufacturing process and in our facilities. We believe that our activities comply with current government regulations that are applicable to our operations and current facilities. We may be required to purchase additional capital equipment or meet other requirements to comply with these government regulations in the future, if they change. Further, these government regulations may restrict us from expanding our operations. Adopting measures to comply with changes in the government regulations, our failure to comply with environmental and land use regulations, or restrictions on our ability to discharge hazardous substances, could subject us to future liability or cause our manufacturing operations to be reduced or stopped. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Our products are subject to potential product liability claims if personal injury or death results from their use. We are exposed to significant risks for product liability claims if personal injury or death results from the use of our products. We may experience material product liability losses in the future. We maintain insurance against product liability claims; however, our insurance coverage may not continue to be available on terms that are acceptable to us. This insurance coverage also may not adequately cover liabilities that we incur. Further, if our products are defective, we may be required to recall or redesign these products. A successful claim against us that exceeds our insurance coverage level, or any claim or product recall that results in adverse publicity against us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Trademark infringement claims against our registered and unregistered trademarks would be expensive and we may have to stop using such trademarks and pay damages. We have registered a number of trademarks including “CYMER” in the U.S. and in some other countries. We are also trying to register additional trademarks in the U.S. and in other countries. These registrations in other countries, or any new registrations we may undertake in the U.S., could be unsuccessful. 26 Table of Contents We use these trademarks in the course of our business and in advertising materials, which are distributed throughout the world. While we take precautions against trademark infringement before using our trademarks in new markets, we may be subject to claims of trademark infringement. The process of negotiating a settlement or coexistence agreement to allow us to continue using our trademarks in a particular market could be expensive or distract us from our primary business efforts, potentially adversely affecting our financial condition or operations. Furthermore, if we must undertake negotiations, and the negotiations are ultimately unsuccessful, we would either need to discontinue using the trademarks in the new market, risk facing litigation or potentially pay damages. Even if we ultimately prevail, litigation could be expensive or distract us from our primary business efforts. The price of our common stock has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate widely. The price of our common stock has historically been subject to significant fluctuations and could continue to fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors, including the risk factors contained in this report. Various factors may significantly affect the market price and volatility of our common stock, including: • the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results, including our net income, revenue and product gross margins; • conditions and trends in the light source device and other technology industries; • announcements of innovations in technology; • new products offered by us or our competitor; • developments of patents or proprietary rights; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • global political, economic, and market conditions, including a recession or economic deterioration; and • failure to properly manage any single or combination of risk factors listed in this section. Stock markets in the United States can experience extraordinary volatility. Severe price fluctuations in a company’s stock have frequently been followed by securities litigation. If such litigation were initiated against us, it may result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Some anti-takeover provisions contained in our articles of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Nevada law and our executive employment contracts, could impair a takeover attempt. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions which could have the effect (separately, or in combination) of rendering more difficult or discouraging a merger, acquisition or other change of control deemed undesirable by our Board of Directors. These include provisions: • authorizing blank check preferred stock, which could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; • limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; • requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our Board of Directors; • controlling the procedures for conduct of stockholder meetings and election and removal of directors; and • specifying that stockholders may not take action by written consent. 27 Table of Contents These provisions, alone or together, could deter or delay hostile takeovers, proxy contests and changes in control or management. As a Nevada corporation, we are subject to Nevada law. Nevada law does not grant stockholders the authority to call a special meeting unless the corporation’s articles of incorporation or bylaws otherwise provide; neither our articles of incorporation nor our bylaws contain such a provision. Nevada law may also limit the ability of certain stockholders to engage in certain business combinations with us and may limit the voting rights of stockholders who acquire 20% or more of our outstanding shares. Either limitation could discourage or increase the difficulty of an attempted merger, acquisition or other change of control. Additionally, we have employment agreements with certain officers under which severance payments would become payable in the event of specified terminations without cause or terminations under certain circumstances after a change in control. If such persons were terminated without cause or under certain circumstances after a change of control, and the severance payments under the current employment agreements were to become payable, the officers would receive certain payments and other benefits which depend on the individual officer’s employment agreement but generally include continued base salary and health insurance payments for a period of time, lump sum bonus payments and accelerated vesting of equity awards. Any provision of our articles of incorporation, bylaws, employment agreements or Nevada law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock in connection with such a transaction and also could affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. Sales of additional common stock and securities convertible into our common stock may dilute the voting power of current holders. We may issue equity securities in the future the terms and rights of which are superior to those of our common stock. Our articles of incorporation authorize the issuance of up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. These are “blank check” preferred shares, meaning that our Board of Directors is authorized, from time to time, to issue the shares and designate their voting, conversion and other rights, including rights superior, or preferential, to rights of already outstanding shares, all without stockholder consent. No preferred shares are outstanding, and we currently do not intend to issue any shares of preferred stock. Any shares of preferred stock that may be issued in the future could be given voting and conversion rights that could dilute the voting power and equity of existing holders of shares of common stock and have preferences over shares of common stock with respect to dividends and liquidation rights. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 