Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not currently believe are material may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our common stock and our market capitalization could decline. The current global economic recession could harm our revenues and operating results. The economies of the United States and other developed countries are currently in a recession. We cannot predict either the depth or the duration of this economic downturn. Our current operating plans are based on assumptions concerning levels of consumer and corporate spending. A general weakening of, or declining corporate or consumer confidence in, the global and domestic economy, or a reduction in corporate or consumer spending, could delay or significantly decrease purchases of our products by our customers, which are driven in part by indirect 16 Table of Contents consumer demand for the electronic devices that contain semiconductor chips. It could also decrease revenues from our installed base products by causing our chipmaker customers to reduce their usage rates. Our revenues and operating results will be affected by uncertain or changing economic and market conditions, including the continuing crises in global credit markets and financial services industries, inflation, deflation, a prolonged recession or other changes which may impact the principal markets in which we conduct business. If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in the United States or other key markets, remain in recession, or deteriorate further, we will experience material impacts on our business, operating results, and financial condition, which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. If economic conditions worsen, we may have to implement additional cost reduction measures. Adverse economic and market conditions could also harm our business by negatively affecting the parties with whom we do business, including our business partners, our customers and our suppliers. These conditions could impair the ability of our customers to pay for products they have purchased from us. As a result, allowances for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable from our customers may increase. In addition, our suppliers may experience financial difficulties that could negatively affect their operations and their ability to supply us with the parts we need to manufacture our products Our revenues and operating results from quarter to quarter and year to year have varied in the past and our future operating results may continue to fluctuate significantly. Factors that contribute to fluctuations in our revenues and operating results include: •changing global economic conditions, including rising energy prices, inflation, deflation, recession, unemployment, turmoil in the credit markets and financial services industry and credit availability; •the current global economic recession, including its potential effects on our customers, suppliers, ability to sell products internationally, investments, ability to obtain credit, and exacerbation of the other factors that contribute to fluctuations in our revenues and operating results; •global demand for semiconductors in general and, in particular, for leading edge devices with smaller circuit geometries; •cyclicality in the market for semiconductor manufacturing equipment; •rates at which our chipmaker customers take delivery of photolithography tools from our lithography tool manufacturer customers; •rates at which lithography tool manufacturer customers take delivery of light source systems from us; •timing and size of orders from our customers; •the ability of our customers to pay for products purchased from us; •our ability to manage customer satisfaction, product reliability, and provide effective field support to our customers; •increases or decreases in market penetration by our competitor; •demand for reduced product lead time from our customers; •the mix of light source models, and the level of installed base products revenues in our total revenues; •changes in the price and profitability of our products; 17 Table of Contents •our ability to develop and implement new technologies and introduce new products that meet our customers' needs; •utilization rates of light sources by our chipmaker customers and pulse usage which impact our installed base products revenues; •our ability to manage our manufacturing and inventory requirements including our inventory levels and controls at our widely dispersed operations; •the financial condition of our suppliers which, if negative, could impact their ability to supply us with the parts that we need to manufacture our products; •foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and possible protectionist measures in the countries in which we do business; •our investments in marketable securities; •changes in our effective tax rate; •worldwide political instability; •intellectual property protection; and •potential impairments to our goodwill or long-lived assets. We have historically derived the majority of our quarterly and annual revenues from selling light source systems and installed base products used in semiconductor manufacturing. In recent years, light source sales accounted for approximately half of our revenue until 2008, when light source sales fell to 34% of total revenue. Because we sell a limited number of light source system products, the precise timing for recognizing revenue from an order may have a significant impact on our total revenue for a particular period. As is the practice in our industry, our customers may cancel or reschedule orders with little or no penalty. Orders expected in one quarter could shift to another period due to changes in the anticipated timing of our customers' purchase decisions or rescheduled delivery dates requested by our customers. Our operating results for a particular quarter or year may be adversely affected if our customers cancel or reschedule orders, or if we cannot fill orders in time due to unexpected delays in manufacturing, testing, shipping, or product acceptance. In addition, our light source systems used in a production environment generate product revenues based on system usage. As our installed base of light source systems continues to grow, the product revenues generated by the operation of these light sources have a significant impact on our business operations. The revenues from the operation of our installed base of light source systems depend on the rate at which our customers use these light source systems. Our operating results for a particular period may be adversely affected if our customers reduce usage rates or change their buying patterns. We manage our expense levels based, in large part, on expected future revenues. As a result, our expenses are relatively fixed for the short term, and if our actual revenue decreases below the level we expect or we are not successful in aligning our manufacturing cost structure with decreasing production levels, our operating results will be adversely affected. As a result of these or other factors, we could fail to achieve our expectations as to future revenue, gross profit and gross margin, operating income, net income, earnings per share, and cash flows. Our failure to meet the performance expectations set and published by external sources could result in a sudden and significant drop in the price of our stock, particularly on a short-term basis, and could negatively affect the value of any investment in our stock. Our business depends on the semiconductor and the semiconductor capital equipment industries, which are volatile and unpredictable. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from our lithography tool manufacturer customers who, as original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), incorporate our light source systems in 18 Table of Contents photolithography tools that they sell to semiconductor manufacturers, or chipmakers, and from our chipmaker customers who purchase installed base products directly from us in support of their light source systems. Like us, our OEM customers depend on demand for their products from the chipmakers. The capital equipment and related operating expenditures of chipmakers depend on a number of factors, including the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors and the many products using semiconductors. That demand is volatile and unpredictable. As a result of the cyclicality of the semiconductor industry, the semiconductor capital equipment industry historically has experienced periodic ups and downs. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor and the semiconductor capital equipment industries affects our ability to accurately predict future revenue and therefore our ability to manage our future expense levels. When cyclical fluctuations result in lower than expected revenue levels, operating results may be adversely affected and cost reduction actions may be necessary in order for us to remain competitive and financially sound. During a down cycle or slowdown, we must be in a position to adjust our cost and expense structure to prevailing market conditions while maintaining our longer term strategies, continue to provide outstanding products and support to our customers, and motivate and retain our key employees. During periods of rapid growth, we must be able to increase manufacturing capacity and personnel to meet our customers' needs. We can provide no assurance that these objectives can be met in a timely manner in response to industry cycles. We are not able to predict with any certainty the duration of any industry cycle or the timing or order of magnitude of any recovery from a down cycle or slowdown. Downturns in the semiconductor industry often result in decreases in demand for semiconductor manufacturing equipment, including the photolithography tools that our OEM customers produce. Downturns in the semiconductor industry have generally had severe effects on the demand for semiconductor manufacturing equipment and to a lesser extent, the associated installed base products. Fluctuating levels of investment by chipmakers and resulting pricing volatility will continue to materially affect our aggregate bookings, revenues and operating results. Even during periods of reduced revenues we believe we must continue to invest in research and development and to maintain extensive ongoing worldwide customer support capabilities to meet our customers' needs and to remain competitive. Continued spending to further these objectives may temporarily harm our financial results. Semiconductor industry downturns and slowdowns will likely continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results from time to time, and our operating results may fall below the expectations of public market analysts or investors in future quarters. Any failure to meet such expectations could materially adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our OEM customers try to manage their inventories and production requirements to appropriate levels that reflect their expected sales to chipmakers. Market conditions in the semiconductor industry and our OEM customers' production efficiency can cause them to expand or reduce their orders for new light source systems as they try to manage their inventories and production requirements. We continue to work closely with our OEM customers to better understand these issues. However, we cannot guarantee that we will be successful in understanding our OEM customers' inventory management or production requirements or that our OEM customers will not build up an excess inventory of light source systems. If our OEM customers retain an excess inventory of light source systems, our revenue could be reduced in future periods as the excess inventory is utilized, which could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. If our OEM customers demand shorter product lead times to improve their inventory and cash positions, our inventory management and cash position may be negatively impacted, which may adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. 19 Table of Contents A significant percentage of our revenue is derived from sales to a limited number of customers, and if we are not able to retain these customers, or they reschedule, reduce or cancel orders, or delay or default on payments, our revenues would be reduced and our financial condition and cash flows would suffer. Two large companies, ASML and Nikon dominate the photolithography tool business. Collectively, ASML, Nikon and Samsung, one of our chipmaker customers that purchases our installed base products, accounted for the following percentage of our total revenue during the periods indicated: Year ended December 31, Customer: 2008 2007 2006 ASML 22 % 33 % 38 % Nikon 20 % 19 % 16 % Samsung 10 % 7 % 5 % Total 52 % 59 % 59 % We expect that sales to these customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenue in the foreseeable future. None of our customers are obligated to purchase a minimum number of our products in the aggregate or during any particular period. We can provide no assurance that any of our customers will continue to purchase our products at past or current levels. Sales to any of these customers may be affected by many factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: •a prolonged recession or further deterioration of the global economy; •a change in a customer's competitive position in its industry; •a customer experiencing production problems; •a decision to purchase light sources or related products from other suppliers; •changes in economic conditions in the semiconductor or the photolithography tool industries; and •a decline in a customer's financial condition. Collectively, these companies accounted for the following percentage of our total accounts receivable at the dates indicated: December 31, Customer: 2008 2007 ASML 32 % 31 % Nikon 23 % 25 % Samsung 4 % 2 % Total 59 % 58 % Although our business is not dependent upon a single customer, these three customers account for approximately 52% of total consolidated revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008 and approximately 59% of total accounts receivable at December 31, 2008. Although our overall risk is greater due to the downturn in the global economy, we believe there is limited credit risk exposure for us with these companies who continue to demonstrate sound credit worthiness. However, our ability to collect future revenue from them is dependent on their financial condition and liquidity. We maintain allowances for potential credit losses associated with the accounts receivable due from our customers, and such losses to date have not exceeded management's expectations. These 20 Table of Contents customers may experience financial difficulties under the current global economic recession and this could negatively impact their liquidity and their ability to pay. At varying degrees, the loss of any significant business from, or production problems for, any one of these customers would harm our business and financial condition. Our revenue is derived from the sale of our light source systems and of products in support of the installed base of light source systems being used in production. We sell excimer light source systems, including KrF and ArF systems, and installed base products. We expect these light source systems and the related products to continue to account for a substantial majority of our revenues in the near term. Continued market acceptance of our light source system products is, therefore, critical to our future success. Our excimer light sources are used in DUV photolithography equipment for the manufacture of semiconductor devices with features of 250 nm and smaller. The demand for our products depends in part on the rate at which chipmakers further adopt excimer light sources as the chosen light source for their photolithography tools and the rate at which they continue to manufacture devices with progressively smaller features. The rate with which chipmakers adopt excimer light sources may vary for a variety of reasons, including: •performance of new ArF immersion-specific resists; •potential shortages of specialized materials used in DUV optics; •the productivity of double-patterning ArF lithography tools; •consolidation of chipmakers; and •the level of demand for chips with ever-smaller feature sizes We cannot guarantee that these factors can or will be overcome or that the demand for our excimer light source products and installed base products will not be materially reduced. The demand for our light source products and installed base products, and therefore our operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: •a decline in demand for our customers' DUV photolithography tools; •a failure to achieve continued market acceptance of our products; •a failure to manage customer satisfaction, product reliability, or maintain the effectiveness of direct field support; •the introduction of one or more improved versions of products by a competitor in the market in which we participate; •technological changes that we are unable to address with our products; •a failure to release enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis; •a decline in chipmaker light source utilization rates or retirement of light sources in our installed base; and •a prolonged economic downturn or further deterioration in global economic conditions. 21 Table of Contents The redemption of our convertible subordinated notes in February 2009 will diminish our liquidity. In February 2009, we paid approximately $143.2 million including accrued interest to redeem our outstanding convertible subordinated notes which reached maturity in 2009. As a result, our total cash and investment balances are significantly lower than they were at December 31, 2008. We believe that our remaining cash resources will be sufficient for our planned operations, but if global economic conditions continue to deteriorate, our business conditions worsen, our plans change or other unanticipated events occur, we may need to raise additional cash through the establishment of financing facilities or the sale of equity or debt securities. Depending on the market conditions at the time, it could be difficult for us to raise the additional cash needed without incurring significant dilution or agreeing to significant restrictions on our ability to operate as currently planned. If we were unable to raise additional cash in such circumstances, we could be required to reduce costs further through the delay, reduction or curtailment of our plans, including further reductions in our global workforce or other cost reduction actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition or cash flows. We depend on a few key suppliers for purchasing components and subassemblies that are included in our products. We purchase a limited number of components and subassemblies included in our light source products from a single supplier or a small group of suppliers. For certain optical, control system and pulse power components and subassemblies used in our light source systems, we currently utilize a single supplier. To reduce the risk associated with this single supplier, we have supply agreements in place and carry a strategic inventory of these components. Strategic inventories are managed as a percentage of future demand. We also have vendor-managed inventory of critical components to further reduce the risk of a single supplier. In addition, we contract for the manufacture of various subassemblies of our products and depend on our contract manufacturers to deliver to our required specifications, schedule, and quality standards. Further, some of our suppliers have specialized in supplying equipment or manufacturing services to semiconductor equipment manufacturers and therefore are susceptible to industry ups and downs and subject to the same risks and uncertainties regarding their ability to respond to changing market and global economic conditions. Because many of these suppliers reduce the size of their workforce in an industry downturn and increase it in an upturn, they may not be able to meet our requirements or respond quickly enough as an upturn begins and gains momentum. Due to the nature of our product development requirements, these key suppliers must rapidly advance their own technologies and production capabilities in order to support the introduction schedule of our new products. These suppliers may not be able to provide new modules and subassemblies when they are needed to satisfy our manufacturing and delivery schedules. These suppliers may also be adversely impacted by economic conditions, including the current global financial crisis, which could result in a lack of available capital and thereby limit their ability to access such capital if needed to fund their operations. In addition, if we cannot purchase enough of these materials, components or subassemblies, or if these items do not meet our quality standards, there could be delays or reductions in our product shipments, which would harm our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We depend on the introduction of new products for our success, and we are subject to risks associated with rapid technological change. Rapid technological changes in semiconductor manufacturing processes subject us to increased pressure to develop technological advances enabling such processes. We believe that our future success depends in part upon our ability to develop, manufacture, timely introduce and support new light source products with improved capabilities on a timely basis and to continue to enhance our existing light source systems and process capabilities. Due to the risks inherent in transitioning to new products, we must forecast accurate demand for new products while managing the transition from older products. 22 Table of Contents At this time, chipmakers are manufacturing at 65 nm, and a growing number of manufacturers of certain types of memory chips are in production at 55 nm and below. Some advanced logic chips are now in production at 45 nm, while some memory manufacturers have recently commenced production at about the 45 nm node. Additionally, other chipmakers have a significant level of development underway at this node. These efforts, along with expanding use of ArF immersion lithography in production, are driving demand for our most advanced ArF light sources. At the same time, chipmakers also need tools for the less critical layers on wafers, which drive demand for our KrF light source products for DUV photolithography systems as well. After our chipmaker customers have built their capacity to levels appropriate to meet existing demand, their demand for our light source products will depend, in part, on their sales forecasts and their estimates regarding the duration and magnitude of the current industry cycle and whether their projected manufacturing process yields will enable ongoing investments at a suitable level of capacity. To benefit our customers with more productive, lower cost of operation systems and to continue to grow our business, our existing light source products and their process capabilities must be enhanced, and we must develop and manufacture new products to serve other semiconductor applications. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to manage our business growth effectively. Nor can we guarantee that we will be able to accelerate the development of new enhancements to our existing products and create new products. Further, we may not be able to effectively integrate new products and applications into our current operations. Any of these risks could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future technologies such as EUV, nano-imprint lithography, and certain maskless lithography techniques may render our KrF and ArF excimer light source products obsolete. We must manage product transitions, as the introduction of new products could adversely affect our sales of existing products. If new products are not introduced on time, or have reliability or quality problems, our performance may be impacted by reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, delays in acceptance of and payment for new products, and additional service and warranty expenses. We may not be able to develop and introduce new products or enhancements to our existing products and processes in a timely or cost effective manner that satisfies customer needs or achieves market acceptance. Failure to develop and introduce these new products and enhancements could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We are facing and expect to continue facing significant competition from current and future competitors. We believe that other companies are developing systems and products that are competitive to ours and have or are planning to introduce new products to this market, which may affect our ability to sell our new products. Furthermore, new products represent significant investments of our resources and their success, or lack thereof, could have a material effect on our financial results. We face competition from one company and may face competition from additional competitors who enter the market. Our future performance depends, in part, upon our ability to continue to compete successfully worldwide. We currently have one competitor that sells light sources for DUV photolithography applications. This competitor, Gigaphoton, is a joint venture between two large companies, Komatsu and Ushio, and is headquartered in Japan. Over the past couple of years, Gigaphoton has gained market penetration in the DUV light source industry and is continuing to aggressively try to gain additional market penetration. We know that our customers have purchased products from this competitor and that our customers have qualified this competitor's light sources for use with their products. Larger companies with substantially greater resources, such as other manufacturers of industrial light sources for advanced lithography, may attempt to sell competitive products to our customers. Potential competitors may also be attracted to our growing installed base of light sources which 23 Table of Contents represents a steady and significant installed base products revenue stream for us, and they may attempt to supply replacement parts to that installed base. If any existing or future competitors gain market acceptance, we could lose market share and our growth could slow or decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We must effectively manage changes in our business. In order to respond to the business cycles of the semiconductor industry and overall economic conditions, over the past few years we have expanded and contracted the scope of our operations and the number of employees in many of our locations and departments. As the semiconductor equipment industry cycle moves between growth and contraction and the condition of the global economy changes, we will need to: •improve our product reliability through quality control, order fulfillment and customer support capabilities; •closely manage our global operations and cost structure; •improve our processes and other internal management systems; •quickly adapt to changing sales and marketing channels; •effectively manage our inventory levels; and •attract, train, retain and motivate key personnel. If we fail to effectively manage changes in our business, our operating results, financial condition and cash flows will be adversely affected. Any failure to manage our inventory levels, particularly during the current adverse economic conditions, and our inventory controls at our widely dispersed operations could adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations. We need to continually evaluate and monitor the adequacy of our inventory levels to avoid stocking excess or obsolete parts, particularly during downturns in the semiconductor industry and the global economy. Our inventory levels increased significantly in 2008 due to increases in our field inventory to support the growing installed base of our light sources, to provide for faster replacement parts availability, to optimize field inventory to support XLR light source system installations and to support our OnPulse usage agreements. The increase in inventory also included inventory related to our TCZ joint venture which is developing flat panel display technologies and EUV systems that are currently being built in support of planned production demand in 2009. This increase in inventory took place during a year when the semiconductor industry entered a downturn and the global economy a recession. As a result, we are closely monitoring and managing our inventory levels to minimize the risk of excess inventory, particularly related to our replacement parts inventory. We have inventory located at warehouses at our corporate office in the United States and at bonded warehouses at our subsidiary offices located in various countries in Asia and Europe. The success of our business depends to a significant degree on our ability to maintain or increase the sales of our products in the markets in which we do business. If we misjudge the market or demand for our products or the overall condition of the global economy, our revenues may decline significantly, which could result in excess inventory levels. As a result of these excess inventory levels, we may be required to significantly write down the value of our inventory which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents We also need to continually evaluate the adequacy of our existing inventory controls, including the risk of loss of inventory in bonded warehouses. We could also sustain a loss in the event of a catastrophe in any of the locations where we maintain our inventory or if the warehouse company's insurance is inadequate to cover such losses. We will be required to continually analyze the sufficiency of our inventory distribution systems in order to support our operations. We may not adequately anticipate all of the changing demands that will be imposed on these systems. An inability or failure to update our internal inventory distribution systems or procedures as required could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations for all foreign currencies in which we do business and we may be adversely affected by these fluctuations or declining economic conditions in the countries in which we operate. We have international subsidiaries that operate in foreign currencies and sell our product to most of their customers in these foreign currencies. All of our international subsidiary offices purchase the products that they sell to their customers from our corporate office in U.S. Dollars. During the last quarter of fiscal 2008, we mitigated the risk related to such intercompany inventory sales by utilizing bonded warehouses in Korea, Taiwan and Europe. Inventory held in these bonded warehouses remains the property of our corporate office which is located in the United States and is valued in U.S. Dollars until it is sold to our subsidiary offices. Although these subsidiary offices are located in various countries in Asia and Europe, and we are subject to foreign currency exchange risks associated with these countries, we currently only hedge foreign currency exposures at our Japanese subsidiary since it accounts for the single largest portion of our foreign operations. When we sell products to our Japanese subsidiary, the sale is denominated in U.S. Dollars. When our Japanese subsidiary sells our products directly to customers in Japan, the sale is denominated in Japanese Yen. Thus, our results of operations may fluctuate based on the changing value of the Japanese Yen to the U.S. Dollar. We manage the exposure of our Japanese subsidiary to these fluctuations through forward contracts to hedge the subsidiary's purchase commitments. Although we enter into such forward contracts, they may not be adequate to eliminate the impact of our exchange rate exposure in Japan. In addition to the foreign currency exchange risk that we have associated with our Japanese subsidiary, the foreign currency exchange exposure increased significantly in our other international subsidiary offices in 2008, particularly those offices located in Korea and the Netherlands. Since the beginning of 2008 the values of the Korean Won and the Euro have been very volatile against that of the U.S. Dollar. In the third quarter of 2008, both of these currencies declined significantly against the U.S. Dollar, and as a result, we recorded significant foreign currency exchange losses during that period. As a result of the additional foreign currency exposures we experienced in 2008, we have begun expanding our foreign currency hedging program to include balance sheet hedging at our international subsidiary offices. We launched this balance sheet hedging program in February 2009 at one of our international subsidiary offices and plan to implement it at other international subsidiaries during 2009. In addition, we will continue to transition other foreign currency related business practices and processes to be more U.S. Dollar-centric where we deem appropriate. Although we currently enter into forward contracts and have a balance sheet hedging program at some of our international subsidiary offices, these measures may not be adequate to eliminate the impact of our foreign exchange rate exposure. In addition, failure to sufficiently hedge or otherwise manage such foreign currency risks properly could have or continue to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents Failure to effectively maintain our direct field support organization could have a material adverse effect on our business. We believe it is critical for us to provide quick and responsive support directly to our chipmaker customers throughout the world that use our light source products in their photolithography systems, and that it is essential to maintain our own personnel or trained third-party resources to provide the high level of support our customers have come to expect. Accordingly, we have an ongoing effort to develop our direct support system with locations in Europe, Korea, Japan, China, Singapore, Taiwan and the U.S. This requires us to do the following: •recruit and train qualified field service personnel; and •maintain effective and highly trained organizations that can provide support to our customers in various countries. We may not be able to attract and train qualified personnel to maintain our direct support operations successfully. Further, we may incur significant costs in providing this support. Failure to implement our direct support operation effectively could harm our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We are dependent on our limited manufacturing facilities and on our subcontractors to assemble and test our products. Operations at our two manufacturing facilities and at our subcontractors are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including work stoppages, terrorism, fire, earthquake, energy shortages, flooding or other natural disasters. Such disruptions could cause delays in shipments of our products to our customers. We provide no assurance that alternate production capacity would be available if a major disruption were to occur or that, if it were available, it could be obtained on favorable terms, or at all. Such disruption could result in cancellation of orders or loss of customers, which would have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We depend on key personnel, especially management and technical personnel, who may be difficult to attract and retain. We are highly dependent on the services of many key employees in various areas, including: •research and development; •engineering; •sales and marketing; •field support; •manufacturing; and •management. In particular, there are a limited number of experts in excimer light source technology, and we require highly skilled hardware and software engineers. Competition for qualified personnel is intense and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel as needed. We do not have employment agreements with most of our employees. We believe that our future growth and operating results will depend on: •the continued services of our research and development, engineering, sales and marketing, field support, manufacturing, and management personnel; •our ability to attract, train and retain highly-skilled key personnel, particularly following our recent reductions in workforce, and deepening uncertainty regarding the outlook for our business; and •the ability of our personnel and key management to continue to expand, motivate and manage our employee base. 26 Table of Contents If we are unable to hire, train and retain key personnel as required, our operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. Economic, political, regulatory and other events in geographic areas where we have significant sales or operations could interfere with our business. We serve an increasingly global market. A large portion of our total revenues is derived from customers located outside of the U.S. We expect our international sales to continue to account for a very large portion of our total revenues. In order to support our foreign customers, we maintain a manufacturing and field support subsidiary in Korea as well as field support subsidiaries in Japan, the Netherlands, China, Singapore and Taiwan. We may not be able to manage our operations to address and support our global customers effectively. Further, our investments in these types of activities may not make us competitive in the global market or we may not be able to meet the support or manufacturing levels required by our global customers. Additionally, we are subject to the risks inherent in doing business globally, including: •fluctuations in exchange rates and currency controls; •unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; •political and economic conditions and instability, including the recent economic turmoil in many parts of the world; •imposition of trade barriers and restrictions, including changes in tariff and freight rates, foreign customs and duties, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; •difficulty in coordinating our management and operations in different countries; •difficulties in staffing and managing foreign subsidiary and branch operations; •limited intellectual property protection in some countries; •potentially adverse tax consequences in some countries; •the possibility of accounts receivable collection difficulties; •in Asia, the risk of business interruption and damage from earthquakes; •the effect of acts of terrorism and war; •the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws including regulatory structures and unexpected changes in regulatory environments; and •distribution costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation. Many of our chipmaker customers are located in Asia. Economic problems and currency fluctuations affecting these regions in Asia could create a larger risk for us. Even though it has not been difficult for us to comply with U.S. export controls, these export rules could change in the future and make it more difficult or impossible for us to export our products to many countries. We self insure certain risks, including earthquake risk. Any of these vulnerabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Currently, none of our U.S. or international subsidiary office employees are members of a labor union; however if such employees decide to join a union, our cost of doing business could increase, and we could experience contract delays, difficulty in adapting to a changing regulatory and economic environment, cultural conflicts between unionized and non-unionized employees, strikes and work stoppages, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 27 Table of Contents Our ability to compete could be jeopardized if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights. These types of claims could seriously harm our business or require us to incur significant costs. We believe our success and ability to compete depend in part upon protecting our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure and other contractual agreements and technical measures to protect our proprietary rights. We own and have numerous patents pending in the U.S. and various foreign countries covering certain aspects of technology related to light sources and piezo techniques. These patents will expire at various times through 2027. Our pending patent applications and any future applications might not be approved. Our patents might not provide us with a competitive advantage and may be successfully challenged by third parties. In addition, third parties' patents might have an adverse effect on our ability to do business. Due to cost constraints, we do not seek international patent protection for all inventions that are covered by U.S. patents and patent applications. As a result we do not have foreign patent protection for some of our inventions. Additionally, laws of some foreign countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold, including various countries in Asia, may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. Thus, the likelihood of piracy of our technology and products is greater in these countries. Further, third parties might independently develop similar products, duplicate our products, or design around patents that are granted to us. Other companies or persons may have filed or may file in the future patent applications that are similar or identical to ours. We may have to participate in appropriate proceedings in the courts or the patent offices to determine the priority of inventions. These proceedings may determine that these third-party patent applications have priority over our patent applications. Loss of priority in these interference proceedings could result in substantial cost to us and loss of rights. We also rely on the following to protect our confidential information and our other intellectual property: •trade secret protection; •employee nondisclosure agreements; •third-party nondisclosure agreements; and •other intellectual property protection methods. However, we may not be successful in protecting our confidential information or intellectual property, particularly our trade secrets, because third parties may: •independently develop substantially the same proprietary information or techniques; •gain access to our trade secrets from unrelated third parties and/or without obligation of confidentiality; or •disclose our technology following expiration of their confidentiality obligation. The parties to whom we have provided research and development services may dispute the ownership of the intellectual property that we developed while performing these services. In the past, funds from research and development arrangements with third parties have been used to pay for a portion of our own research and development expenses. We received these funds from government-sponsored programs and from customers in connection with our design and development of specific products. Periodically, funds from lithography tool manufacturers and chipmakers are used to fund a small portion of our research and development expenses. In providing these research and development services to these manufacturers, we try to make contractually clear who owns the intellectual property that results from the research and development services we perform. However, disputes over the ownership or rights to use or market this intellectual property may arise between the 28 Table of Contents funding organizations and us. Any dispute over ownership of the intellectual property we develop could restrict our ability to market our products and have a material adverse effect on our business. If our goodwill, definite lived intangible assets or our property, plant and equipment become impaired we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our amortizable intangible assets, which are primarily patents, and our property, plant and equipment, for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is also tested for impairment at least annually and more often if certain triggering events or circumstances occur. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill, amortizable intangible assets or our property, plant and equipment may not be recoverable include a decline in our stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates for our company, slower growth rates in our industry and adverse global economic conditions. We may be required to record a significant charge in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill, amortizable intangible assets or our property plant and equipment is determined which would negatively impact our results of operations. We may be subject to patent litigation to enforce patents issued to us or defend ourselves against claimed infringement by our competitor or any other third party. Third parties have notified us in the past, and may notify us in the future, that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. Also, we have notified third parties in the past, and may notify them in the future, that they may be infringing our intellectual property rights. We have notified our competitor and others of our U.S. patent portfolio. Specifically, we have notified Komatsu that it may be infringing some of our U.S. patents. We have discussed with Komatsu our claims against each other. Komatsu challenged one of our U.S. patents in the United States Patent and Trademark Office ("USPTO"), but our patent was subsequently re-issued by the USPTO. Also, Komatsu transferred its lithography light source business to our competitor, Gigaphoton. We also have had discussions with a former competitor, Lambda-Physik (a subsidiary of Coherent, Inc.), regarding allegations by each party against the other for possible patent infringement. Any of these discussions with our competitor or former competitor may not be successful and litigation could result. In the future, patent litigation may result due to a claim of infringement by our competitor or any other third party or may be necessary to enforce patents issued to us. Any such litigation could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our effort, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Furthermore, our customers and the end-users of our products might assert other claims for indemnification that arise from infringement claims against them. If these assertions are successful, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially affected. Instead of litigation, or as a result thereof, we may seek a license from third parties to use their intellectual property. However, we may not be able to obtain a license. Alternatively, we may design around the third party's intellectual property rights or we may challenge these claims in legal proceedings. Any adverse determination in a legal proceeding could result in one or more of the following, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results: •loss of our proprietary rights; •exposure to significant liabilities by other third parties; •requirement that we get a license from third parties on terms that are not favorable to us or not available at all; or •injunction prohibits us from manufacturing or selling our products. 29 Table of Contents Any of these actions could be costly and would divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel, which would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our investments in marketable securities are substantial and are subject to market, interest and credit risk that may reduce their value. We maintain a substantial portfolio of investments in marketable securities, particularly in corporate and government fixed income securities and commercial paper. Our earnings may be adversely affected by changes in the value of this portfolio. In particular, the value of our investments may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates, downgrades in the corporate bonds included in the portfolio, the recent turmoil in the credit markets and financial services industry and by other factors which may result in other than temporary declines in the value of our investments. Each of these events may cause us to record charges to reduce the carrying value of our investment portfolio which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our future effective tax rate may be adversely affected by a number of factors including: •changes in available tax credits, particularly the federal research and development tax credit, which was reinstated for 2008 and 2009; •the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; •the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; •changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; •adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; •increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes; •changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, such as the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") Code Section 199 manufacturing deduction which currently provides a tax benefit; and •the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes. Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact net income in future periods. In addition, the IRS and other tax authorities regularly examine our income tax returns. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted if any assessments resulting from the examination of our income tax returns by the IRS or other taxing authorities are not resolved in our favor. Decreased availability of equity awards could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain employees. We have a limited number of equity awards remaining available to be granted to our employees and directors under our 2005 Equity Incentive Plan. If we are unable to obtain authorization from our stockholders to increase the number of shares available for grant under our equity incentive plans when necessary, we may need to reduce future equity awards and consider alternate forms of compensation to incentivize our employees. In addition, the majority of our outstanding options are priced at less than the per share market valuation of our common stock, which reduces the effectiveness of stock options to hire, retain and incentivize our employees. 30 Table of Contents We may acquire a business or enter a new market that will involve numerous risks. We may not be able to address these risks successfully without substantial expense, delay or other operational and financial challenges. The risks involved with acquiring a new company, forming a joint venture, or entering a new market include the following: •diversion of management's attention and resources to integrate the new company or new business opportunity; •failure to retain key personnel; •customer dissatisfaction or performance problems with the acquired company or new product in a new market; •costs associated with acquisitions and joint ventures and the integration of acquired operations; •costs associated with developing, marketing, introducing and supporting a new product in a new market; •failure to commercialize purchased technologies; •ability of the acquired companies, joint ventures or new markets to meet their financial projections; •assumption of unknown liabilities or other unanticipated events or circumstances; and •compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations, NASDAQ Stock Market rules and new accounting pronouncements as they relate to the new company or joint venture. Mergers, acquisitions and joint ventures, as well as entry into new markets, are inherently subject to multiple significant risks, and the inability to effectively manage these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business. In July 2005, we formed our TCZ joint venture with Zeiss to produce tools for the manufacture of flat panel displays. This is a new market for both us and Zeiss and may involve numerous risks. Any of these risks could materially harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Further, any business that we acquire, any joint venture that we form or new market we may enter may not achieve anticipated revenues or operating results. We may experience difficulties with our enterprise resource planning ("ERP") system or other critical information systems that we use for the daily operations of our business. System failure or malfunction or loss of data contained in these information systems may result in disruption of our operations and result in our inability to process transactions, and this could adversely affect our financial results. System failure or malfunction or loss of data which is housed in our critical information systems could disrupt our ability to timely and accurately process transactions and produce key financial reports, including information on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Any disruptions or difficulties that may occur in connection with our ERP system or other critical systems could also adversely affect our ability to complete important business processes such as the evaluation of our internal controls and attestation activities pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we encounter unforeseen problems with regard to our ERP system or other critical information systems, our business could be adversely affected. Compliance with changing regulations and standards for accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including new SEC regulations, new NASDAQ Stock Market rules, new accounting pronouncements and the expected future requirement to transition to international financial reporting standards are creating uncertainty and additional complexities for companies such as ours. In particular, the 31 Table of Contents Section 404 internal control evaluation requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 have added complexity and costs to our business and require a significant investment of our time and resources to complete each year. We take these requirements seriously and expect to continue to make every effort to ensure that we receive clean attestations on our internal controls each year from our outside auditors, but there is no guarantee that our efforts to do so will be successful. To maintain high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with all other evolving standards. These investments may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from strategic revenue generating and cost management activities. We are dependent on air transport to conduct our business and disruption of domestic and international air transport systems could adversely affect our business. We depend on regular and reliable air transportation on a worldwide basis for many of our routine business functions. If civil aviation in the U.S. or abroad is disrupted by terrorist activities or security responses to the threat of terrorism, regulatory compliance issues or for any other reason, our business could be adversely affected in the following ways: •supplies of raw materials and components for the manufacture of our products or our customers' products may be disrupted; •we may not be able to deliver our products to our customers in a timely manner; •we may not be able to provide timely service of or support for installed light sources for chipmakers; and •our sales and marketing efforts may be disrupted. We are subject to many standards and regulations of foreign governments and, even though we intend to comply, we may not always be in compliance with these rules, or we may be unable to design or redesign our products to comply with these rules. Many foreign government standards and regulations apply to our products and these standards and regulations are frequently being amended. Although we intend to meet all foreign standards and regulations, our products may not comply with all of them. Further, it might not be cost effective for us to redesign our products to comply with these foreign government standards and regulations. Our inability to design products to fully comply with foreign standards therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our chipmaker customers' prolonged use of our products in high volume production may not produce the results they desire and, as a result, our reputation and that of our customers who supply photolithography tools to the chipmakers could be damaged in the semiconductor industry. Over time, our light source products may not meet our chipmaker customers' production specifications or operating cost requirements after the light source has been used for a long period in high volume production. If any chipmaker cannot successfully achieve or sustain their volume production using our light sources, our reputation could be damaged with them and with lithography tool manufacturers. This would have a negative impact on our business. Our operations are subject to environmental and other government regulations that may expose us to liabilities for noncompliance. We are subject to federal, state and local regulations, such as regulations related to the environment, land use, public utility utilization and the fire code, in connection with the storage, handling, discharge and disposal of substances that we use in our manufacturing process and in our facilities. We believe that our activities comply with current government regulations that are applicable to our operations and current facilities. We may be required to purchase additional capital equipment 32 Table of Contents or other requirements for our processes to comply with these government regulations in the future if they change. Further, these government regulations may restrict us from expanding our operations. Adopting measures to comply with changes in the government regulations, our failure to comply with environmental and land use regulations, or restrictions on our ability to discharge hazardous substances, could subject us to future liability or cause our manufacturing operations to be reduced or stopped. Our products are subject to potential product liability claims if personal injury or death results from their use. We are exposed to significant risks for product liability claims if personal injury or death results from the use of our products. We may experience material product liability losses in the future. We maintain insurance against product liability claims; however, our insurance coverage may not continue to be available on terms that are acceptable to us. This insurance coverage also may not adequately cover liabilities that we incur. Further, if our products are defective, we may be required to recall or redesign these products. A successful claim against us that exceeds our insurance coverage level, or any claim or product recall that results in adverse publicity against us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Trademark infringement claims against our registered and unregistered trademarks would be expensive and we may have to stop using such trademarks and pay damages. We have registered a number of trademarks including "CYMER" and "INSIST ON CYMER" in the U.S. and in some other countries. We are also trying to register additional trademarks in the U.S. and in other countries. We use these trademarks and many other marks in our business and advertising materials, which are distributed throughout the world. We may be subject to trademark infringement actions for using these marks and other marks on a worldwide basis which would be costly to defend. If an adverse trademark infringement action were successful, we would have to stop using one or more of the marks and possibly pay damages and this would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The price of our common stock has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate widely. The price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and will continue to be subject to significant fluctuations in the future in response to a variety of factors, including the risk factors contained in this report. Various factors may significantly affect the market price and volatility of our common stock, including: •the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry; •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results, including our net income, product gross margins and free cash flow; •conditions and trends in the light source device and other technology industries; •announcements of innovations in technology; •new products offered by us or our competitor; •developments of patents or proprietary rights; •changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; •global political, economic, and market conditions, including a possible prolonged recession or further economic deterioration; and •failure to properly manage any single or combination of risk factors listed in this section. 33 Table of Contents Stock markets in the United States experienced extraordinary volatility in 2008. Severe price fluctuations in a company's stock have frequently been followed by securities litigation. If such litigation were initiated against us, it may result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, and therefore it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 