ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. You should also refer to the other information in this report, including our financial statements and the related notes incorporated by reference. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. In that event the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Risks Relating to Our Business Our ability to continue as a going concern requires that we raise additional funds in the first half of 2010, without which we will need to cease our business operations and begin bankruptcy or liquidation proceedings. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon our ability to obtain financing in the first half of 2010, our ability to control our operating expenses and our ability to achieve a level of revenues adequate to support our capital and operating requirements. In particular, we are exploring various financing alternatives to address our short term liquidity needs. No assurance can be given that we will be successful in obtaining financing on acceptable terms or at all. We anticipate that if we are able to secure financing, that such financing will result in significant dilution of the ownership interests of our current stockholders and may provide certain rights to the new investors senior to the rights of our current stockholders, including but not limited to voting rights and rights to proceeds in the event of a sale or liquidation of the Company. The current FDA clinical hold of our clinical trials for Proellex® will make it more difficult for us to obtain additional financing. In addition, the recently filed class action lawsuits will make our ability to raise funds even more difficult. As described above, we expect to continue to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future, and we may never achieve or sustain profitability. In the event that we are unable to obtain adequate financing in the first half of 2010, we will need to cease our business operations and begin bankruptcy or liquidation proceedings. We may need to seek protection under the provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, and in that event, it is unlikely that stockholders would receive any value for their shares. We have not generated any significant revenues to date, and we have incurred losses in each year since our inception. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $1.9 million in cash and cash equivalents and our accounts payable and accrued expenses were approximately $2.4 million. The amount of cash on hand is not sufficient to fund future clinical trials of Androxal®, complete all necessary activities relating to the lifting of the hold associated with Proellex®, pay our accounts payable and accrued expenses as well as our normal corporate overhead and expenses. We cannot assure you that any actions that we take would raise or generate sufficient capital to fully address the uncertainties of our financial position. As a result, we may be unable to realize value from our assets and discharge our liabilities in the normal course of business and we may need to seek protection under the provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. In that event, we may seek to reorganize our business, or we or a trustee appointed by the court may be required to liquidate our assets. In either of these events, whether the stockholders receive any value for their shares is highly uncertain. If we needed to liquidate our assets, we would likely realize significantly less from them than the values at which they are carried on our financial statements. The funds resulting from the liquidation of our assets would be used first to pay off the debt owed to any secured and unsecured creditors before any funds would be available to pay our stockholders, and any shortfall in the proceeds would directly reduce the amounts available for distribution, if any, to our creditors and to our stockholders. In the event we were required to liquidate under the federal bankruptcy laws, it is highly unlikely that stockholders would receive any value for their shares. Although we recently amended our exclusive license agreement with the National Institutes of Health, failure to meet our agreed upon milestones could result in a loss of our rights to Proellex®. On October 28, 2009, the Company amended its exclusive license with the NIH dated April 16, 1999. This seventh amendment extends the time period by which the Company is required to obtain certain financing and/or licensing consideration. In addition, the seventh amendment allows the Company time to attempt to lift the clinical hold on Proellex® for purposes of proceeding with a lower dose program. If the clinical hold is lifted, the Company must reach certain developmental milestones for such lower dose program, such as commencing Phase II and III studies and obtaining U. S. FDA approval for treatment of uterine fibroids, each by a specified date. In the event the FDA does not approve Proellex® for further clinical trials, at a lower dosage, by a certain date, the Company is required to identify a second generation compound from those covered by the original Exclusive License Agreement, and the Company must reach certain developmental milestones for such second generation compound, such as completing Phases I, II and III studies of such second generation compound, each by a specified date. Even though such amendment allows the Company additional time to reach such benchmarks, there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in obtaining such financing, that the FDA will agree to allow the Company to resume clinical trials at a lower dosage or that the Company will be successful in identifying a second generation drug. In addition, the license may be terminated by the NIH immediately upon notice to the Company following a filing of a petition in bankruptcy or a letter from the Company to the NIH stating that it is insolvent. In the event that any of the conditions contained in the license agreement for termination by the NIH are triggered, the Company's license agreement may be terminated and the Company would lose its exclusive rights to Proellex®. Any such termination of the license agreement could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position and results of operations, and in such event, the value of the Company's common stock may be materially adversely affected. -9- We believe we have identified a dose-related increase in liver enzymes in Proellex® clinical trial patients, leading to the suspension of Proellex® studies and the FDA's notice of clinical hold on all Proellex® clinical trials. In our clinical trials program for Proellex®, we believe we have identified a dose-related increase in liver enzymes in a limited number of patients that resulted in our decision to suspend all clinical trials relating to Proellex®. In August 2009, the FDA placed all Proellex® clinical studies on hold. There can be no assurance whether and when the FDA will remove the clinical hold; whether Proellex® can be further developed, financed or commercialized in a timely manner without significant additional studies or patient data or significant expense; and whether any future development will be sufficient to support product approval. If we are unable to resolve the FDA's concerns, we will not be able to proceed further to obtain regulatory approval for Proellex®. We have no clear clinical path for Androxal® at this time. We are developing Androxal® for men of reproductive age with low testosterone levels who want to maintain their fertility while being treated for their low testosterone condition. During the second quarter of 2008, we initiated a Phase 2b proof-of-concept clinical trial in which we are monitoring the effects of Androxal® on male fertility and testicular function in patients being treated for low testosterone as compared to Testim®, a popular marketed topical testosterone medication. Given that there is already an acceptable treatment regimen for men with low testosterone, there is significant uncertainty as to whether or not an additional approach such as Androxal® would be approved by the FDA or accepted in the market. At this time it is too early in the clinical development process to estimate when or even if an NDA for Androxal® will be submitted for this indication. We are currently not in compliance with Nasdaq rules for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market and are at risk of being delisted, which may subject us to the SEC’s penny stock rules and decrease the liquidity of our common stock. On January 12, 2010, we received a letter from the Nasdaq Hearings Panel (the “Panel”) stating that our shares would be transferred from the Nasdaq Global Market to the Nasdaq Capital Market, effective at the open of the trading session on Thursday, January 14, 2010. As previously announced, we have not been in compliance with Marketplace Rules 5450(a)(1) and 5450(b)(2)(A) and (C), requiring (i) a minimum $1.00 bid price per share, (ii) a minimum $50 million market value of listed securities and (iii) a minimum market value of publicly held shares of $15 million, respectively, for continued inclusion on the Nasdaq Global Market. The Panel’s determination to transfer our shares to the Nasdaq Capital Market follows our hearing before the Panel on December 3, 2009. If we cannot demonstrate compliance with all the requirements for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market, including the requirement to maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share by June 14, 2010 and maintain either stockholders’ equity of at least $2.5 million or a market value of listed securities of $35 million, by May 5, 2010, our shares will be subject to immediate delisting. If we are delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market, our common stock may be traded over-the-counter on the OTC Bulletin Board or in the “pink sheets.” These alternative markets, however, are generally considered to be less efficient than The Nasdaq Capital Market. Many over-the-counter stocks trade less frequently and in smaller volumes than securities traded on the Nasdaq markets, which would likely have a material adverse effect on the liquidity of our common stock. If our common stock is delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market, there may be a limited market for our stock, trading in our stock may become more difficult and our share price could decrease even further. In addition, if our common stock is delisted, our ability to raise additional capital may be impaired. In addition, our common stock may become subject to penny stock rules. The SEC generally defines “penny stock” as an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. We are not currently subject to the penny stock rules because our common stock qualifies for an exception to the SEC’s penny stock rules for companies that have an equity security that is quoted on The Nasdaq Stock Market. However, if we were delisted, our common stock would become subject to the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell our common stock. If our common stock were considered penny stock, the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and the ability of our stockholders to sell their shares in the secondary market would be limited and, as a result, the market liquidity for our common stock would be adversely affected. We cannot assure that trading in our securities will not be subject to these or other regulations in the future. -10- The Company and certain of its officers and directors were named as a party in several class action lawsuits which could result in a material adverse affect on our business and financial condition. The Company and certain of its officers were named as parties in several shareholder class action lawsuits alleging, among other things, that the Company and such officers violated certain provisions of the Exchange Act by issuing materially false and misleading press releases regarding the results of clinical trials for its drug Proellex®. Our bylaws require us to indemnify our officers in certain proceedings, subject to certain limited exceptions. In addition, each of our directors has an indemnification agreement with the Company providing for certain additional indemnification benefits for such persons in the event of a lawsuit. As a result of the class action lawsuits, we are obligated to pay for certain costs and expenses of our officers and directors and may be liable for substantial damages, costs and expenses if such class action is successful. Such litigation could also divert the attention of our management and our resources in general from day-to-day operations. Further, it is possible that additional claims beyond those that have already been filed will be brought by the current plaintiffs or by others in an effort to seek monetary relief from us. Additionally, such class action lawsuits are covered by the Company's director and officer insurance policy. In the event there are adverse judgments against the Company in such lawsuits, the Company's insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover such judgments and the Company's cash position may not be sufficient to satisfy such judgment. Such adverse judgments could have a material and adverse affect on the Company. If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations, we will have to delay, reduce or eliminate our research and development programs or commercialization efforts. We expect to make additional capital outlays and to increase operating expenditures over the next several years to support our preclinical development and clinical trial activities, particularly with respect to pivotal clinical trials for Androxal® and, if and when the clinical hold on Proellex® is lifted, for Proellex®. Based on our current planned clinical programs, we will need to raise additional capital in the first half of 2010. Thereafter we will need to seek additional funding through public or private financings, including equity or debt financings, and/or through other means, including collaborations and license agreements. We do not know whether additional financing will be available when needed, or that, if available, we will obtain financing on terms favorable to our stockholders or us. If adequate funds are not available to us, we may be required to: · delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our development programs; · relinquish, license or otherwise dispose of rights to technologies, product candidate or products that we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize ourselves at an earlier stage or on terms that are less favorable than might otherwise be available; or · liquidate and dissolve our company. Our future capital requirements will depend upon a number of factors, including: · the size, complexity, results and timing of our clinical programs; · the cost to obtain sufficient supply of the compounds necessary for our product candidates at a reasonable cost; · the time and cost involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; · the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending and enforcing patent claims; and · competing technological and market developments. These factors could result in variations from our currently projected operating and liquidity requirements. The current economic downturn may affect our ability to raise capital, as well as our suppliers and contractors, and could materially affect our ability to continue our business. The current economic downturn has reduced the availability of liquidity and credit to fund or support the continuation and expansion of business operations worldwide. Recent financial market conditions have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, and have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. Continued disruption of the credit markets could adversely affect the credit capacity of our suppliers, contractors and insurance providers and could result in cancellations, suspensions or project delays. If one or more of our suppliers or contractors experiences difficulties that result in a reduction or interruption in supplies or services to us, or they fail to meet any of our manufacturing requirements, our business could be adversely impacted until we are able to secure alternative sources, if any. The equity capital markets have also been impacted, in that there are fewer private equity, venture capital and hedge funds in existence today than in previous years that are willing to invest in early stage biotechnology companies. Investment banks and major pharmaceutical companies are also not pursuing as many new financings and deals as in the past due to the lack of available capital and investors. In addition to these factors, please refer to the risk factor titled, "We rely on third parties to conduct clinical trials for our product candidates, and their failure to timely and properly perform their obligations may result in costs and delays that prevent us from obtaining regulatory approval or successfully commercializing our product candidates" for a discussion of additional adverse events that could arise from the failure of our independent contractors. -11- Because the data from our preclinical studies and early clinical trials for our product candidates are not necessarily predictive of future results, we can provide no assurances that any of them will have favorable results in clinical trials or receive regulatory approval. Before we can obtain regulatory approval for the commercial sale of any product candidate that we develop, we are required to complete preclinical development and extensive clinical trials in humans to demonstrate its safety and efficacy. Positive data from preclinical studies or early clinical trials should not be relied upon as evidence that those studies or trials will produce positive results, or that later or larger-scale clinical trials will succeed. Previous clinical trials for Androxal® have been conducted only in limited numbers of patients that may not fully represent the diversity present in larger populations. In addition, these studies have not been subjected to the exacting design requirements typically required by FDA for pivotal trials. Thus the limited data we have obtained may not predict results from studies in larger numbers of patients drawn from more diverse populations, and may not predict the ability of Androxal® to treat type 2 diabetes. Furthermore, the only data that we obtained to date relating to Androxal® is to treat testosterone deficiency. We will be required to demonstrate through larger-scale clinical trials that these product candidates are safe and effective for use in a diverse population before we can seek regulatory approvals for their commercial sale. There is typically an extremely high rate of attrition from the failure of drug candidates proceeding through clinical trials. We are also required to complete our two-year rat carcinogenicity studies as well as other preclinical studies before we are permitted to file a new drug application, or NDA, for Androxal® and Proellex®. If Androxal®, Proellex®, or any other potential future product candidate fails to demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy in any clinical trial, we would experience potentially significant delays in, or be required to abandon, development of that product candidate. If we delay or abandon our development efforts related to Androxal® or Proellex®, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to continue operations or become profitable. We have a history of operating losses, and we expect to incur increasing net losses and may not achieve or maintain profitability for some time or at all. We have experienced significant operating losses in each fiscal year since our inception. As of December 31, 2009, we had a deficit of approximately $174.5 million. We expect to continue incurring net losses and we may not achieve or maintain profitability for some time if at all. As we increase expenditures for the clinical development of our products, we expect our total operating losses to increase for at least the next few years. Our ability to achieve profitability will depend on, among other things, successfully completing the development of our products, obtaining regulatory approvals, establishing marketing, sales and manufacturing capabilities or collaborative arrangements with others that possess such capabilities, and raising sufficient funds to finance our activities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve profitability or that profitability, if achieved, can be sustained. The uncertainties relating to the foregoing matters raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Raising additional funds by issuing securities or through collaboration and licensing arrangements may cause dilution to existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish proprietary rights. We may raise additional funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or potential regional corporate collaborations and licensing arrangements. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders’ ownership will be diluted. Any debt financing we enter into may involve covenants that restrict our operations. These restrictive covenants may include limitations on borrowing and specific restrictions on the use of our assets, as well as prohibitions on our ability to create liens, pay dividends, redeem capital stock or make investments. In addition, if we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish potentially valuable rights to our potential products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. For example, we might be forced to relinquish all or a portion of our sales and marketing rights with respect to Androxal®, Proellex®, or other potential products or license intellectual property that enables licensees to develop competing products. -12- Our stock price could decline significantly based on the results and timing of clinical trials of, and decisions affecting, our product candidates. Results of clinical trials and preclinical studies of our current and potential product candidates may not be viewed favorably by us or third parties, including the FDA or other regulatory authorities, investors, analysts and potential collaborators. The same may be true of how we design the clinical trials of our product candidates and regulatory decisions affecting those clinical trials. Biopharmaceutical company stock prices have declined significantly when such results and decisions were unfavorable or perceived negatively or when a product candidate did not otherwise meet expectations. The final results from our clinical development programs may be negative, may not meet expectations or may be perceived negatively. The designs of our clinical trials (which may change significantly and be more expensive than currently anticipated depending on our clinical results and regulatory decisions) may also be viewed negatively by third parties. We may not be successful in completing these clinical trials on our projected timetable, if at all. Failure to initiate additional clinical trials or delays in existing clinical trials of Androxal® and failure of the FDA to lift the clinical hold for lower doses of Proellex® or any of our other current or future product candidates, or unfavorable results or decisions or negative perceptions regarding any of such clinical trials, could cause our stock price to decline significantly. Delays in the commencement of preclinical studies and clinical trials testing of our current and potential product candidates could result in increased costs to us and delay our ability to generate revenues. Our product candidates will require continued preclinical studies and extensive clinical trials prior to the submission of a regulatory application for commercial sales. Because of the nature of clinical trials and our lack of sufficient capital, we do not know whether future planned clinical trials will begin on time, if at all. Delays in the commencement of preclinical studies and clinical trials could significantly increase our product development costs and delay any product commercialization. In addition, many of the factors that may cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to denial of regulatory approval of a product candidate. The commencement of clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in: · demonstrating sufficient safety and efficacy in past clinical trials to obtain regulatory approval to commence a further clinical trial; · convincing the FDA that we have selected valid endpoints for use in proposed clinical trials, such as those we recently changed in our Androxal® clinical trials after our meeting with the FDA; · reaching agreements on acceptable terms with prospective contract manufacturers for manufacturing sufficient quantities of a product candidate; and · obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site. In addition, the commencement of clinical trials may be delayed due to insufficient patient enrollment, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, and the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial. Delays in the completion of, or the termination of, clinical testing of our current and potential product candidates could result in increased costs to us, and could delay or prevent us from generating revenues. Once a clinical trial has begun, it may be delayed, suspended or terminated by us or the FDA, such as we are experiencing with Proellex®, or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including: · lack of effectiveness of any product candidate during clinical trials; · side effects experienced by trial participants or other safety issues; · slower than expected rates of patient recruitment and enrollment or lower than expected patient retention rates; · delays or inability to manufacture or obtain sufficient quantities of materials for use in clinical trials; · inadequacy of or changes in our manufacturing process or compound formulation; · delays in obtaining regulatory approvals to commence a trial, or “clinical holds” or delays requiring suspension or termination of a trial by a regulatory agency, such as the FDA, after a trial is commenced; · changes in applicable regulatory policies and regulations; -13- · delays in identifying and reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective clinical trial sites; · uncertainty regarding proper dosing; · unfavorable results from on-going clinical trials and preclinical studies; · failure of our clinical research organizations to comply with all regulatory and contractual requirements or otherwise fail to perform their services in a timely or acceptable manner; · scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions; · failure to construct appropriate clinical trial protocols; · insufficient data to support regulatory approval; · inability or unwillingness of medical investigators to follow our clinical protocols; · difficulty in maintaining contact with subjects during or after treatment, which may result in incomplete data; · ongoing discussions with the FDA or other regulatory authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials; as was the case with our development for the initial indication of Androxal® that we are no longer pursuing; · acceptability to the FDA of data obtained from clinical studies conducted in Europe or other non-United States jurisdictions; and · lack of adequate funding to continue clinical trials. Many of these factors that may lead to a delay, suspension or termination of clinical testing of a current or potential product candidate may also ultimately lead to denial of regulatory approval of a current or potential product candidate. If we experience delays in the completion of, or termination of, clinical testing of any product candidates in the future, our financial results and the commercial prospects for our product candidates will be harmed, and our ability to generate product revenues will be delayed. Even if we successfully complete clinical trials for Androxal® and Proellex®, there are no assurances that we will be able to submit, or obtain FDA approval of, a new drug application. There can be no assurance that, if our clinical trials for Androxal® and Proellex® are successfully completed, we will be able to submit a new drug application, or NDA, to the FDA or that any NDA we submit will be approved by the FDA in a timely manner, if at all. After completing clinical trials for a product candidate in humans, a drug dossier is prepared and submitted to the FDA as an NDA, and includes all preclinical studies and clinical trial data relevant to the safety and effectiveness of the product at the suggested dose and duration of use for the proposed indication, in order to allow the FDA to review such drug dossier and to consider a product candidate for approval for commercialization in the United States. If we are unable to submit an NDA with respect to Androxal® or Proellex®, or if any NDA we submit is not approved by the FDA, we will be unable to commercialize that product. The FDA can and does reject NDAs and requires additional clinical trials, even when drug candidates achieve favorable results in large-scale Phase 3 clinical trials. If we fail to commercialize Androxal® or Proellex®, we will be unable to generate sufficient revenues to continue operations or attain profitability and our reputation in the industry and in the investment community would likely be damaged. The results of preclinical studies and completed clinical trials are not necessarily predictive of future results, and our current drug candidates may not have favorable results in later studies or trials. Preclinical studies and Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials are not primarily designed to test the efficacy of a drug candidate, but rather to test safety, to study pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics, and to understand the drug candidate’s side effects at various doses and schedules. To date, long-term safety and efficacy have not yet been demonstrated in clinical trials for any of our product candidates and in fact, our product candidate Proellex® is currently on clinical hold with the FDA due to safety issues experienced in our Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical trials for endometriosis and uterine fibroids, respectively. Favorable results in our early studies or trials may not be repeated in later studies or trials, including continuing preclinical studies and large-scale clinical trials analyzed with more rigorous statistical methods, and our drug candidates in later-stage trials may fail to show desired safety and efficacy despite having progressed through earlier-stage trials. Unfavorable results from ongoing preclinical studies or clinical trials could result in delays, modifications or abandonment of ongoing or future clinical trials. Clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. Negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause a clinical trial to be delayed, repeated or terminated. In addition, we may report top-line data from time to time, which is based on a preliminary analysis of key efficacy and safety data; such data may be subject to change following a more comprehensive review of the data related to the applicable clinical trial. -14- If commercialized, our product candidates may not be approved for sufficient governmental or third-party reimbursements, which would adversely affect our ability to market our product candidates. In the United States and elsewhere, sales of pharmaceutical products depend in significant part on the availability of reimbursement to the consumer from third-party payers, such as government and private insurance plans. Since we have no commercial products, we have not had to face this issue yet; however, third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. It will be time consuming and expensive for us to go through the process of seeking reimbursement from Medicaid, Medicare and private payers for Proellex® and Androxal®. Our products may not be considered cost effective, and coverage and reimbursement may not be available or sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a competitive and profitable basis. The passage of the Medicare Prescription Drug and Modernization Act of 2003 imposes new requirements for the distribution and pricing of prescription drugs which may negatively affect the marketing of our potential products. If we successfully develop products but those products do not achieve and maintain market acceptance, our business will not be profitable. Even if our product candidates are approved for commercial sale by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, the degree of market acceptance of any approved product by physicians, healthcare professionals and third-party payers and our profitability and growth will depend on a number of factors, including: · relative convenience and ease of administration; · the prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects; · availability, effectiveness and cost of alternative treatments; · pricing and cost effectiveness of our drugs; · effectiveness of our or collaborators’ sales and marketing strategies; and · our ability to obtain sufficient third-party insurance coverage or reimbursement. If Androxal® does not provide a treatment regime that is more beneficial than AndroGel, the current standard of care for the treatment of testosterone deficiency, or otherwise provide patient benefit, it likely will not be accepted favorably by the market. If any products we may develop do not achieve market acceptance, then we will not generate sufficient revenue to achieve or maintain profitability. In addition, even if our products achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to maintain that market acceptance over time if: · new products or technologies are introduced that are more favorably received than our products, are more cost effective or render our products obsolete; · unforeseen complications arise with respect to use of our products; or · sufficient third-party insurance coverage or reimbursement does not remain available. We currently rely on third-party manufacturers and other third parties for production of our product candidates, and our dependence on these manufacturers may impair the development of our product candidates. Currently, we do not have the ability internally to manufacture the product candidates that we need to conduct our clinical trials. We recently terminated our supply agreement with Gedeon Richter for the manufacturing of Proellex® due to the clinical hold imposed by the FDA in August 2009. We have not sought an alternate manufacturer at this time, although we believe that other manufacturers are available. We have a five year supply agreement with Diagnostic Chemical Limited, doing business as BioVectra, for the supply of the bulk active pharmaceutical ingredient used in Androxal®. We have obtained all of our supply of Androxal® to date from BioVectra. We have not faced any material problems with BioVectra in supplying us with our necessary quantities of Androxal® for our clinical trials and anticipate utilizing them for commercial production if Androxal® is approved. The Company believes that should an issue with BioVectra arise an alternative supplier could be identified. -15- For the foreseeable future, we expect to continue to rely on third-party manufacturers and other third parties to produce, package and store sufficient quantities of Androxal®, Proellex®, and any future product candidates for use in our clinical trials. These product candidates are complicated and expensive to manufacture. If our third-party manufacturers fail to deliver our product candidates for clinical use on a timely basis, with sufficient quality, and at commercially reasonable prices, we may be required to delay or suspend clinical trials or otherwise discontinue development and production of our product candidates. While we may be able to identify replacement third-party manufacturers or develop our own manufacturing capabilities for these product candidates, this process would likely cause a delay in the availability of our product candidates and an increase in costs. In addition, third-party manufacturers may have a limited number of facilities in which our product candidates can be produced, and any interruption of the operation of those facilities due to events such as equipment malfunction or failure or damage to the facility by natural disasters could result in the cancellation of shipments, loss of product in the manufacturing process or a shortfall in available product candidates. Our product candidates have only been manufactured in small quantities to date, and we may face delays or complications in manufacturing quantities of our product candidates in sufficient quantities to meet the demands of late stage clinical trials and marketing. We cannot assure that we will be able to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity or scale-up manufacturing volume per batch, whether on our own or in reliance on third-party manufacturers, for any of our product candidates in a timely or economical manner, or at all. To date our product candidates have been manufactured exclusively by third parties in small quantities for preclinical studies and clinical trials. Future clinical trials of our product candidates, if any, will require increased quantities for future commercial sale in the event that such product candidates are approved by the FDA or foreign regulatory bodies. Significant scale-up of manufacturing requires certain additional developmental work, which the FDA must review and approve to assure product comparability. If we or our third-party manufacturers are unable to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for a product candidate, the regulatory approval or commercial launch of that product candidate may be delayed or there may be a shortage in supply of that product candidate. Our product candidates require precise, high-quality manufacturing which may not be available at acceptable costs. Androxal® and Proellex® are novel compounds that have never been produced in large scale. As in the development of any new compound, there are underlying risks associated with their manufacture. These risks include, but are not limited to, cost, process scale-up, process reproducibility, construction of a suitable process plant, timely availability of raw materials, as well as regulatory issues associated with the manufacture of an active pharmaceutical agent. Any of these risks may prevent us from successfully developing Androxal® or Proellex®. Our failure, or the failure of our third-party manufacturers to achieve and maintain these high manufacturing standards, including the incidence of manufacturing errors and reliable product packaging for diverse environmental conditions, could result in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously hurt our business. We may experience delays in the development of our product candidates if the third-party manufacturers of our product candidates cannot meet FDA requirements relating to Good Manufacturing Practices. Our third-party manufacturers are required to produce our product candidates under FDA current Good Manufacturing Practices in order to meet acceptable standards for our clinical trials. If such standards change, the ability of third-party manufacturers to produce our product candidates on the schedule we require for our clinical trials may be affected. In addition, third-party manufacturers may not perform their obligations under their agreements with us or may discontinue their business before the time required by us to gain approval for or commercialize our product candidates. Any difficulties or delays in the manufacturing and supply of our product candidates could increase our costs or cause us to lose revenue or postpone or cancel clinical trials. The FDA also requires that we demonstrate structural and functional comparability between the same drug product produced by different third-party manufacturers. Because we may use multiple sources to manufacture Androxal® and Proellex®, we may need to conduct comparability studies to assess whether manufacturing changes have affected the product safety, identity, purity or potency of any commercial product candidate compared to the product candidate used in clinical trials. If we are unable to demonstrate comparability, the FDA could require us to conduct additional clinical trials, which would be expensive and significantly delay commercialization of our product candidates. -16- We rely on third parties to conduct clinical trials for our product candidates, and their failure to timely and properly perform their obligations may result in costs and delays that prevent us from obtaining regulatory approval or successfully commercializing our product candidates. We rely on independent contractors, including researchers at clinical research organizations, or CROs, and universities, in certain areas that are particularly relevant to our research and product development plans, such as the conduct of clinical trials. The competition for these relationships is intense, and we may not be able to maintain our relationships with them on acceptable terms. Independent contractors generally may terminate their engagements at any time, subject to notice. As a result, we can control their activities only within certain limits, and they will devote only a certain amount of their time conducting research on and trials of our product candidates and assisting in developing them. If they do not successfully carry out their duties under their agreements with us, fail to inform us if these trials fail to comply with clinical trial protocols, or fail to meet expected deadlines, our clinical trials may need to be extended, delayed or terminated. We may not be able to enter into replacement arrangements without undue delays or excessive expenditures. If there are delays in testing or regulatory approvals as a result of the failure to perform by our independent contractors or other outside parties, our drug development costs will increase and we may not be able to attain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our product candidates. In addition, we have no control over the financial health of our independent contractors. The current economic downturn may contribute to the likelihood of the financial failure of one or more of our independent contractors. Several of our independent contractors are in possession of valuable and sensitive information relating to the safety and efficacy of our product candidates, and several others provide services to a significant percentage of the patients enrolled in the respective clinical trials in which such independent contractors participate. Should one or more of these independent contractors become insolvent, or otherwise are not able to continue to provide services to us, as a result of the current economic downturn or otherwise, the clinical trial in which such contractor participates could become significantly delayed and we may be adversely affected as a result of the delays and additional expenses associated with such event. Our liability insurance may neither provide adequate coverage nor may it always be available on favorable terms or at all. Neither Androxal® nor Proellex® has been approved for commercial sale. However, the current and future use of our product candidates by us and potential corporate collaborators in clinical trials, and the sale of any approved products in the future, may expose us to liability claims. These claims might be made directly by consumers or healthcare providers or indirectly by pharmaceutical companies, potential corporate collaborators or others selling such products. We may experience financial losses in the future due to product liability claims. We have obtained limited general commercial liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if we obtain marketing approval for any of our product candidates. However, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses. If a successful product liability claim or series of claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or for liabilities in excess of our insurance limits, our assets may not be sufficient to cover such claims and our business operations could be impaired. We face significant competition with many companies with substantially greater resources than we have and other possible advantages. We are engaged in biopharmaceutical product development, an industry that is characterized by extensive research efforts and rapid technological progress. The biopharmaceutical industry is also highly competitive. Our success will depend on our ability to acquire, develop and commercialize products and our ability to establish and maintain markets for any products for which we receive marketing approval. Potential competitors in North America, Europe and elsewhere include major pharmaceutical companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions and government agencies. Many of our competitors have substantially greater research and development and regulatory capabilities and experience, and substantially greater management, manufacturing, distribution, marketing and financial resources, than we do. Accordingly, our competitors may: · develop or license products or other novel technologies that are more effective, safer or less costly than the product candidates that we are developing; · obtain regulatory approval for products before we do; or · commit more resources than we can to developing, marketing and selling competing products. Our main competitors for the treatment of testosterone deficiency are the testosterone replacement therapies currently being marketed. The current standard of care is AndroGel, a topical gel for the replacement of testosterone developed by Solvay Pharmaceuticals. Solvay is a much larger company than we are, with greater resources and marketing ability. Androxal® would also compete with other forms of testosterone replacement therapies such as oral treatments, patches, injectables and a tablet applied to the upper gum. There is another topical gel currently marketed by Auxilium Pharmaceuticals called Testim®, and a transdermal patch marketed by Watson Pharmaceuticals called AndroDerm. There can be no assurance that our product candidates will be more successful than competitive products. In addition, other potential competitors may be developing testosterone therapies similar to ours. -17- The main therapeutic products competitive with Proellex® for the treatment of uterine fibroids and endometriosis are GnRH agonists, including Lupron and the use of approved progestin-based contraceptives for the treatment of endometriosis. In addition, surgical treatment of both uterine fibroids and endometriosis would compete with Proellex®, if approved, by removing uterine fibroids and by removing misplaced tissue in women with endometriosis. Furthermore, Neurocrine Biosciences Inc. is developing a GnRH antagonist for the treatment of endometriosis. We are thinly staffed and highly dependent on a limited number of management persons and key personnel, and if we lose these members of our team or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified personnel, our future growth and ability to compete would suffer. The competition for qualified personnel in the biopharmaceutical field is intense, and our future success depends upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled scientific, technical and managerial employees. We have only 5 full-time employees at the present time, including Joseph S. Podolski. We are highly dependent on our professional staff for the management of our company and the development of our technologies. Mr. Podolski has an employment agreement with us. There can be no assurance that any of these employees will remain with us through development of our current product candidates. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our directors, officers or employees. The loss of the services of any of our employees could delay or curtail our research and product development efforts. Our plan to use collaborations to leverage our capabilities may not be successful. As part of our business strategy, we intend to enter into collaboration arrangements with strategic partners to develop and commercialize our product candidates. For our collaboration efforts to be successful, we must identify partners whose competencies complement ours. We must also successfully enter into collaboration agreements with them on terms attractive to us and integrate and coordinate their resources and capabilities with our own. We may be unsuccessful in entering into collaboration agreements with acceptable partners or negotiating favorable terms in these agreements. In addition, we may face a disadvantage in seeking to enter into or negotiating collaborations with potential partners because other potential collaborators may have greater management and financial resources than we do. Also, we may be unsuccessful in integrating the resources or capabilities of these collaborators. In addition, our collaborators may prove difficult to work with or less skilled than we originally expected. If we are unsuccessful in our collaborative efforts, our ability to develop and market product candidates could be severely limited. Our rights agreement and certain provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in management or a takeover attempt that you may consider to be in your best interest. We have adopted certain anti-takeover provisions, including a rights agreement. The rights agreement will cause substantial dilution to any person who attempts to acquire us in a manner or on terms not approved by our board of directors. The rights agreement and certain provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and under Delaware law could delay or prevent the removal of directors and other management and could make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us that you may consider to be in your best interest. For example, these provisions: · allow our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; · limit who can call a special meeting of stockholders; and · establish advance notice requirements for nomination for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters to be acted upon at stockholder meetings. Risks Relating to Our Intellectual Property We licensed our rights to Proellex® from NIH and our inability to fulfill our commitments and obligations under such license may result in forfeiture of our rights. Our rights to Proellex® are licensed exclusively to us from NIH under a license agreement. This license agreement contains numerous detailed performance obligations, with time sensitive dates for compliance, relating to clinical development and commercialization activities required by us or our designated third-party providers, as well as additional financial milestones and royalties. Failure to achieve the benchmarks specified in the commercial development plan attached to the license agreement or meet payment obligations could result in termination of the license agreement and the loss of our rights to develop and commercialize Proellex®. We periodically update the commercial development plan as such plans evolve. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet any or all of the performance objectives in the future on a timely basis or at all, or that, if we fail to meet any of such objectives, NIH will agree to revised objectives. NIH has the ability to terminate the agreement for an uncured material breach of the agreement, if we made a false statement or willful omission in our license application, if we do not keep Proellex® reasonably available to the public after commercial launch, if we cannot reasonably satisfy unmet health and safety needs, or if we cannot reasonably justify a failure to comply with the domestic production requirement unless such requirement has been waived. -18- There is a third party individual patent holder that claims priority over our patent application for Androxal®. A third party individual holds two issued patents related to the use of an anti-estrogen such as clomiphene citrate and others for use in the treatment of androgen deficiency and disorders related thereto. In our prior filings with the SEC, we have described our request to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or PTO, for re-examination of one of these patents based on prior art. The third party amended the claims in the re-examination proceedings, which led the PTO to determine that the amended claims are patentable in view of those publications under consideration and a re-examination certificate was issued. However, we believe that the amended claims are invalid based on additional prior art publications, and our request for re-examination by the PTO in light of a number of these additional publications and other publications cited by the PTO, has been granted. All of the claims have been finally rejected in the re-examination and the patent holder has appealed the rejections to the PTO Board of Patent Appeals and Interferences (“the Board”). A decision has been rendered by the Board affirming the rejection of all of the claims. The patent holder has filed a request for rehearing. If the Board maintains the rejections on rehearing or the request for rehearing is denied, the patent holder will have the opportunity to appeal the rejections to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. We also believe that the second of these two patents is invalid in view of published prior art not considered by the PTO. Nevertheless, there is no assurance that either patent will ultimately be found invalid over the prior art. If such patents are not invalidated by the PTO we may be required to obtain a license from the holder of such patents in order to develop Androxal® further or attempts may be made to undertake further legal action to invalidate such patents. If such licenses were not available on acceptable terms, or at all, we may not be able to successfully commercialize or out-license Androxal®. We cannot assure that our manufacture, use or sale of our product candidates will not infringe on the patent rights of others. There can be no assurance that the manufacture, use or sale of any of our product candidates will not infringe the patent rights of others. We may be unable to avoid infringement of the patent rights of others and may be required to seek a license, defend an infringement action or challenge the validity of the patents in court. There can be no assurance that a license to the allegedly infringed patents will be available to us on terms and conditions acceptable to us, if at all, or that we will prevail in any patent litigation. Patent litigation is extremely costly and time-consuming, and there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient resources to defend any possible litigation related to such infringement. If we do not obtain a license on acceptable terms under such patents, or are found liable for infringement, or are not able to have such patents declared invalid, we may be liable for significant money damages, may encounter significant delays in bringing our product candidates to market, or may be precluded from participating in the manufacture, use or sale of any such product candidates, any of which would materially and adversely affect our business. A dispute regarding the infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of others could be costly and result in delays in our research and development activities. Our commercial success also depends upon our ability to develop and manufacture our product candidates and market and sell drugs, if any, and conduct our research and development activities without infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. We may be exposed to future litigation by others based on claims that our product candidates, technologies or activities infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Numerous United States and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications owned by others also exist in the therapeutic areas in, and for the therapeutic targets for, which we are developing drugs. These could materially affect our ability to develop our product candidates or sell drugs, and our activities, or those of our licensor or future collaborators, could be determined to infringe these patents. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that our drug candidates or technologies may infringe. There also may be existing patents, of which we are not aware, that our product candidates or technologies may infringe. Further, there may be issued patents and pending patent applications in fields relevant to our business, of which we are or may become aware, that we believe we do not infringe or that we believe are invalid or relate to immaterial portions of our overall drug discovery and development efforts. We cannot assure you that others holding any of these patents or patent applications will not assert infringement claims against us for damages or seeking to enjoin our activities. We also cannot assure you that, in the event of litigation, we will be able to successfully assert any belief we may have as to non-infringement, invalidity or immateriality, or that any infringement claims will be resolved in our favor. In addition, others may infringe or misappropriate our proprietary rights, and we may have to institute costly legal action to protect our intellectual property rights. We may not be able to afford the costs of enforcing or defending our intellectual property rights against others. There could also be significant litigation and other administrative proceedings in our industry that affect us regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Any legal action or administrative action against us, or our collaborators, claiming damages or seeking to enjoin commercial activities relating to our drug discovery and development programs could: -19- · require us, or potential collaborators, to obtain a license to continue to use, manufacture or market the affected drugs, methods or processes, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; · prevent us from importing, making, using, selling or offering to sell the subject matter claimed in patents held by others and subject to potential liability for damages; or · consume a substantial portion of our managerial, scientific and financial resources; or be costly, regardless of the outcome. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of pre-trial documents and witness discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. We face substantial uncertainty in our ability to protect our patents and proprietary technology. Our ability to commercialize our products will depend, in part, on our or our licensor’s ability to obtain patents, to enforce those patents and preserve trade secrets, and to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. The patent positions of biopharmaceutical companies are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. There can be no assurance that: · Patent applications for and relating to our products candidates, Androxal® and Proellex®, will result in issued patents; · Patent protection will be secured for any particular technology; · Any patents that have been or may be issued to us, such as our pending patent applications relating to Proellex® or Androxal®, or any patents that have been or may be issued to our licensor, such as the patent(s) and application(s) underlying our Proellex® compound, when issued, will be valid and enforceable; · any patents will provide meaningful protection to us; · others will not be able to design around the patents; or · our patents will provide a competitive advantage or have commercial application. The failure to obtain and maintain adequate patent protection would have a material adverse effect on us and may adversely affect our ability to enter into, or affect the terms of, any arrangement for the marketing of any product. We cannot assure that our patents will not be challenged by others. There can be no assurance that patents owned by or licensed to us will not be challenged by others. We could incur substantial costs in proceedings, including interference proceedings before the PTO and comparable proceedings before similar agencies in other countries in connection with any claims that may arise in the future. These proceedings could result in adverse decisions about the patentability of our or our licensor’s inventions and products, as well as about the enforceability, validity or scope of protection afforded by the patents. Any adverse decisions about the patentability of our product candidates could cause us to either lose rights to develop and commercialize our product candidates or to license such rights at substantial cost to us. In addition, even if we were successful in such proceedings, the cost and delay of such proceedings would most likely have a material adverse effect on our business. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information, may not adequately protect our intellectual property, and will not prevent third parties from independently discovering technology similar to or in competition with our intellectual property. We rely on trade secrets and other unpatented proprietary information in our product development activities. To the extent we rely on trade secrets and unpatented know-how to maintain our competitive technological position, there can be no assurance that others may not independently develop the same or similar technologies. We seek to protect trade secrets and proprietary knowledge, in part, through confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, advisors, collaborators and contractors. Nevertheless, these agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of our confidential information and may not provide us with an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of such information. If our employees, scientific consultants, advisors, collaborators or contractors develop inventions or processes independently that may be applicable to our technologies, product candidates or products, disputes may arise about ownership of proprietary rights to those inventions and processes. Such inventions and processes will not necessarily become our property, but may remain the property of those persons or their employers. Protracted and costly litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights. If we fail to obtain or maintain trade secret protection for any reason, the competition we face could increase, reducing our potential revenues and adversely affecting our ability to attain or maintain profitability. -20- We cannot protect our intellectual property rights throughout the world. Filing, prosecuting, and defending patents on all of our drug discovery technologies and all of our potential drug candidates throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive. Competitors may use our technologies to develop their own drugs in jurisdictions where we have not obtained patent protection. These drugs may compete with our drugs, if any, and may not be covered by any of our patent claims or other intellectual property rights. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. Many countries, including certain countries in Europe, have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner may be compelled to grant licenses to third parties (for example, the patent owner has failed to “work” the invention in that country or the third party has patented improvements). In addition, many countries limit the enforceability of patents against government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, the patent owner may have limited remedies, which could materially diminish the value of the patent. Compulsory licensing of life-saving drugs is also becoming increasingly popular in developing countries either through direct legislation or international initiatives. Such compulsory licenses could be extended to include some of our drug candidates, which could limit our potential revenue opportunities. Moreover, the legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the aggressive enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, particularly those relating to biotechnology and/or pharmaceuticals, which makes it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our patents. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial cost and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 