Risk Factors You should carefully consider each of the risks described below, together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making an investment decision with respect to the Company’s securities. If any of the following risks develop into actual events, the Company’s business, financial condition or results from operations could be materially and adversely affected and you could lose all or part of your investment. You should carefully consider the following risk factors together with all of the other information included in this prospectus or incorporated by reference into this prospectus. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, as well as the value of an investment in our common stock. 12 Risks related to our business Deterioration of industry conditions could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business depends to a large extent upon the prospects for the mowing, right-of-way maintenance and agricultural markets in general. Future prospects of the industry depend largely on factors outside of our control. Any of those factors could adversely impact demand for our products which could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. These factors include the following: general economic conditions; the price and availability of raw materials (including fuel and steel), and purchased components; budget constraints and revenue shortfalls for our governmental customers; changes in domestic and foreign governmental policies and laws, including increased levels of governmental regulation; the levels of interest rates; and the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the foreign currencies in countries where we sell our products and in which we don’t have a manufacturing presence. In addition, our business is susceptible to a number of factors that specifically affect agricultural customer spending patterns, including the following: animal disease outbreaks, epidemics and crop pests; weather conditions, such as droughts and floods; changes in farm incomes; cattle and agricultural commodity prices; changes in governmental agricultural policies and subsidies, including the impending end of the five year U.S. Farm Bill of 2002, uncertainty surrounding the new U.S. Farm Bill not yet approved, and changing governmental regulations concerning farm programs imposed by the European Union; the level of worldwide farm output and demand for farm products; and limits on agricultural imports. A downturn in general economic conditions may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The strength and profitability of our business depends on the overall demand for our products. Our revenues are sensitive to general economic conditions and are influenced by consumer confidence in the economy and other factors. A recession or downturn in the general economy, or in a region constituting a significant source of customers for our products, could result in fewer customers purchasing our products, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We depend on governmental sales and a decrease in such sales could adversely affect us. A substantial portion of our revenues is derived from sales to federal, state and local governmental entities. These sales depend primarily on the levels of budgeted and appropriated expenditures for highway, airport, roadside and parks maintenance by various governmental entities and are affected by changes in local and national economic conditions. In addition, from time to time governmental entities have used chemical control of vegetation, which if widely adopted would decrease governmental demand for our products, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our dependence on, and the price and availability of, raw materials (such as steel and fuel) as well as purchased components may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to fluctuations in market prices for raw materials such as steel and energy. In recent years, the prices of various raw materials have increased significantly, and we have been unable to avoid exposure to global price fluctuations and supply limitations, such as have occurred with the cost and availability of steel, fuel and related products. Additionally, although most of the raw materials and purchase components we use are commercially available from a number of sources, we could experience disruptions in the availability of such materials. If we are unable to purchase materials we require or are unable to pass on price increases to our customers or otherwise reduce our cost of goods sold, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. In addition, higher energy costs may negatively affect spending by farmers, including their purchases of our products. 13 We operate in a highly competitive industry, and some of our competitors and potential competitors have greater resources than we do. Our products are sold in highly competitive markets throughout the world. We compete with several large national and international companies that offer a broad range of equipment and replacement parts that compete with our products, as well as numerous small, privately-held manufacturers and suppliers of a limited number of products mainly on a regional basis. Some of our competitors are significantly larger than we are and have substantially greater financial and other resources at their disposal. We believe that we are able to compete successfully in our markets by, to some extent, avoiding direct competition with significantly larger potential competitors. There can be no assurance that our competitors will not substantially increase the resources devoted to the development and marketing of products competitive with our products or that new competitors with greater resources will not enter our markets. Any failure to effectively compete could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We operate and source internationally, which exposes us to the political, economic and other risks of doing business abroad. We have operations in a number of countries outside of the United States. Our international operations are subject to the risks normally associated with conducting business in foreign countries, including the following: limitations on ownership and on repatriation of earnings; import and export restrictions, tariffs and quotas; additional expenses relating to the difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations; labor disputes and uncertain political and economic environments and the impact of foreign business cycles; changes in laws or policies; delays in obtaining or the inability to obtain necessary governmental permits; potentially adverse consequences resulting from the applicability of foreign tax laws; cultural differences; increased expenses due to inflation; weak economic conditions in foreign markets where our subsidiaries distribute their products; and changes in currency exchange rates. Our foreign operations may also be adversely affected by laws and policies of the United States and the other countries in which we operate affecting foreign trade, investment and taxation. In addition, political developments and governmental regulations and policies in the countries in which we operate directly affect the demand for our products. For example, decreases or delays in farm subsidies to our agricultural customers, or the implementation of “green policies” aimed at limiting mowing activities, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our acquisition strategy may not be successful, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We intend to grow internally and through the acquisition of businesses and assets that will complement our current businesses. To date, a material portion of our growth has come through acquisitions. We cannot be certain that we will be able to identify attractive acquisition targets, obtain financing for acquisitions on satisfactory terms or successfully acquire identified targets. Competition for acquisition opportunities may also increase our costs of making acquisitions or prevent us from making certain acquisitions. These and other acquisition-related factors may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. 14 We may be unable to complete or integrate existing or future acquisitions effectively, and businesses we have acquired, or may acquire in the future, may not perform as expected. We may not be successful in integrating acquired businesses into our existing operations and achieving projected synergies. We could face many risks in integrating acquired businesses, including the following: we may incur substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial challenges in integrating acquired businesses, including integrating each company's accounting, information technology, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management; we may be unable to achieve expected cost reductions, to take advantage of cross-selling opportunities, or to eliminate redundant operations, facilities and systems; we may need to implement or improve controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company; acquisitions may divert our management’s attention from the operation of our businesses; we may not be able to retain key personnel of acquired businesses; there may be cultural challenges associated with integrating management and employees from the acquired businesses into our organization; and we may encounter unanticipated events, circumstances or legal liabilities. Our integration of acquired businesses requires significant efforts from the management of each entity, including coordinating existing business plans and research and development efforts. Integrating operations may distract management’s attention from the day-to-day operation of the combined companies. Ultimately, our attempts to integrate the operations, technology and personnel of acquired businesses may not be successful. If we are unable to successfully integrate acquired businesses, our future results may be negatively impacted. In addition, we may be adversely affected if businesses that we have acquired, or that we acquire in the future, do not perform as expected. An acquired business could perform below our expectations for a number of reasons, including legislative or regulatory changes that affect the areas in which the acquired business specializes, the loss of customers and dealers, general economic factors that directly affect the acquired business and the cultural incompatibility of its management team. Any or all of these reasons could adversely affect our business, results of operation and financial condition. Moreover, as a result of our acquisitions in recent years, we have recorded substantial goodwill on our balance sheet, which amounted to approximately $43,946,000 as of December 31, 2007. We test our goodwill for impairment annually, as well as whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the goodwill may be impaired. These events or circumstances generally include operating losses or a significant decline in earnings associated with the acquired business or asset. Our ability to avoid impairment will depend on the future cash flows of these businesses. These cash flows in turn depend in part on how well we have integrated these businesses. If it is determined that an impairment exists, we may be required to incur material charges to our earnings. The agricultural industry and the mowing and growth maintenance industry are seasonal and are affected by the weather, and seasonal fluctuations may cause our results of operations and working capital to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. In general, agricultural and governmental end-users typically purchase new equipment during the first and second calendar quarters. Other products such as street sweepers, excavators, snow blowers, front-end loaders and pothole patchers have different seasonal patterns as do replacement parts in general. In attempting to achieve efficient utilization of manpower and facilities throughout the year, we estimate seasonal demand months in advance and manufacturing capacity is scheduled in anticipation of such demand. We utilize a rolling twelve-month sales forecast provided by our marketing divisions and order backlog in order to develop a production plan for our manufacturing facilities. Additionally, many of our marketing departments attempt to equalize demand for their products throughout the calendar year by offering seasonal sales programs which may provide additional incentives, including discounts and extended payment terms, on equipment that is ordered during off-season periods. Because we spread our production and wholesale shipments throughout the year to take into account the factors described above, sales of agricultural and mowing and growth equipment products in any given period may not reflect the timing of dealer orders and retail demand. 15 Weather conditions and general economic conditions may affect the timing of purchases and actual industry conditions might differ from our forecasts. Consequently, we cannot assure you that sudden or significant declines in industry demand would not adversely affect our working capital or results of operations. If we do not retain key personnel and attract and retain other highly skilled employees, our business will suffer. Our continued success will depend on, among other things, the efforts and skills of our executive officers, including our president and chief executive officer, and our ability to attract and retain additional highly qualified managerial, technical, manufacturing and sales and marketing personnel. We do not maintain “key man” life insurance for any of our employees, and all of our senior management are employed at will. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and hire suitable replacements for any of our key employees. We believe the loss of a key executive officer or other key employee could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject on an ongoing basis to the risk of product liability claims and other litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. Like other manufacturers, we are subject to various claims, including product liability claims, arising in the ordinary course of business, and we are a party to various legal proceedings that constitute routine litigation incidental to our business. We may be exposed to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury, property damage, or both. We cannot assure you that we will not experience any material product liability losses in the future or that we will not incur significant costs to defend such claims. While we currently have product liability insurance, we cannot assure you that our product liability insurance coverage will be adequate for any liabilities that may ultimately be incurred or that it will continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. A successful claim brought against us in excess of available insurance coverage or a requirement to participate in a product recall may have a materially adverse effect on our business. We are subject to environmental, health and safety and employment laws and regulations and related compliance expenditures and liabilities. Like other manufacturers, we are subject to a broad range of federal, state, local and foreign laws and requirements, including those concerning air emissions, discharges into waterways, and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous substances and waste materials, as well as the remediation of contamination associated with releases of hazardous substances at our facilities and offsite disposal locations, workplace safety and equal employment opportunities. These laws and regulations are constantly changing, and it is impossible to predict with accuracy the effect that changes to such laws and regulations may have on us in the future. Like other industrial concerns, our manufacturing operations entail the risk of noncompliance, and there can be no assurance that we will not incur material costs or other liabilities as a result thereof. The Company knows that its Indianola, Iowa property is contaminated with chromium which most likely resulted from chrome plating operations which were discontinued before the Company purchased the property. Chlorinated volatile organic compounds have also been detected in water samples on the property, though the source is unknown at this time. The Company has been voluntarily working with an environmental consultant and the state of Iowa with respect to these issues and believes it completed its remediation program in June 2006. The work was accomplished within the Company’s environmental liability reserve balance. We requested a “no further action” classification from the state. The State of Iowa asked for some additional testing information which the Company has provided. We expect to receive a qualified no further action letter that will require only that we monitor the site in the future. Monitoring will continue until enough data is collected to demonstrate stable or improving conditions, at which time an unconditional no further action letter will be requested. 16 The Company also preliminarily established an environmental reserve in the amount of $1,913,000 related to the acquisition of Gradall’s facility in Ohio. Three specific remediation projects that were identified prior to the acquisition are in process and estimated to cost $400,000. The Company has also identified and established a reserve of $325,000 concerning a potential asbestos issue at the Gradall facility which is being evaluated. The balance of the reserve, $1,188,000, is mainly for potential ground water contamination/remediation that was identified before the acquisition and believed to have been generated by a third party company located near the Gradall facility. Certain other assets of the Company contain asbestos that may have to be abated in the future. The estimated timing and the fair market value of removing or disposing of existing asbestos cannot be reasonably estimated at this time, however, the Company believes the liability associated with the asbestos removal will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position or results of operations. We have incurred and will continue to incur capital and other expenditures to comply with the laws and regulations applicable to our operations. In particular, if we fail to comply with any environmental regulations, then we could be subject to future liabilities, fines or penalties or the suspension of production at our manufacturing facilities. If unexpected obligations at these or other sites or more stringent environmental laws are imposed in the future, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our financial results. Our earnings are affected by fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar as compared to foreign currencies, predominately in European countries, Canada and Australia, as a result of the sale of our products in international markets. While we do hedge against the earnings effects of such fluctuations to an extent (primarily in the U.K. market), we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively manage these risks. Significant long-term fluctuations in relative currency values, such as a devaluation of the Euro against the U.S. dollar, could have an adverse effect on our future results of operations or financial condition. Risks related to investing in our common stock Because the price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly and its trading volume has generally been low, it may be difficult for you to resell our common stock when desired or at attractive prices. The trading price of our common stock has and may continue to fluctuate. The closing prices of our common stock on the NYSE during 2007 has ranged from $28.36 to $16.78 per share, and during 2006 ranged from $26.00 to $19.25 per share. Our stock price may fluctuate in response to the risk factors set forth herein and to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating and financial results, litigation, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, news reports relating to us or trends in our industry or general economic conditions. Furthermore, the trading volume of our common stock has generally been low, which may increase the volatility of the market price for our stock. The stock price volatility and low trading volume may make it difficult for you to resell your shares of our common stock when desired or at attractive prices. You may experience dilution of your ownership interests due to the future issuance of additional shares of our common stock. We may issue shares of our previously authorized and unissued securities which will result in the dilution of the ownership interests of our present stockholders. We are currently authorized to issue 20,000,000 shares of common stock. At December 31, 2007, 9,796,829 shares of our common stock were issued and outstanding, and there were outstanding options to purchase an additional 579,080 shares of our common stock. We also have additional shares available for grant under our 2005 Incentive Stock Option Plan and our 1999 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan. Additional stock option or other compensation plans or amendments to existing plans for employees and directors may be adopted. Issuance of these shares of common stock may substantially dilute the ownership interests of our then existing stockholders. We may also issue additional shares of our common stock in connection with the hiring of personnel, future acquisitions, future private placements of our securities for capital raising purposes, or for other business purposes. This would further dilute the interests of our existing stockholders. Future sales, or the possibility of future sales, of a substantial amount of our common stock may depress the price of the shares of our common stock. 17 Future sales, or the availability for sale in the public market, of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future sales of equity securities. If we or our existing stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market or if there is a perception that these sales may occur, the market price of our common stock could decline. There is no assurance that we will continue declaring dividends or have the available cash to make dividend payments. Although we have paid a cash dividend of $0.06 per share in each quarter since the third quarter of 1999, there can be no assurance that we will continue to declare dividends or that funds will continue to be available for this purpose in the future. The declaration and payment of dividends are restricted by the terms of our amended and restated revolving credit agreement and are subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors, are not cumulative, and will depend upon our profitability, financial condition, capital needs, future prospects, and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. Provisions of our corporate documents may have anti-takeover effects that could prevent a change in control. Provisions of our charter, bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include supermajority voting requirements, prohibiting the stockholder from calling stockholders meetings, removal of directors for cause only and prohibiting shareholder actions by written consent. Our Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws state that any amendment to certain provisions, including those provisions regarding the removal of directors and limitations on action by written consent discussed above, be approved by the holders of at least two-thirds of our common stock. We are also afforded the protections of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which would prevent us from engaging in a business combination with a person who becomes a 15% or greater shareholder for a period of three years from the date such person acquired such status unless certain board or shareholder approvals were obtained. For more information, see “Description of Capital Stock.” Certain stockholders own a significant amount of our common stock, and their interests may conflict with those of our other stockholders. As of December 31, 2007, Capital Southwest Venture Corporation, a subsidiary of Capital Southwest Corporation and Third Avenue Management LLC, beneficially owned approximately 29.0% and 26.0% respectively, of our outstanding common stock. As a result, either of them alone will be able to significantly influence the direction of the Company, the election of our Board of Directors and the outcome of any other matter requiring stockholder approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, and together with others, to prevent or cause a change in control of the Company. In addition, the interests of Third Avenue Management and Capital Southwest may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has no unresolved staff comments to report pursuant to Item 1B. 18 