ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report, including the consolidated financial statements and related notes, before making an investment decision with respect to our common stock. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, or operating results could suffer. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only significant risks we may face. Other events that we do not currently anticipate or that we currently deem immaterial also may affect our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to United Stated Securities and Exchange Commission Investigation United Stated Securities and Exchange Commission Investigation On January 20, 2006, we announced that the United States Securities and Exchange Commission issued a Formal Order of Investigation relating to our failure to file a Form 10-Q since November 20, 2000 and a Form 10-K since March 30, 2000. The investigation also includes our possible failure to file other required filings, issues relating to our internal control and books and records, issues relating to the audit of our financial statements and issues relating to trading in our securities. The Formal Order is directed to us, our officers, directors, and subsidiaries. We are cooperating fully with the SEC and the SEC has made no determination of any wrongdoing at this time. Based on instruction from the SEC, we are filing this Form 10-K for our year ended December 31, 2006. However, this Form 10-K will not result in us being in compliance with all of the filing requirements of a Public Registrant. We may face deregistration proceedings under Section 12(j) of the Exchange Act. Due to our failure to timely file our periodic reports with the SEC, the SEC may commence deregistration proceedings under Section 12(j) of the Exchange Act. If our common stock is deregistered, publicly available information regarding our operations and financial results may be limited and the price of our common stock would likely suffer an immediate and significant decline. Risks Related to the Operations of Entrade and our Subsidiaries We anticipate that we will incur continued losses for the foreseeable future. Although our recent restructuring plan was implemented in October 2006 to achieve profitability more quickly, attaining profitability requires significant improvement in the operating results of Nationwide and our other operating subsidiaries. Particularly given Nationwide’s underperformance from fiscal 2000 through fiscal 2006, and the unsuccessful development of each of our e-commerce market places, profitability in the near-term in all subsidiaries is doubtful. 7 We may have difficulties sustaining and managing our growth. One of the main elements of our strategy is to continue to grow our business, primarily by increasing Nationwide’s earnings and expanding into new geographic markets and into market segments in which we have not had a significant presence in the past. As part of this strategy, we may from time to time acquire additional assets or businesses from third parties. We may not be successful in growing our business or in managing this growth. For us to be successful in growing our business, we need to accomplish a number of objectives, including: • identifying and developing new geographic markets and market segments; • identifying and acquiring, on terms favorable to us, businesses that might be appropriate acquisition targets; • successfully managing expansion; • obtaining necessary financing; • receiving necessary authorizations and approvals from governments for proposed development or expansion; • successfully integrating new facilities and acquired businesses into our existing operations; • achieving acceptance of the auction process in general by potential consignors, bidders and buyers; • establishing and maintaining favorable relationships with consignors, bidders and buyers in new markets and market segments, and maintaining these relationships in our existing markets; • capitalizing on changes in the supply of and demand for industrial assets, in our existing and in new markets; and • designing and implementing business processes that are able to support profitable growth. We may need to hire additional employees, or terminate certain employees to manage any growth that we achieve. In addition, growth may increase the geographic scope of our operations and increase demands on both our operating and financial systems. These factors will increase our operating complexity and the level of responsibility of existing and new management personnel. It may be difficult for us to attract and retain qualified managers and employees, and our existing operating and financial systems and controls may not be adequate to support our growth. We may not be able to improve our systems and controls as a result of increased costs, technological challenges, or lack of qualified employees. Our past results and growth may not be indicative of our future prospects or our ability to expand into new markets, many of which may have different competitive conditions and demographic characteristics than our existing markets. We are in breach of affirmative covenants under certain promissory notes. We have issued secured and unsecured promissory notes aggregating approximately $46.0 million in principal (the “Promissory Notes”). In connection with our issuance of certain promissory notes, we agreed to affirmative covenants obligating us to make all payments under the Promissory Notes and make all securities filings as required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). We have failed to meet our payment obligations under the Promissory Notes and we are not current with respect to our reporting obligations under the Exchange Act and have failed to satisfy certain other technical requirements of the Notes and related security agreements. It is possible that the holders of our outstanding promissory notes may assert such breaches and attempt to exercise their rights and remedies under the Promissory Notes, including declaring all obligations under such notes immediately due and payable. To date none of the note holders has initiated any action to collect payment of the Promissory Notes, but there is no assurance that a holder will not initiate such claims in the future. We will actively seek waivers of all breaches from the holders of Promissory Notes, although we can give no assurance that such waivers can or will be obtained. If we fail to obtain the necessary waivers and the holders of Promissory Notes bring an action against us, we may not be in a position to pay all amounts owing under the Promissory Notes. 8 We may have difficulty obtaining additional capital, and might have to accept terms that would adversely affect our shareholders. In order to continue operating, we may have to raise funds from additional financings, which may result in dilution to our existing shareholders. We may have difficulty obtaining additional funding, and we may have to accept terms that would adversely affect our shareholders and us. For example, the terms of any future financings may impose restrictions on our right to declare dividends or on the manner in which business is conducted. Lending institutions or private investors may impose restrictions on a future decision by us to make capital expenditures, acquisitions, or significant asset sales. Most significantly, we may not be able to locate additional funding sources on any terms, which would have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operating. We will need additional financing in the future, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. We will need additional funds to finance our operations, as well as to enhance our services, fund our expansion, respond to competitive pressures or acquire complementary businesses or technologies. Currently, our business will not generate the cash needed to finance such requirements. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders would be reduced, and these securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to enhance our services, fund our expansion, respond to competitive pressures or take advantage of business opportunities would be significantly limited, and we might need to significantly restrict our operations. We may make acquisitions that require significant resources and could be unsuccessful. In the future, we may acquire other businesses, products and technologies to complement our current business. We may not be able to identify, negotiate, finance, complete or integrate any future acquisition successfully. Acquisitions involve a number of risks, including possible adverse effects on our operating results, diversion of management’s attention, inability to retain key employees of the acquired business and risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities, some or all of which could disrupt our business and reduce the likelihood that we will receive the anticipated benefits of the acquisition in the amount or the time frame that we expect. Should we be unable to successfully integrate a new business, we could be required to either dispose of the operation or restructure the operation. In either event, our business could be disrupted and we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. In addition, future transactions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization of expenses, or write-offs of goodwill, any of which could harm our financial condition and operating results. Future transactions may also require us to obtain additional financing, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Our business would be harmed if there were decreases in the supply of, demand for, or market values of industrial and commercial assets, primarily used industrial equipment and commercial automobiles. Our auction revenues could be reduced if there was significant erosion in the supply of, demand for, or market values of used trucks and commercial automobiles, which would affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have no control over any of the factors that affect the supply of, and demand for, used trucks and commercial automobiles, and the circumstances that cause market values for used trucks and commercial automobiles to fluctuate are beyond our control. In addition, price competition and availability of new trucks and commercial automobiles directly affect the supply of, demand for, and market value of used trucks and commercial automobiles. Current economic conditions may harm our results of operations. In the normal course of business, we are subject to changes in general or regional U.S. economic conditions, including, but not limited to, consumer credit availability, consumer credit delinquency and loss rates, interest rates, gasoline prices, inflation, personal discretionary spending levels and consumer sentiment about the economy in general. Any significant changes in economic conditions could adversely affect consumer demand and/or increase costs. Our revenues and profitability could be reduced as a result of competition in our core markets. The used truck and equipment sectors of the global industrial equipment market, and the auction segment of those markets, are highly fragmented. We compete directly for potential purchasers of industrial equipment with other auction companies. Our indirect competitors include equipment manufacturers, distributors and dealers that sell new or used equipment, and equipment rental companies. When sourcing equipment to sell at our auctions, we compete with other auction companies, equipment dealers and brokers, and equipment owners that have traditionally disposed of equipment in private sales. 9 Our direct competitors are primarily national and regional auction companies. Some of our direct and indirect competitors have significantly greater financial and marketing resources and name recognition than we do. New competitors with greater financial and other resources may enter the industrial equipment auction market in the future. Additionally, existing or future competitors may succeed in entering and establishing successful operations in new geographic markets prior to our entry into those markets. They may also compete against us through internet-based services. If existing or future competitors seek to gain or retain market share by reducing commission rates, we may also be required to reduce commission rates, which may reduce our revenue and harm our operating results and financial condition. Loss of key employees. Our business is largely a service business in which the ability of our employees to develop and maintain relationships with potential sellers and buyers is essential to our success. Moreover, our business is both complex and unique, making it important to retain key specialists and members of management. Accordingly, our business is highly dependent upon our success in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. On October 6, 2006, and concurrently with the consummation of the agreement to sell Nationwide’s existing assets and business operations (the “Sold Operations”) relating to its auction sites located in Delaware, Georgia and Texas (the “Sold Locations”), effective September 1, 2006, Corey Schlossmann tendered, and we accepted, his resignation as the Chief Executive Officer of Nationwide and our director. Government laws and regulations Many of our activities are subject to laws and regulations including, but not limited to, Department of Motor Vehicles, import and export regulations, property ownership laws, data protection and privacy laws, anti-money laundering laws, antitrust laws and value added sales taxes. In addition, we are subject to local auction regulations. Such regulations do not impose a material impediment to our business but do affect the market generally, and a material adverse change in such regulations could affect our business. Additionally, export and import laws and property ownership laws could affect the availability of certain kinds of property for sale at our principal auction locations or could increase the cost of moving property to such locations, or may decrease our ability to sell property for export. Violations of Internal Revenue Code Section 6050I On December 4, 2006, Nationwide received notice from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) of its intention to impose fines and penalties totaling approximately $19.6 million on Nationwide as a result of (a) its failure to file all necessary Form 8300s required by Internal Revenue Code (IRC) Section 6050I during 2003, 2004, 2005 and a portion of 2006, and (b) its failure to provide payee information statements to certain customers as required by IRC Section 6050I. IRC Section 6050I requires a person engaged in a trade or business who receives more than $10,000 in cash from one or more related transactions to disclose the purchaser’s name, address and tax identification number on form 8300, along with the date and nature of the transaction. On May 15, 2007, the IRS and Nationwide entered into a Closing Agreement, pursuant to which Nationwide agreed to pay fines and penalties totaling $81,100 and the IRS agreed not to assert any further penalties and fines with respect all reportable currency transactions for the calendar years ended December 31, 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006. In connection with the settlement of this matter, certain officers of Nationwide executed an acknowledgement of Nationwide’s obligations under IRC Section 6050I and the fines and penalties that may be imposed by the IRS with respect to any future violations of IRC Section 6050I by Nationwide. Given this acknowledgement, we believe that any future violations by Nationwide of IRC Section 6050I will result in the imposition of substantial fines and penalties by the IRS. Unfavorable findings resulting from a government investigation or audit could subject us to a variety of penalties and sanctions, could negatively impact our future operating results and could force us to adjust previously reported operating results. Federal, state, and local governments have the right to audit our performance under our government auction contracts as well as for general regulatory and compliance verification. Any adverse findings from audits conducted by such agencies or reviews of our performance under our contracts could result in a significant adjustment to our previously reported operating results. If this occurs, our past operating margins may be reduced. The results of an audit by any government could result in significant fines and/or reduce the volume and type of merchandise made available to us under our contracts with various government agencies, resulting in lower gross merchandise volume, revenue, and profitability for our company. If such a government audit uncovers improper or illegal 10 activities, we could be subject to the civil and criminal penalties, administrative sanctions, significant fines and reputational harm. If, as the result of an audit of our contracts with the government, we are suspended or debarred from contracting with various government agencies, if our reputation or relationship with government agencies is impaired, or if the government otherwise ceases doing business with us or significantly decreases the amount of business it does with us, our revenue and profitability would substantially decrease. Risks Relating to the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Securities New York Stock Exchange delisting. On July 23, 2001 we were notified by the NYSE that the trading price of our common stock had fallen below the continued listing criteria relating to market capitalization, book value and minimum trading price per share. We submitted a business plan to the NYSE which indicated our ability to meet the listing requirements. The New York Stock Exchange delisted our common stock on October 11, 2001. We were unsuccessful in appealing the delisting, and, our common stock is currently traded on the “pink sheets” market under the symbol “ETAD” Our delisting has reduced the market and liquidity of our common stock and consequently may adversely affect the ability of our stockholders and brokers/dealers to purchase and sell our shares in an orderly manner if at all. Due in part to the decreased trading price of our common stock and the elimination of analyst coverage, the trading price of our common stock may change quickly and, you may not be able to execute trades as quickly as you could when the common stock was listed on the NYSE. The interests of significant shareholders may conflict with the interests of Entrade or other shareholders. We are aware of three directors, officers or holders of more than 5.00% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, that own approximately 6.98%, 5.67%, and 5.62% of the outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2006 respectively. Because of their stock ownership, one or more of these shareholders may be in a position to affect significantly our corporate actions, including, for example, mergers or takeover attempts, in a manner that could conflict with the interests of other public shareholders. Anti-takeover provisions contained in our charter documents could make a third party acquisition of us difficult. We are a Pennsylvania corporation. The anti-takeover provisions of Pennsylvania law may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if such a change in control would be beneficial to shareholders. Our Articles of Incorporation provide that the board of directors may issue preferred stock without shareholder approval. The issuance of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. The board of directors may issue preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that may have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change of control and would adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the voting and other rights of holders of our common stock. The common stock price has been and may continue to be highly volatile. The market price of our common stock may continue to be highly volatile because of general market volatility. Shareholders may not be able to resell their shares of common stock following periods of volatility because of the market’s inability to react to general market volatility. Though we are focusing on auction and retail business opportunities going forward, volatility in Internet-related stocks could still affect the stock price given our continued ownership interests in e-commerce market places. Factors that could cause volatility in our stock price may include, among other things: • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; • announcements of technological innovations by competitors or affiliates; • new sales formats or new products or services; 11 • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • conditions or trends in large manufacturing, auction and automotive industries; • conditions or trends in the Internet industry; • changes in the market valuations of other Internet companies; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures • changes in capital commitments; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • sales of common stock. Many of these factors are beyond our control. These factors may materially adversely affect the market price of the common stock, regardless of operating performance. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may do so in the future, which could cause volatility in our stock price. Our prior operating results have fluctuated due to changes in our business and the e-commerce industry. Similarly, our future operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. You should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance. Factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include the following: • the addition of new consignors or the loss of existing consignors; • the volume, size, timing and completion rate of transactions in our marketplaces; • changes in the supply and demand for and the volume, price, mix and quality of our supply of wholesale, surplus and salvage assets; • introduction of new or enhanced websites, services or product offerings by us or our competitors; • implementation of significant new contracts; • changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; • changes in the conditions and economic prospects of the automotive and auction industries or the economy generally, which could alter current or prospective buyers’ and sellers’ priorities; • technical difficulties, including telecommunication system or Internet failures; • changes in government regulation of the automotive, surplus asset sales, remarketing or auction industry; • event-driven disruptions such as war, terrorism, disease and natural disasters; • seasonal patterns in selling and purchasing activity; and • costs related to acquisitions of technology or equipment. Our operating results may fall below the expectations of market analysts and investors in some future periods. If this occurs, even temporarily, it could cause volatility in our stock price. Shares eligible for future sales by current shareholders may adversely affect our stock price. If existing shareholders sell in the public market substantial amounts of our common stock, including shares issued on the exercise of outstanding options and warrants, then the market price of our common stock could fall. 12 We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock, and you may lose the entire amount of your investment in our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. We intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Therefore, you will not receive any funds without selling your shares. We cannot assure that you will receive a positive return on your investment when you sell your shares or that you will not lose the entire amount of your investment. Risks Related to Our Public Filing Requirements Our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2006 and weaknesses in our internal controls and procedures could adversely affect our financial condition. Our management assessed the internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, the end of our most recent fiscal year, and concluded that material weaknesses existed and that we lacked effective internal control over our financial reporting. We have engaged in, and are continuing to engage in, substantial efforts to improve our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures related to substantially all areas of our financial statements and disclosures. The remediation efforts are continuing and are expected to continue throughout fiscal 2008 and beyond. There remains a risk that we will fail to prevent or detect a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements. In addition, if we are unsuccessful in our remediation efforts, our financial condition, our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations accurately and in a timely manner, and our ability to earn and retain the trust of our shareholders, employees, and customers, could be adversely affected. In addition, if we are unable to improve our internal control over financial reporting, we may risk losing our public company status. In relation to the size of our Company we incur significant costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we incur significant accounting, legal, governance, compliance and other expenses that private companies do not incur. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. These rules and regulations increase our legal, audit and financial compliance costs and makes some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, as a result of being a public company, we are required to maintain additional board committees and formalize our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In addition, we incur additional costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. These rules and regulations also make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it is more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. 13 