Risk Factors Risks Related To Our Business Beginning January 2005, we began operating our business under two business units. During the third quarter of 2005, we further modified this change and are now operating under three business units. It is not yet certain that this change in our operations will be efficient or successful. Beginning January 1, 2005, we began to operate under two business units: Gilat Network Systems and Spacenet. This division was made as part of the Company’s growth strategy aiming to increase sales for solution driven markets as well as the expansion of its services and operations business. During the third quarter of 2005, we divided the Spacenet business unit into two separate units: Spacenet Inc., which provides managed services for enterprise, business and consumers in the U.S. and Spacenet Rural Communications, which offers rural telephony and internet access solutions to remote areas, primarily in Latin America. While the intention is to enable and encourage each business unit to enhance its business strategy, it is possible that the division will cause competition within our company and lead to confusion in the market. We have incurred major losses in recent years and may never achieve net income profitability. We incurred a loss of approximately $100.6 million in 2003 (excluding the gain from restructuring of debt), a loss of approximately $11.5 million in 2004 and a loss of approximately $ 3.7 million in 2005. While we achieved operating profitability of approximately $1 million in the fourth quarter, we cannot assure you that we can operate profitably in the future or achieve a positive net income. If we do not achieve profitability, the viability of our company will be in question and our share price could decline. If commercial wireless communications markets fail to grow as anticipated, our business could be materially harmed. A number of the commercial markets for our products in the wireless communications area, including our broadband products, have only in recent years been developed. Because these markets are relatively new, it is difficult to predict the rate at which these markets will grow, if at all. If the markets for commercial wireless communications products fail to grow, or grow more slowly than anticipated, our business could be materially harmed. Conversely, to the extent that growth in these markets results in capacity limitations in the wireless communications area, it could materially harm our business and impair the value of our shares. Specifically, we derive virtually all of our revenues from sales of VSAT communications networks and provision of services related to these networks. A significant decline in this market or the replacement of VSAT technology by an alternative technology could materially harm our business and impair the value of our stock. - 5 - Trends and factors affecting the telecommunications industry are beyond our control and may result in reduced demand and pricing pressure on our products. There are trends and factors affecting the telecommunications industry which are beyond our control and may affect our operations. These trends and factors include: — adverse changes in the public and private equity and debt markets and our ability, as well as the ability of our customers and suppliers, to obtain financing or to fund working capital and capital expenditures; — adverse changes in the credit ratings of our customers and suppliers; — adverse changes in the market conditions in our industry and the specific markets for our products; — access to, and the actual size and timing of, capital expenditures by our customers; — inventory practices, including the timing of product and service deployment, of our customers; — the amount of network capacity and the network capacity utilization rates of our customers, and the amount of sharing and/or acquisition of new and/or existing network capacity by our customers; — the overall trend toward industry consolidation and rationalization among our customers, competitors, and suppliers; — increased price reductions by our direct competitors and by competing technologies including, for example, the introduction of Ka-band systems by our direct competitors which could significantly drive down market prices; — conditions in the broader market for communications products, including data networking products and computerized information access equipment and services; — governmental regulation or intervention affecting communications or data networking; — monetary stability in the countries where we operate; and — the effects of war and acts of terrorism, such as disruptions in general global economic activity, changes in logistics and security arrangements, and reduced customer demand for our products and services. Economic conditions affecting the telecommunications industry, which affect market conditions in the telecommunications and networking industry, in the United States and globally, affect our business. Reduced capital spending and/or negative economic conditions in the North America, Europe, Asia, Latin America and/or other areas of the world could result in reduced demand for or pricing pressure on our products. Because we compete for large-scale contracts in competitive bidding processes, losing a relatively small number of bids could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results. A significant portion of our sales revenue is derived from our being selected as the supplier of networks based on VSATs, under large-scale contracts that we are awarded from time to time in a competitive bidding process. These large-scale contracts typically involve the installation of between 2,000 and 10,000 VSATs. The number of major bids for these large-scale contracts for VSAT-based networks in any given year is limited and the competition is intense. Losing or defaulting on a relatively small number of bids each year could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results. - 6 - Many of our large-scale contracts are with governments or large enterprises in Latin America and other parts of the world; any instability in the exchange rates or in the political or economic situation or any unexpected unilateral termination could have a significant adverse impact on our business. In recent years, a significant portion of our revenues has been from large-scale contracts, including those in Peru, Colombia, Mexico and Brazil. Agreements with the governments in these countries typically include unilateral early termination clauses and other risks such as the imposition of new government regulations and taxation that could pose additional financial burdens on us. In addition, the foreign exchange risks in these countries are often significant due to possible fluctuations in local currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. Any termination of business in any of the aforementioned countries or any instability in the exchange rates could have a significant adverse impact on our business. In addition, in November 2002, we were awarded two large projects by the Colombian Government, including the installation and operation of approximately 550 telecenters to provide Internet connectivity and telephony services in cities and towns throughout Colombia and a second site of approximately 3,300 public rural satellite telephony network. The total value of the contracts is approximately $65 million. If we do not meet certain minimum equity requirements, this customer may assert that we would be in breach of our contract with them. Any early unilateral termination by the Colombian Government could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results. If we are unable to develop, introduce and market new products, applications and services on a cost effective and timely basis, our business could be adversely affected. The network communications market, to which our services and products are targeted, is characterized by rapid technological changes, new product introductions and evolving industry standards. If we fail to stay abreast of significant technological changes, our existing products and technology could be rendered obsolete. Historically, we have enhanced the applications of our existing products to meet the technological changes and industry standards. For example, in February 2004, we introduced the SkyEdge product family, which offers a comprehensive platform to deliver data, voice and video services over a single platform. Until then, each of these applications demanded a separate hub. In addition, in 2005, in order to meet the demands of utility companies and government customers, we introduced our Armadillo VSAT, a durable, environmentally controlled broadband satellite router system suitable for use in outdoor environments and extreme weather conditions. Our success is dependent upon our ability to continue to develop new products, applications and services and meet developing market needs. To remain competitive in the network communications market, we must continue to be able to anticipate changes in technology and industry standards and to develop and introduce new products, applications and services, as well as enhancements to our existing products, applications and services. If we are unable to respond to technological advances on a cost-effective and timely basis, or if our new products or applications are not accepted by the market, then our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. A decrease in the selling prices of our products and services could materially harm our business. The average selling prices of wireless communications products historically decline over product life cycles. In particular, we expect the average selling prices of our products to decline as a result of competitive pricing pressures and customers who negotiate discounts based on large unit volumes. We also expect space segment prices to decline, in particular in the United States where two of our competitors have announced plans to launch extended Ka-band satellites. We also expect that competition in this industry will continue to increase. To offset these price decreases, we intend to rely primarily on obtaining yield improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacturing process of existing products, on the introduction of new products with advanced features and on offering turn key and other solutions to communications operators that are higher up in the value chain. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain any yield improvements or cost reductions or introduce any new products in the future or reach the higher value chain we strive to sell to. To the extent that we do meet any or all of these goals, it could materially harm our business and impair the value of our shares. - 7 - If we are not able to fill our backlog of orders, our business will be adversely affected. At present, we have a backlog of orders, consisting of network service contracts, generally for three to five years, and of new orders for products and services. As of December 31, 2005 our aggregate backlog for equipment sales and for services under service contracts for our VSAT products was $206 million. If we are unable to satisfy the entire backlog of orders, we will not be able to fully recognize the revenues expected from this backlog and we could lose the contracts from which these backlog of orders arise, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, an inability to supply equipment and services could lead to our default on contracts and the subsequent exercise of performance guarantees by customers and could subject us to penalties and fines. If we lose existing contracts and orders for our products are not renewed, our ability to generate revenues will be harmed. Some of our existing contracts could be terminated due, among others, to any of the following reasons: — dissatisfaction of our customers with our products and/or the services we provide or our inability to timely provide or install additional products or requested new applications; — customers' default on payments due; — our failure to comply with financial covenants in our contracts; — the cancellation of the underlying project by the government-sponsoring body; or — the loss of existing contracts or a decrease in the number of renewals of orders or of new large orders. The termination or non-renewal of our contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. A vast majority of our business generated in 2005 was from recurring customers. If we are not able to gain new customers and retain our present customer base, our revenues will decline significantly. In addition, if we have a higher than anticipated subscriber churn for customers from StarBand and from Spacenet Inc., this could materially adversely affect our financial performance. We are dependent upon a limited number of suppliers for key components to build our VSATs, and may be significantly harmed if we are unable to obtain the hardware necessary for our hubs and VSATs on favorable terms or on atimely basis. Several of the components required to build our VSATs and hubs are manufactured by a limited number of suppliers. In the past, we have not experienced any difficulties with our suppliers with respect to availability of components. However, we cannot assure you of the continuous availability of key components or our ability to forecast our component requirements sufficiently in advance. Our research and development and operations groups are continuously working with our vendors and subcontractors to obtain components for our products on favorable terms in order to reduce the overall price of our products. If we are unable to obtain the necessary volumes of components at desired favorable terms or prices, we may be unable to produce our products at desired favorable terms or prices. As a result, sales of our products may be lower than expected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, in the past year the lead-time for product delivery requested by our customers has shortened significantly. Our supplies are not always able to meet our requested lead times. If we are unable to satisfy these customer’s needs, we could lose their business. - 8 - The terms on which we are able to obtain components for our products are also affected by our relationship with our suppliers. In this regard, we entered into a non-exclusive Supply Chain Management agreement with Arrow/Rapac Ltd., or Arrow, a part of Arrow Electronics, Inc., to purchase certain components necessary for the manufacture of our products as well as to provide comprehensive logistic services. The agreement is intended to ensure JIT (just in time) inventory and to reduce prices currently paid by us for components. In addition, regarding components purchased in bulk by Arrow for other customers, we are entitled to enjoy existing lower prices. Arrow is to purchase components on our behalf based upon rolling forecasts provided by us. While this agreement is intended to guarantee the supply of our products and reduce prices, it also increases our reliance on a single sub-contractor. Any inability on their part to substantively perform under the agreement could have an adverse effect on our operations. We operate in the highly competitive network communications industry. We may be unsuccessful in competing effectively against many of our competitors who have substantially greater financial resources. We operate in a highly competitive industry of network communications, both in the sales of our products and our services. As a result of the rapid technological changes that characterize our industry, we face intense worldwide competition to capitalize on new opportunities, to introduce new products and to obtain proprietary and standard technologies that are perceived by the market as being superior to those of our competitors. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial resources, providing them with greater research and development and marketing capabilities. These competitors may also be experienced in obtaining regulatory approvals for their products and services and in marketing them. Our relative position in the network communications industry may place us at a disadvantage in responding to our competitors’ pricing strategies, technological advances and other initiatives. Our SkyEdge family line includes both proprietary VSATs and a VSAT that is DVB-RCS compliant. Our principal competitors in the supply of VSAT networks are Hughes Network Systems, Inc., or HNS, ViaSat Inc., iDirect Technologies, IPStar, EMS Technologies, Inc. and Nera ASA. There are other manufacturers of products that compete with one or more of our products such as Alcatel Space, NDSatcom, Newtech and Polarsat. Another potential for product standardization in the VSAT industry is known as DOCSIS (Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification) for satellite communications. This concept is embedded in a product produced and sold by ViaSat directly in the international markets. In the United States, ViaSat delivers the same technology to the WildBlue consumer program that was launched in June 2005. This product is designed to be a low cost VSAT. This standardization could pose a threat to the acceptance in the market of our current and future non-DOCSIS for satellite products and could have an adverse effect on the market price for VSATs industry-wide. HNS introduced its own standard called IPoS (IP over satellite) which relies on the installed base of their DirecWay System. If accepted by other companies in the industry, this could have an adverse affect on the acceptance of our products. HNS is also expected to launch their SpaceWay Ka satellite program in the United States in 2006, which, if successful, could increase our competition and lower prices. We also compete with various mobile satellite communications companies such as Iridium, Globalstar, Asia Cellular Satellite (known as ACeS) and Thuraya Satellite Communications Company and companies that offer communication network systems based on other non-satellite technologies such as terrestrial lines (including cable, DSL, fixed wireless, ISDN lines, cellular GPRS and fiber optics), frame relay, radio and microwave transmissions. These technologies can often be cheaper than VSAT technology in some applications while still providing a sufficient variety of the features required by customers. Our actions to protect our proprietary VSAT technology may be insufficient to prevent others from developing products similar to our products. Our business is based mainly on our proprietary VSAT technology and related products and services. We establish and protect proprietary rights and technology used in our products by the use of patents, trade secrets, copyrights and trademarks. We also utilize non-disclosure and intellectual property assignment agreements. Because of the rapid technological changes and innovation that characterize the network communications industry, our success will depend in large part on our ability to protect and defend our intellectual property rights. Our actions to protect our proprietary rights in our VSAT technology and related products may be insufficient to prevent others from developing products similar to our products. In addition, the laws of many foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our ability to operate our business and generate revenues as expected may be harmed. - 9 - We depend on a single facility in Israel and are susceptible to any event that could adversely affect its condition. Most of our laboratory capacity, our principal offices and principal research and development facilities are concentrated in a single location in Israel. Fire, natural disaster or any other cause of material disruption in our operation in this location could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. As discussed above, to remain competitive in the network communications industry, we must respond quickly to technological developments. Damage to our facility in Israel could cause serious delays in the development of new products and services and, therefore, could adversely affect our business. In addition, the particular risks relating to our location in Israel are described below. Our international sales expose us to changes in foreign regulations and tariffs, tax exposures, political instability and other risks inherent to international business, any of which could adversely affect our operations. We sell and distribute our products and provide our services internationally, particularly in the United States, Asia, Africa, Europe and Latin America. A component of our strategy is to continue to expand into new international markets. Our operations can be limited or disrupted by various factors known to affect international trade. These factors include the following: — imposition of governmental controls, regulations and taxation which might include a government’s decision to raise import tariffs or license fees in countries in which we do business; — government regulations that may prevent us from choosing our business partners or restrict our activities. For example, a particular Latin American country may decide that high-speed data networks used to provide access to the Internet should be made available generally to Internet service providers and may require us to provide our wholesale service to any Internet service providers that request it, including entities that compete with us. If we become subject to any additional obligations such as these, we would be forced to comply with potentially costly requirements and limitations on our business activities. This could result in a substantial reduction in our revenue; — tax exposures in various jurisdictions relating to our activities throughout the world; — political instability in countries in which we do or desire to do business. For example, economic instability in Indonesia has led to a decrease in the value of the Indonesian Rupiah. If such decrease continues, this could adversely affect the ability of the Indonesian market to finance VSAT projects. We also face similar risks from potential or current political and economic instability in countries such as Russia, Kazakhstan, Angola, India and Kenya; — trade restrictions and changes in tariffs which could lead to an increase in costs associated with doing business in foreign countries; — difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations that might mandate employing staff in the United States and Israel to manage foreign operations. This change could have an adverse effect on the profitability of certain projects; — longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; — seasonal reductions in business activities; — foreign exchange risks due to fluctuations in local currencies relative to the dollar; and — relevant zoning ordinances that may restrict the installation of satellite antennas that might also reduce market demand for our service. Additionally, authorities may increase regulation regarding the potential radiation hazard posed by transmitting earth station satellite antennas’ emissions of radio frequency energy that may negatively impact our business plan and revenues. - 10 - Any decline in commercial business in any country can have an adverse effect on our business as these trends often lead to a decline in technology purchases or upgrades by private companies. We expect that in difficult economic periods, countries in which we do business will find it more difficult to raise financing from investors for the further development of the telecommunications industry. Any such changes could adversely affect our business in these and other countries. We may face difficulties in obtaining regulatory approvals for our telecommunication services, which could adversely affect our operations. Our telecommunication services require licenses and approvals by the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, in the United States, and by regulatory bodies in other countries. In the United States, the operation of satellite earth station facilities and VSAT systems such as ours are prohibited except under licenses issued by the FCC. We must also obtain approval of the regulatory authority in each country in which we propose to provide network services or operate VSATs. The approval process in Latin America and elsewhere can often take a substantial amount of time and require substantial resources. In addition, any approvals that are granted may be subject to conditions that may restrict our activities or otherwise adversely affect our operations. Also, after obtaining the required approvals, the regulating agencies may, at any time, impose additional requirements on our operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with any new requirements or conditions imposed by such regulating agencies on a timely or economic basis. Our lengthy sales cycles could harm our results of operations if forecasted sales are delayed or do not occur. The length of time between the date of initial contact with a potential customer or sponsor and the execution of a contract with the potential customer or sponsor may be lengthy and vary significantly depending on the nature of the arrangement. During any given sales cycle, we may expend substantial funds and management resources and not obtain significant revenue, resulting in a negative impact on our operating results. Possible need for additional funds. Our cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2005 were approximately $74.9 million. We currently expect our cash and cash equivalents to be sufficient for use in our current operations. If we choose to expand our business by acquiring a complementary business or businesses, we may be required to raise additional funds to finance such activities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise necessary funds or that we will be able to do so on terms acceptable to us. Any such additional funding may result in significant dilution to existing shareholders Our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and these quarterly variations in operating results, as well as other factors, may contribute to the volatility of the market price of our shares. Our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. The causes of fluctuations include, among other things: — the timing, size and composition of orders from customers; — our timing of introducing new products and product enhancements and the level of their market acceptance; — the mix of products and services we offer; and — the changes in the competitive environment in which we operate. The quarterly variation of our operating results, may, in turn, create volatility in the market price for our shares. Other factors that may contribute to wide fluctuations in our market price, many of which are beyond our control, include, but are not limited to: - 11 - — announcements of technological innovations; — customer orders or new products or contracts; — competitors' positions in the market; — changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; — conditions and trends in the VSAT and other technology industries; — our earnings releases and the earnings releases of our competitors; and — the general state of the securities markets (with particular emphasis on the technology and Israeli sectors thereof). In addition to the volatility of the market price of our shares, the stock market in general and the market for technology companies in particular have been highly volatile and at times, thinly traded. Investors may not be able to resell their shares following periods of volatility. We may at times be subject to claims by third parties alleging that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. We may be required to commence litigation to protect our intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property litigation may continue for an extended period and may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. There are numerous patents, both pending and issued, in the network communications industry. We may unknowingly infringe a patent. We may from time to time be notified of claims that we are infringing on the patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights owned by third parties. While we do not believe that we have in the past or are at present infringed on any intellectual property rights of third parties, we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to such claims. In addition, we may be required to commence litigation to protect our intellectual property rights and trade secrets, to determine the validity of and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against third-party claims of invalidity. An adverse result in any litigation could force us to pay substantial damages, stop designing or manufacturing, using and selling the infringing products, spend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, discontinue using certain processes or obtain licenses to use the infringing technology. In addition, we may not be able to develop non-infringing technology, nor might we be able to find appropriate licenses on reasonably satisfactory terms. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Potential product liability claims relating to our products could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be subject to product liability claims relating to the products we sell. Potential product liability claims could include those for exposure to electromagnetic radiation from the antennas we provide. Our agreements with our business customers generally contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims. We also maintain a product liability insurance policy. However, our insurance may not cover all relevant claims or may not provide sufficient coverage. To date, we have not experienced any material product liability claims. Our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected if costs resulting from future claims are not covered by our insurance or exceed our coverage. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient for every aspect or risk related to our business. Our business includes many risks, only some of which are covered by our insurance. For example, in many of our satellite capacity agreements, we do not have a back up for satellite capacity, nor do we have indemnification or insurance in the event that our supplier’s satellite malfunctions or is lost. In addition, we are not covered by our insurance for acts of fraud or theft. Our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected if significant costs resulting from these exposures are incurred. - 12 - We are involved in litigation alleging violations of the federal securities laws that may have an adverse effecton our business. On May 13, 2003, a complaint was filed with the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York against the Company and certain of its officers and directors asserting claims under Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The complaint was the result of the court-ordered consolidation of nine separate similar actions filed in March 2002 in the United States District Courts. In addition, a request was made to file a class action lawsuit in the Tel Aviv, Israel, District Court, but this action was stayed pending the outcome of the class action proceedings in the United States. The Complaint asserts the claims of purchasers of our securities from February 9, 2000 and through May 29, 2002, and alleges violations of the federal securities laws and claims that we issued material misrepresentations to the market. We have filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint, and on September 19, 2005, the court dismissed certain of the plaintiff’s claims. The plaintiffs have provided Gilat with a discovery demand. A conference with the plaintiffs has been scheduled for March to agree on the schedule and scope of the discovery. We believe that the allegations against us and certain of our current and former officers and directors are without merit and intend to contest them vigorously. However, these legal proceedings are in the preliminary stages and we cannot predict their outcome. The litigation process is inherently uncertain. While we hold insurance coverage, if we are not successful in defending these legal proceedings, we could incur substantial monetary judgments or penalties in excess of the available insurance coverage. In addition, regardless of the outcome of the litigation, the process could result in damage to our reputation. The proceedings could result in substantial costs not covered by our insurance coverage and the process may occupy a significant amount of time and attention of our senior management. In the past twelve months we have experienced significant changes in management and our board of directors. The changes in top leadership of the Company may have an ongoing adverse effect on our business. In June 2006, Mr. Erez Antebi rejoined the company as the Chief Executive Officer of our Gilat Network Systems business unit. In addition, in July 2005, in connection with the assignment of a Gilat loan by Bank Hapoalim B.M. to York Capital Management, six out of seven of our board members resigned and were replaced by new members. In addition, Shlomo Rodav, our then-Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer resigned. At that time, Mr. Amiram Levinberg, a co-founder and former President of our Company who had left following the restructuring of our Company in March 2003, returned as our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board. The many changes in management in the past year could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We face competition for personnel, particularly for employees with technical expertise. Our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected if we cannot hire and retain suitable personnel. We may engage in acquisitions that could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition, and dilute our stockholders’ equity. As part of our management changes which have occurred over the past three quarters, we have added a business development team, whose goal is to pursue new business opportunities. This team will pursue growth opportunities through internal development and through the acquisition of complementary businesses, products and technologies. We are unable to predict whether or when any prospective acquisition will be completed. The process of integrating an acquired business may be prolonged due to unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of our resources and management’s attention. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions, integrate acquired businesses into our operations, or expand into new markets. Further, once integrated, acquisitions may not achieve comparable levels of revenues, profitability or productivity as our existing business or otherwise perform as expected. The occurrence of any of these events could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Future acquisitions may require substantial capital resources, which may not be available to us or may require us to seek additional debt or equity financing. Future acquisitions by us could result in the following, any of which could seriously harm our results of operations or the price of our stock: - 13 - — issuance of equity securities that would dilute our current stockholders' percentages of ownership; — large one-time write-offs; — the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; — difficulties in the assimilation and integration of operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of the acquired companies; — diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; — contractual disputes; — risks of entering geographic and business markets in which we have no or only limited prior experience; and — potential loss of key employees of acquired organizations. Our failure to manage growth effectively could impair our business, financial condition and results of operations. The implementation of SFAS No. 123R, which requires us to record compensation expenses in connection with equity share based compensation may reduce our profitability significantly. On December 16, 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment (“SFAS No. 123R”), which is a revision of SFAS No. 123. Generally, the approach in SFAS 123(R) is similar to the approach described in Statement 123. However, SFAS No. 123 permitted, but not required, share-based payments to employees to be recognized based on their fair values while SFAS No. 123(R) requires, as of the first quarter of 2006, all share-based payments to employees to be recognized based on their fair values. SFAS No. 123R also revises, clarifies and expands guidance in several areas, including measuring fair value, classifying an award as equity or as a liability and attributing compensation cost to reporting periods. The adoption of SFAS No. 123R may have a significant effect on our results of operations. In addition, such adoption could also limit our ability to continue to use stock options as an incentive and retention tool, which could, in turn, hurt our ability to recruit employees and retain existing employees. Had we adopted SFAS 123(R) in 2005, the impact of that standard would have approximated $7 million, as described in the disclosure of pro forma net income and earnings per share in our consolidated financial statements. Risks Related To The Shares And Our Capital Structure Our share price has been highly volatile, has experienced a significant decline, and may continue to be volatile and decline. The trading price of our shares has fluctuated widely in the past and may continue to do so in the future as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of many technology companies, particularly telecommunication and Internet-related companies, and that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our shares. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Securities class action litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. - 14 - We have never paid cash dividends and have no intention to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never paid cash dividends on our shares and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to continue retaining earnings for use in our business, in particular to fund our research and development, which are important to capitalize on technological changes and develop new products and applications. In addition, the terms of some of our financing arrangements restrict us from paying dividends to our shareholders. One of our controlling shareholders is also a major creditor of the Company. In July 2005, York Capital Management was assigned the substantial loan that we had from Bank Hapoalim B.M. York also has a proxy to vote approximately 15% of our shares. The interests of York as a major creditor of our company may conflict at times with the interests of our other shareholders. In addition, as per the terms of the amended loan agreement with York approved in December 2005, York may convert the loan into shares and become a dominating shareholder with approximately 32% of our outstanding shares. The interests of such a major potential shareholder may not be inherently the same as those of shareholders with a smaller ownership in our company. Our ordinary shares are traded on more than one market and this may result in price variations. Our ordinary shares are traded primarily on the Nasdaq National Market and on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. Trading in our ordinary shares on these markets is made in different currencies (US dollars on the Nasdaq National Market, and New Israeli Shekels on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange), and at different times (resulting from different time zones, different trading days and different public holidays in the United States and Israel). Consequently, the trading prices of our ordinary shares on these two markets often differ. Any decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on one of these markets could cause a decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on the other market. Risks Related To Regulatory Matters We have historically relied, and in the future intend to rely, upon tax benefits from the state of Israel on our taxable income. The termination or reduction of these tax benefits would significantly increase our costs and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Under the Israeli Law for Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959, some of our Israeli facilities qualify as “Approved Enterprises.” As a result, we have been eligible for tax benefits for the first several years in which we generated taxable income. Our historical operating results reflect substantial tax benefits, including tax exemptions and decreased tax rates up to December 31, 2000. In, 2003, 2004 and 2005, we had substantial losses for tax purposes and a decrease in revenues and therefore could not realize any tax benefits. On April 1, 2005, an amendment to the Investment Law came into effect (“the Amendment”) and has significantly changed the provisions of the Investment Law. The Amendment enacted major changes in the manner in which tax benefits are awarded under the Investment Law so that companies no longer require Investment Center approval in order to qualify for tax benefits. The amendment will be applied to new approved enterprises. Our financial condition and results of operations could suffer if the Israeli government terminated or reduced the current tax benefits available to us. In addition, in order to receive these tax benefits, we must comply with two material conditions. We must invest specified amount in property and equipment in Israel, and at least 25% of each new “Approved Enterprise” income should be derived from export. We believe we have complied with these conditions, but we have not received confirmation of our compliance from the government. If we fail in the future to comply in whole or in part with these conditions, we may be required to pay additional taxes and would likely be denied these tax benefits in the future, if and when we are profitable, which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. - 15 - We benefit from Israeli Government grants. The termination or reduction of these grants could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop new products and applications. Research and development grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Industry and Commerce, or the Chief Scientist during 2003, 2004 and 2005 amounted to approximately $3.5 million, $2.2 million, and $ 1.3 million, respectively. These grants enable us to develop new technologies to use in new products and applications. However, they also impose certain restrictions on us, as discussed below. Israeli authorities have indicated that the grant program may be reduced in the future. The termination or reduction of these grants to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop new products and applications, which could harm our business. The transfer and use of some of our technology and its production is limited because of the research and development grants we received from the Israeli Government to develop such technology. Such limitations may restrict our business growth and profitability. Our research and development efforts associated with the development of our OneWay VSAT product and our DialAw@y IP product and our SkyBlaster product have been partially financed through grants from the Chief Scientist. We are subject to certain restrictions under the terms of the Chief Scientist grants. Specifically, the products developed with the funding provided by these grants may not be manufactured, nor may the technology which is embodied in our products be transferred outside of Israel without appropriate governmental approvals and/or fines. These restrictions do not apply to the sale or export from Israel of our products developed with this technology. These restrictions could limit or prevent our growth and profitability. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ National Market, we may follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of NASDAQ requirements. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ National Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules, including the composition of our Board of Directors, director nomination procedure, compensation of officers, distribution of annual reports to shareholders, and quorum at shareholders meetings. In addition, we may follow Israeli law instead of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules that require that we obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events, such as for the establishment or amendment of certain equity based compensation plans, an issuance that will result in a change of control of our company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in our company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new Securities and Exchange Commission regulations and Nasdaq Stock Market rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities, which could harm our operating results and business prospects. - 16 - Risks Related To Doing Business In Israel Political and economic conditions in Israel may limit our ability to produce and sell our products. This could result in a material adverse effect on our operations and business. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel, where we also maintain our headquarters and most of our research and development and manufacturing facilities. Political, economic and security conditions in Israel directly influence us. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, Israel and its Arab neighbors have engaged in a number of armed conflicts. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Major hostilities between Israel and its neighbors may hinder Israel’s international trade and lead to economic downturn. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and business. Since October 2000, there has been substantial deterioration in the relationship between Israel and the Palestinian Authority that has resulted in increased violence. The future effect of this deterioration and violence on the Israeli economy and our operations is unclear. In August 2005, Israel evacuated all Israeli settlements in the Gaza Strip and four settlements in the West Bank. The implications of this action cannot at this time be foreseen. Ongoing violence between Israel and the Palestinians as well as tension between Israel and the neighboring Syria and Lebanon may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions or results of operations. In addition, in recent years Israel has been going through a period of recession in economic activity, resulting in low growth rates and growing unemployment. Our operations could be adversely affected if the economic conditions in Israel continue to deteriorate. In addition, due to significant economic measures proposed by the Israeli Government, there have been several general strikes and work stoppages in 2003 and 2004, affecting all banks, airports and ports. These strikes have had an adverse effect on the Israeli economy and on business, including our ability to deliver products to our customers. Following the passage by the Israeli Parliament of laws to implement the economic measures, the Israeli trade unions have threatened further strikes or work-stoppages, and these may have a material adverse effect on the Israeli economy and on us. You may not be able to enforce civil liabilities in the United States against our officers and directors. Most of our executive officers are non-residents of the United States. A significant portion of our assets and the personal assets of most of our directors and executive officers are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult to effect service of process upon any of these persons within the United States. In addition, a judgment obtained in the United States against us, and most of our directors and executive officers, including but not limited to judgments based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be collectible in the United States. Generally, it may also be difficult to bring an original action in an Israeli court to enforce liabilities based upon the U.S. federal securities laws against us and most of our directors and executive officers. Subject to particular time limitations, executory judgments of a United States court for liquidated damages in civil matters may be enforced by an Israeli court, provided that: — the judgment was obtained after due process before a court of competent jurisdiction, that recognizes and enforces similar judgments of Israeli courts, and according to the rules of private international law currently prevailing in Israel; — adequate service of process was effected and the defendant had a reasonable opportunity to be heard; — the judgment and its enforcement are not contrary to the law, public policy, security or sovereignty of the State of Israel; — the judgment was not obtained by fraud and does not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties; — the judgment is no longer appealable; and — an action between the same parties in the same matter is not pending in any Israeli court at the time the lawsuit is instituted in the foreign court. - 17 - Furthermore, if a foreign judgment is enforced by an Israeli court, it will be payable in Israeli currency. Current terrorist attacks in Israel and globally may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred in New York and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks in Israel and other acts of violence or war may affect the markets on which our shares trade, the markets in which we operate, and our operations and profitability. We cannot assure you that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the United States or Israel, or against American or Israeli businesses. These attacks or subsequent armed conflicts resulting from or connected to them may directly impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers. Furthermore, these terrorist attacks may make travel and the transportation of our supplies and products more difficult and more expensive and ultimately affect the sales of our products in the United States and overseas. Also, the ongoing armed conflicts around the world such as in Iraq could have a further impact on our sales, our profitability, our supply chain, our production capability and our ability to deliver product and services to our customers. Our operating results would be adversely affected if inflation in Israel is not offset on a timely basis by adevaluation of the new Israeli shekel (NIS) against the U.S. dollar. Our international sales expose us to fluctuations in foreign currencies. Most of our sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. When the Israeli inflation rate exceeds the rate of the NIS devaluation against foreign currencies, our NIS expenses increase to the extent of the difference between the rates. A significant disparity of this kind may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. We are incorporated under Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of holders of our ordinary shares are governed by our articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith toward the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. Israeli law provides that these duties are applicable in shareholder votes on, among other things, amendments to a company’s articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers and interested party transactions requiring shareholder approval. In addition, a shareholder who knows that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholder vote or to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or executive officer in the company has a duty of fairness toward the company. However, Israeli law does not define the substance of this duty of fairness. Because Israeli corporate law has undergone extensive revision in recent years, there is little case law available to assist in understanding the implications of these provisions that govern shareholder behavior. Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult a merger with or an acquisition of us, which could prevent achange of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make undesirable a merger or an acquisition of all or a significant portion of our shares or assets. Israeli corporate law regulates acquisitions of shares through tender offers and mergers, requires special approvals for transactions involving significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. These provisions of Israeli law could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions may limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for our ordinary shares. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions undesirable to us or to some of our shareholders. - 18 - Under current Israeli law, we may not be able to enforce covenants not to compete and therefore may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of our former employees. We currently have non-competition clauses in the employment agreements of nearly all of our employees. The provisions of such clauses prohibit our employees, if they cease working for us, from directly competing with us or working for our competitors. Recently, Israeli courts have required employers, seeking to enforce non-compete undertakings against former employees, to demonstrate that the competitive activities of the former employee will cause harm to one of a limited number of material interests of the employer recognized by the courts (e.g. the confidentiality of certain commercial information or a company’s intellectual property). In the event that any of our employees chooses to go and work for one of our competitors, we may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of our former employees obtained from us, if we cannot demonstrate to the court that harm would be caused to us. 