D. Risk Factors Investing in our ordinary shares involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before investing in our ordinary shares. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. In that case, the value of our ordinary shares could decline substantially, and you could lose all or part of your investment. 2 Risks Relating to Our Business We have incurred major losses in past years and may not operate profitably in the future. We reported an operating profit of $5 million and a net loss from continuing operations of $0.7 million in the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to an operating loss of $4.1 million and a net loss from continuing operations of $9.6 million in 2013. Our improved operating results in 2014 are mainly due to cost reductions. Our 2013 net loss is mainly attributable to the decrease in our revenues compared to 2012We incurred major losses in prior years and as of December 31, 2014 have an accumulated deficit of $652 million. We cannot assure you that we can operate profitably in the future. If we do not achieve profitable operations, our share price will decline and the viability of our company will be in question. Our available cash balance may decrease in the future if we cannot generate cash from operations. Our cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2014 was $27.7 million compared to $58.4 million as of December 31, 2013. Our negative cash flow from continuing operating activities was approximately $16.2 million in the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to a positive cash flow from continuing operating activities of $16.4 million in the year ended December 31, 2013.The decline in our cash flow from operating activities is mainly attributable to our investments in projects in Peru and Colombia. If we do not generate sufficient cash from operations in the future, including from our large-scale projects, our cash balance will decline and the unavailability of cash could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The delivery of our large scale projects requires us to invest significant funds and incur significant expenses before we receive full payment from our customers. This applies to the FITEL Regional Projects awarded to our subsidiary, Gilat Peru, by the Peruvian government (through FITEL), which are expected to generate $285 million in revenues over approximately 11 years. In general we use bank loans to finance such projects. If we fail to obtain the necessary funding or if we fail to obtain such funds on favorable terms, we will not be able to meet our commitments and our cash flow and operational results may be adversely affected. If the commercial satellite communications markets fail to grow, our business could be materially harmed. A number of the commercial markets for our products and services in the satellite communications area, including high throughput satellite and commercial on the move, have emerged in recent years. Because these markets are relatively new, it is difficult to predict the rate at which these markets will grow, if at all. If the markets for commercial satellite communications products fail to grow, our business could be materially harmed. Conversely, growth in these markets could result in satellite capacity limitations which in turn could materially harm our business and impair the value of our shares. Specifically, we derive most of our revenues from sales of satellite based communications networks and related equipment and provision of services related to these networks and products. A significant decline in this market or the replacement of VSAT and other satellite based technologies by an alternative technology could materially harm our business and impair the value of our shares. Because we compete for large-scale contracts in competitive bidding processes, losing a small number of bids or a decrease in the revenues generated from our large scale projects could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from large -scale contracts that we are awarded from time to time in competitive bidding processes. These large- scale contracts sometimes involve the installation of thousands of VSATs. The number of major bids for these large-scale contracts for satellite-based networks in any given year is limited and the competition is intense. Losing or defaulting on a relatively small number of bids each year could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results. 3 In March 2015, the Peruvian government awarded Gilat Peru the Regional FITEL Projects for the construction of networks, operation of the networks for a defined period and their transfer to the government, which are expected to generate revenues of $285 million, to be recognized over a period of approximately 11 years. In accordance with the bid conditions, we will establish a Peruvian subsidiary to enter into written agreements with the Peruvian government for each of the three regional projects that were awarded. In December 2013, Gilat Colombia was awarded a project, which is expected to generate revenues of $99 million over approximately three and a half years as part of the Kioscos Digitales project initiated by the Colombian Ministry of Information Technologies and Communications. In December 2013, Gilat Peru won a $30 million contract from FITEL for construction of a network, its operation over 10 years and other related services. See Item 4.B. – “Information on the Company – Business Overview – Services Division – overview”. If we default on any such large scale contract or bid requirements or if such contract is terminated, completed or reduced for any other reason, this could have an adverse impact on our operating results. Many of our large scale contracts are with governments or large governmental agencies in Latin America and other parts of the world, so that any volatility in the political or economic situation or any unexpected unilateral termination or suspension of payments could have a significant adverse impact on our business. In recent years, a significant portion of our revenues has been derived from large scale contracts with foreign governments and agencies, either directly or through contractors and system integrators, including those in Peru, Colombia, and Australia. Agreements with the governments in these countries typically include unilateral early termination clauses and involve other risks such as the imposition of new government regulations and taxation that could pose additional financial burdens on us. Changes in the political or economic situation in these countries can result in the early termination of our business there. Any termination of our business in any of the aforementioned countries could have a significant adverse impact on our business. In March 2015, the Peruvian government (through FITEL) awarded Gilat Peru the Regional FITEL Projects with expected revenues of $285 million over approximately 11 years for the construction of networks, operation of the networks for a defined period and their transfer to the government. In December 2013, Gilat Colombia was awarded a three and a half year long project valued at $99 million as part of the Kioscos Digitales project initiated by the Colombian Ministry of Information Technologies and Communications. In December 2013, Gilat Peru won a $30 million contract from the Peruvian government (through FITEL) for construction of a network, its operation over 10 years and other related services. See Item 4.B. – “Information on the Company – Business Overview – Services Division – overview.” Our failure to deliver upon our large-scale projects in an economical manner or a delay in collection of payments due to us in connection with any such large-scale project, could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results. We have been awarded a number of large-scale projects by foreign governments. The Peruvian FITEL Regional Projects that we were awarded in March 2015 are expected to generate revenues of $285 million over approximately 11 years, for the construction of networks to be operated by us for a defined period, and then transferred to the Peruvian government. While we have experience in the successful implementation of large-scale network infrastructure projects in rural areas, the FITEL Regional Projects are complex and require cooperation of certain third parties. Additionally, the delivery of such large-scale projects requires us to invest significant funds and incur significant expenses prior to generating revenues and receiving payment to cover such expenses. A failure to meet the projects’ schedule or fulfill our obligations in a timely manner could result in payment of fines and impact our ability to receive and recognize the expected revenues in part or in full in a timely manner, which could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results. Further, a failure to deliver upon our projects in an economical manner within the project’s budget could result in losses and significantly adversely impact our operating results. 4 We operate in the highly competitive network communications industry. We may be unsuccessful in competing effectively. We operate in a highly competitive industry of network communications, both in the sales of our products and our services. As a result of the rapid technological changes that characterize our industry, we face intense worldwide competition to capitalize on new opportunities, to introduce new products and to obtain proprietary and standard technologies that are perceived by the market as being superior to those of our competitors. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources, providing them with greater research and development and marketing capabilities. Our competitors may also be more experienced in obtaining regulatory approvals for their products and services and in marketing them. Our relative position in the network communications industry may place us at a disadvantage in responding to our competitors' pricing strategies, technological advances and other initiatives. Our principal competitors in the supply of VSAT networks are Hughes Network Systems, LLC, or HNS, ViaSat Inc. or Viasat, iDirect Technologies, or iDirect, and Newtec Cy N.V. Most of our competitors have developed or adopted different technology standards for their VSAT products. Our low-profile in-motion antennas target a market that has not yet matured and we compete with products from competitors such as General Dynamics, Cobham, Orbit Communication Systems, Qest Quantum Electronic Systems GmbH, L-3 Communications Holdings, Inc. , or L-3, Tecom Industries, Inc., or Tecom, and Thinkom Solutions. Wavestream’s competitors include Comtech Xicom Technology, Inc., CPI Satcom (which acquired Codan Satcom in 2012), General Dynamics SATCOM Technologies, and Paradise Datacom. In addition, ViaSat and HNS have launched their own satellites, which enable them to offer vertically integrated solutions to their customers, which may further change the competitive environment in which we operate and could have an adverse effect on our business. In Peru and Colombia, where we primarily operate public rural telecom services (voice, data and Internet) and recently undertook construction of fiber-optic transport and access networks based on wireless, we typically encounter competition on government subsidized bids from various service providers, system integrators and consortiums. Some of these competitors offer solutions based on VSAT technology and some on terrestrial technologies (typically, fiber and wireless technologies). In addition, as competing technologies such as cellular telephones and fiber optics in Peru and Colombia become available in rural areas where not previously available, our business could be adversely affected. Our lengthy sales cycles could harm our results of operations if forecasted sales are delayed or do not occur. The length of time between the date of initial contact with a potential customer or sponsor and the execution of a contract with the potential customer or sponsor may be lengthy and vary significantly depending on the nature of the arrangement. During any given sales cycle, we may expend substantial funds and management resources and not obtain significant revenue, resulting in a negative impact on our operating results. In some cases, we have seen longer sales cycles in all of the regions in which we do business. In addition, we have seen projects delayed or even canceled, which would also have an adverse impact on our sales cycles. In our mobility and defense businesses, in particular, sales cycles may be longer and it may be difficult to accurately forecast sales due to the uncertainty around defense projects and their award and starting periods. We have made acquisitions and may in the future enter into acquisitions that could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition, and dilute our shareholders' equity. We generally seek to acquire businesses that enhance our capabilities and add new technologies, products, services and customers to our existing businesses. We may not be able to continue to identify acquisition candidates on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we make additional business acquisitions, we may not realize the benefits anticipated from these acquisitions, including sales growth, cost synergies and improving margins. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain additional financing for business acquisitions, since such additional financing could be restricted or limited by the terms of our debt agreements or due to unfavorable capital market conditions. 5 Further, once integrated, acquisitions may not achieve comparable levels of revenues, profitability or productivity as our existing business or otherwise perform as expected. The occurrence of any of these events could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. In 2010, we completed the acquisition of RaySat Antenna Systems, or RAS, a leading provider of -on-the-move antenna solutions, of RaySat BG, a Bulgarian research and development center, and of Wavestream, a provider of SSPAs and BUCs, with high performance solutions designed for mobile and fixed satellite communication, or Satcom, systems worldwide. We may not be able to successfully integrate the businesses or exploit the solutions that we acquired or will acquire in the future. Further, we may not be able to achieve our growth targets for the acquired businesses, which could result in our incurring impairment charges. If our projection for growth in the airborne business does not materialize and we fail to obtain other business in our Defense Division, we would likely record an impairment of goodwill. Future acquisitions may require substantial capital resources, which may not be available to us or may require us to seek additional debt or equity financing. The risks associated with acquisitions by us include the following, any of which could seriously harm our results of operations or the price of our shares: · issuance of equity securities as consideration for acquisitions that would dilute our current shareholders' percentages of ownership; · significant acquisition costs; · decrease of our cash balance; · the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; · difficulties in the assimilation and integration of operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of the acquired companies; · diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; · contractual disputes; · risks of entering geographic and business markets in which we have no or only limited prior experience; · potential loss of key employees of acquired organizations. · the possibility that business cultures will not be compatible; · the difficulty of incorporating acquired technology and rights into our products and services; · unanticipated expenses related to integration of the acquired companies; · difficulties in implementing and maintaining uniform standards, controls and policies; Any of these events would likely result in a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 6 The continued decline in or a redirection of the U.S. defense budget could result in a material decrease in our sales, results of operations and cash flows. Our contracts and sales with and to systems integrators in connection with government contracts in the U.S. are subject to the congressional budget authorization and appropriations process. Congress appropriates funds for a given program on a fiscal year basis, even though contract periods of performance may extend over many years. Consequently, at the beginning of a major program, the contract is partially funded, and additional monies are normally committed to the contract by the procuring agency only as appropriations are made by Congress in future fiscal years. Department of Defense, or DoD, budgets are a function of factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to, changes in U.S. procurement policies, budget considerations, current and future economic conditions, presidential administration priorities, changing national security and defense requirements, geopolitical developments and actual fiscal year congressional appropriations for defense budgets. Any of these factors could result in a significant decline in, or redirection of, current and future DoD budgets and impact our future results of operations. The cuts in the DoD budget from the sequestration that was in effect in 2013 have had an adverse effect on the results of our Wavestream subsidiary in 2013 and 2012. In 2013 and 2012, Wavestream’s revenues from sales of SSPAs to systems integrators for government contracts decreased compared to our forecast and its revenues in the prior year, and we recorded impairment charges to goodwill and other intangible assets related to our investment in Wavestream of $31.9 million in 2012. See Item 5 – “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects– Operating Results”. In 2014, Wavestream’s revenues from sales of SSPAs to systems integrators for government contracts increased compared to 2013. In 2013 and 2014 we performed an impairment test and no impairment charges were identified. Concerns about increased deficit spending, along with continued economic challenges, continue to place pressure on the DoD budget and international customer budgets. These may result in reduced demand for our products, resulting in a reduction in our revenues, and an adverse effect on our business and results of operations, which could potentially trigger further goodwill impairment charges. Uncertainties in governmental spending may also adversely affect our efforts to further penetrate the defense market with our defense-related products. Any of these events would likely result in a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. If we are unable to competitively operate within the network communications market and respond to new technologies, our business could be adversely affected. The network communications market, which our products and services target, is characterized by rapid technological changes, new product introductions and evolving industry standards. If we fail to stay abreast of significant technological changes, our existing products and technology could be rendered obsolete. Historically, we have endeavored to enhance the applications of our existing products to meet the technological changes and industry standards. Our success is dependent upon our ability to continue to develop new innovative products, applications and services and meet developing market needs. To remain competitive in the network communications market, we must continue to be able to anticipate changes in technology, market demands and industry standards and to develop and introduce new products, applications and services, as well as enhancements to our existing products, applications and services. Competitors in satellite ground equipment market and low-profile antenna market are introducing new and improved products and our ability to remain competitive in this field will depend in part on our ability to advance our own technology. New products and technologies for power amplifiers, such as Gallium Nitride, or GaN, may compete with our current Wavestream SSPA offerings and may reduce the market prices and success of Wavestream’s products. If we are unable to respond to technological advances on a cost-effective and timely basis, or if our new products or applications are not accepted by the market, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. 7 A decrease in the selling prices of our products and services could materially harm our business. The average selling prices of wireless communications products historically decline over product life cycles. In particular, we expect the average selling prices of our products to decline as a result of competitive pricing pressures and customers who negotiate discounts based on large unit volumes. A decrease in the selling prices of our products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we are unable to competitively operate within the HTS satellite environment, our business could be adversely affected. In the U.S. market, some of our competitors have launched Ka-band satellites. These actions may affect our competitiveness due to the relative lower cost of Ka-band space segment per user as well as the increased integration of the VSAT technology in the satellite solution. Due to the current nature of the HTS solution where the initial investment in ground segment gateway equipment is relatively high, ground segment equipment effectively becomes tightly coupled to the specific satellite technology. As such, there may be circumstances where it is difficult for competitors to compete with the incumbent VSAT vendor using the particular HTS satellite. If this occurs, the market dynamics may change to favor a VSAT vendor partnering with the satellite service provider, which may decrease the number of vendors who may be able to succeed. If we are unable to forge such a partnership our business could be adversely affected. Although we have entered the HTS market with responsive HTS VSAT technology, we expect that our penetration into that market will be gradual and our success is not assured. In addition, our competitors, who are producing large numbers of HTS VSATs, may benefit from cost advantages. If we are unable to reduce our HTS VSAT costs sufficiently, we may not be competitive in the international market. We also expect that competition in this industry will continue to increase. If we lose existing contracts or orders for our products are not renewed, our ability to generate revenues will be harmed. A significant part of our business in previous years, including in 2014, was generated from recurring customers. Accordingly, the termination or non-renewal of our contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Some of our existing contracts could be terminated due to any of the following reasons, among others: · dissatisfaction of our customers with our products and/or the services we provide or our inability to provide or install additional products or requested new applications on a timely basis; · customers' default on payments due; · our failure to comply with financial covenants in our contracts; · the cancellation of the underlying project by the sponsoring government body; or · the loss of existing contracts or a decrease in the number of renewals of orders or a decrease in the number of new large orders. If we are not able to retain our present customer base and gain new customers, our revenues will decline significantly. In addition, if our service businesses in Peru and Colombia do not win new government related contracts, this could materially adversely affect our financial position. 8 If we fail to penetrate new markets and expand our business in markets other than the defense market in the U.S., our business in the U.S. will remain dependent on the defense market, a reduction of which could have a material adverse effect on our overall business. A substantial portion of our product revenues from North America are dependent on business from the defense market, being derived directly or indirectly through contractors and system integrators from sales to government agencies, mainly the DoD, pursuant to contracts awarded under defense-related programs. Government spending under such contracts may cease or may be reduced, which would cause a negative effect on our revenues, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. We experienced a reduction in revenues from such customers in recent years and there is no assurance that there will not be a further reduction in the future. Although we have begun to move into the avionics and international markets, we may not be successful in our plans to penetrate these markets, which are relatively new and untried for our SSPA product line and will require additional expenditures for research and development and sales and marketing. We may also not be able to develop new technologies for those markets on a timely basis. Barriers to entry into those markets or delays in our development programs could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Our failure to obtain or maintain authorizations under the U.S. export control and trade sanctions laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. The export of some of our satellite communication products, related technical information and services is subject to U.S. State Department, Commerce Department and Treasury Department regulations, including International Traffic in Arms Regulations, or ITAR. Under ITAR, our non US employees, including employees of our headquarters in Israel are barred from accessing certain information of our U.S. subsidiaries, unless appropriate licenses are obtained. In addition to the U.S. export control laws and regulations applicable to us, some of our subcontractors and vendors may also be subject to U.S. export control laws and regulations. These subcontractors and vendors may be forced to flow down requirements and restrictions imposed on products and services we purchase from them. If we do not maintain our existing authorizations or obtain necessary future authorizations under the export control laws and regulations of the U.S., including by entering into technical assistance agreements to disclose technical data or provide services to foreign persons, we may be unable to export technical information or equipment to non-U.S. persons and companies, including to our own non-U.S. employees, as may be required to fulfill contracts we may enter into. In addition, to participate in classified U.S. government programs, we would have to obtain security clearances from the DoD, for one or more of our subsidiaries that would want to participate. Such clearance may require that we enter into a proxy agreement or another similar arrangement with the U.S. government, which would limit our ability to control the operations of the subsidiary and which may impose on us substantial administrative burdens in order to comply. Further, if we materially violate the terms of any proxy agreement, the subsidiary holding the security clearances may be suspended or debarred from performing any government contracts, whether classified or unclassified. If we fail to maintain or obtain the necessary authorizations under the U.S. export control laws and regulations, we may not be able to realize our market focus and our business could be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to comply with Israel’s enhanced export control regulations our ability to export our products from Israel could be negatively impacted. Our export of military products and related technical information is also subject to enhanced Israeli Ministry of Defense regulations regarding defense export controls and the export of “dual use” items (items that are typically sold in the commercial market but that may also be used in the defense market). Some of our products are exempted from Israeli Ministry of Defense export control. The Israeli Ministry of Defense may change the classification of our existing commercial products or may determine that new products we develop are not exempt from Israeli Ministry of Defense export control. This would place such products subject to the Israeli Ministry of Defense export control regulations as military products or “dual use” items, which would impose on our sales process stringent constraints in relation to each sale transaction and limit our markets. If we do not maintain our existing authorizations and exemption or obtain necessary future authorizations and exemptions under the export control laws and regulations of Israel, including export licenses for the sale of our equipment and the transfer of technical information, we may be unable to export technical information or equipment outside of Israel, we may not be able to realize our market focus and our business could be materially adversely affected / 9 We are dependent on contracts with governments around the world for a significant portion of our revenue. These contracts may expose us to additional business risks and compliance obligations. We have focused on expanding our business to include contracts with or for various governments and governmental agencies around the world, including U.S. federal, state, and local government agencies through contractors or systems integrators. Our contracts with international governments generally contain unfavorable termination provisions. Our governmental customers generally may unilaterally suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations and terminate existing contracts and audit our contract-related costs. If a termination right is exercised by a governmental customer, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, our business generated from government contracts may be materially adversely affected if: · our reputation or relationship with government agencies is impaired; · we are suspended or otherwise prohibited from contracting with a domestic or foreign government or any significant law enforcement agency; · levels of government expenditures and authorizations for law enforcement and security related programs decrease or shift to program in areas where we do not provide products and services; · we are prevented from entering into new government contracts or extending existing government contracts based on violations or suspected violations of laws or regulations, including those related to procurement; · we are not granted security clearances that are required to sell our products to domestic or foreign governments or such security clearances are deactivated; · there is a change in government procurement procedures or conditions of remuneration; or · there is a change in the political climate that adversely affects our existing or prospective relationships. We depend on our main facility in Israel and are susceptible to any event that could adversely affect its condition as well as the condition of our facilities elsewhere. A material portion of our laboratory capacity, our principal offices and principal research and development facilities are concentrated in a single location in Israel. We also have significant facilities for research and development and manufacturing of components for our low profile antennas at a single location in Bulgaria as well as a research and development center in Moldova. Wavestream’s principal offices, research and development and engineering and manufacturing facilities are located at a single location in California and its additional research and development and engineering facility is located in Singapore. Fire, natural disaster or any other cause of material disruption in our operation in any of these locations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 10 We are dependent upon a limited number of suppliers for key components that are incorporated in our products, including those used to build our hubs and VSATs, and may be significantly harmed if we are unable to obtain such components on favorable terms or on a timely basis. We are also dependent upon a limited number of suppliers of space segment, or transponder capacity, and may be significantly harmed if we are unable to obtain the space segment for the provision of services on favorable terms or on a timely basis. Several of the components required to build our VSATs and hubs are manufactured by a limited number of suppliers. Although we have managed to solve the difficulties we had with our suppliers with respect to availability of components, we cannot assure you of the continued availability of key components or our ability to forecast our component requirements sufficiently in advance. Our research and development and operations groups are continuously working with our suppliers and subcontractors to obtain components for our products on favorable terms in order to reduce the overall price of our products. If we are unable to obtain the necessary volume of components at sufficiently favorable terms or prices, we may be unable to produce our products at competitive prices. As a result, sales of our products may be lower than expected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, our suppliers are not always able to meet our requested lead times. If we are unable to satisfy customers' needs on time, we could lose their business. In 2007, we entered into an outsourcing manufacturing agreement with a single source manufacturer for almost all of our VSAT indoor units. This agreement exposes us to certain risks related to our dependence on a single manufacturer which could include failure in meeting time tables and quantities, or material price increases which may affect our ability to provide competitive prices. We estimate that the replacement of the outsourcing manufacturer would, if necessary, take a period of between six to nine months. There are only a limited number of suppliers of satellite transponder capacity and a limited amount of space segment available. We are dependent on these suppliers for our provision of services in Peru, and Colombia. While we do secure long term agreements with our satellite transponder providers, we cannot assure the continuous availability of space segment, the pricing upon renewals of space segment and the continuous availability and coverage in the regions where we supply services. If we are unable to secure contracts with satellite transponder providers with reliable service at competitive prices, our services business could be adversely affected. We would be adversely affected if we are unable to attract and retain key personnel Our success depends in part on key management, sales, marketing and development personnel and our continuing ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel, including with respect to our acquired companies. There is competition for the services of such personnel. The loss of the services of senior management and key personnel, and the failure to attract highly qualified personnel in the future, may have a negative impact on our business. Moreover, our competitors may hire and gain access to the expertise of our former employees or our former employees may compete with us. In 2014, three key employees of our Wavestream subsidiary, including Wavestream’s chief executive officer, resigned from Wavestream. While we have successfully found replacements for these employees in a timely manner, there is no assurance that such former employees will not compete with us or that we will be able to find replacements for departing key employees in the future. If demand for our Satcom-On-The-Move products, VSATs and other products declines or if we are unable to develop products to meet demand, our business could be adversely affected. Our low-profile in-motion antenna systems and a portion of our SSPA product lines are intended for mobile Satcom-On-The-Move applications. If the demand for such products, our VSATs or other products declines, or if we are unable to develop products that are competitive in technology and pricing, we may not be able to realize our market focus and our Satcom-On-The-Move business and other businesses could be materially adversely affected. 11 We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which may limit our ability to compete effectively. Our business is based mainly on our proprietary technology and related products and services. We establish and protect proprietary rights and technology used in our products by the use of patents, trade secrets, copyrights and trademarks. We also utilize non-disclosure and intellectual property assignment agreements. Because of the rapid technological changes and innovation that characterize the network communications industry, our success will depend in large part on our ability to protect and defend our intellectual property rights. Our actions to protect our proprietary rights in our VSAT and SSPAs technology and other products may be insufficient to protect our intellectual property rights and prevent others from developing products similar to our products. In addition, the laws of many foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. or we may have failed to enter into non-disclosure and intellectual property assignment agreements with certain persons. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our ability to operate our business and generate expected revenues may be harmed. Breaches of network or information technology security, natural disasters or terrorist attacks could have an adverse effect on our business. Breaches of network or information technology (IT) security, including unauthorized access or security breaches, inclement weather, natural or man-made disasters, earthquakes, explosions, terrorist attacks, acts of war, floods, fires, cyber-attacks, computer viruses, power loss, telecommunications or equipment failures, transportation interruptions, accidents or other disruptive events or attempts to harm our systems may cause equipment failures or disrupt our systems and operations. In particular, both unsuccessful and successful cyber-attacks on companies have increased in frequency, scope and potential harm in recent years. Any such event result in our inability to operate our facilities, which, even if the event is for a limited period of time, may result in significant expenses and/or loss of market share to other competitors in the market for telemanagement products and invoice management solutions. While we maintain insurance coverage for some of these events, which could offset some of the losses, the potential liabilities associated with these events could exceed the insurance coverage we maintain. A failure to protect the privacy of customer and employee confidential data against breaches of network or IT security could result in damage to our reputation. Any of these occurrences could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We have been subject, and will likely continue to be subject, to attempts to breach the security of our networks and IT infrastructure through cyber-attack, malware, computer viruses and other means of unauthorized access. However, to date, we have not been subject to cyber-attacks or other cyber incidents which, individually or in the aggregate, resulted in a material impact to our operations or financial condition. Trends and factors affecting the telecommunications industry are beyond our control and may result in reduced demand and pricing pressure on our products. We operate in the telecommunication industry and are influenced by trends of that industry, which are beyond our control and may affect our operations. These trends include: · adverse changes in the public and private equity and debt markets and our ability, as well as the ability of our customers and suppliers, to obtain financing or to fund working capital and capital expenditures; · adverse changes in the credit ratings of our customers and suppliers; · adverse changes in the market conditions in our industry and the specific markets for our products; · access to, and the actual size and timing of, capital expenditures by our customers; · inventory practices, including the timing of product and service deployment, of our customers; · the amount of network capacity and the network capacity utilization rates of our customers, and the amount of sharing and/or acquisition of new and/or existing network capacity by our customers; · the overall trend toward industry consolidation and rationalization among our customers, competitors, and suppliers; 12 · price reductions by our direct competitors and by competing technologies including, for example, the introduction of HTS satellite systems by our direct competitors which could significantly drive down market prices or limit the availability of satellite capacity for use with our VSAT systems; · conditions in the broader market for communications products, including data networking products and computerized information access equipment and services; · governmental regulation or intervention affecting communications or data networking; · monetary instability in the countries where we operate; and · the effects of war and acts of terrorism, such as disruptions in general global economic activity, changes in logistics and security arrangements, and reduced customer demand for our products and services. These trends and factors may reduce the demand for our products and services or require us to increase our research and development expenses and may harm our financial results. Unfavorable global economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition The financial and economic conditions in the countries in which we operate may cause revenues of our customers to decrease. This may result in reductions in sales of our products and services in some markets, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. In addition, weakness in the end-user market could negatively affect the cash flow of our customers who could, in turn, delay paying their obligations to us or ask us for vendor financing. This could increase our credit risk exposure and cause delays in our recognition of revenues on future sales to these customers. Specific economic trends, such as declines in the demand for telecommunications products and services, the tightening of credit markets, or weakness in corporate spending, could have a direct impact on our business. Any of these events would likely harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If global economic and market conditions do not improve, or weaken further, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our international sales expose us to changes in foreign regulations and tariffs, tax exposures, political instability and other risks inherent to international business, any of which could adversely affect our operations. We sell and distribute our products and provide our services internationally, particularly in the U.S., Latin America, Asia, Asia Pacific, Africa and Europe. A component of our strategy is to continue and expand in international markets. Our operations can be limited or disrupted by various factors known to affect international trade. These factors include the following: · imposition of governmental controls, regulations and taxation which might include a government's decision to raise import tariffs or license fees in countries in which we do business; · government regulations that may prevent us from choosing our business partners or restrict our activities; · the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, and similar anti-corruption laws in other jurisdictions, which include anti-bribery provisions. We have adopted internal policies mandating compliance with these laws. Nevertheless, we may not always be protected in cases of violation of the FCPA or other anti-corruption laws by our employees or third-parties acting on our behalf. A violation of anti-corruption laws by our employees or third-parties during the performance of their obligations for us may have a material adverse effect on our reputation, operating results and financial condition; 13 · tax exposures in various jurisdictions relating to our activities throughout the world; · political and/or economic instability in countries in which we do or desire to do business. Such unexpected changes could have an adverse effect on the gross margin of some of our projects. This includes similar risks from potential or current political and economic instability as well as volatility of foreign currencies in countries such as Colombia, Brazil, Venezuela and certain countries in East Asia; · difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations that might mandate employing staff in various countries to manage foreign operations. This requirement could have an adverse effect on the profitability of certain projects; · longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; · foreign exchange risks due to fluctuations in local currencies relative to the dollar; and · relevant zoning ordinances that may restrict the installation of satellite antennas and might also reduce market demand for our service. Additionally, authorities may increase regulation regarding the potential radiation hazard posed by transmitting earth station satellite antennas' emissions of radio frequency energy that may negatively impact our business plan and revenues. Any decline in commercial business in any country may have an adverse effect on our business as these trends often lead to a decline in technology purchases or upgrades by private companies. We expect that in difficult economic periods, countries in which we do business will find it more difficult to raise financing from investors for the further development of the telecommunications industry and private companies will find it more difficult to finance the purchase or upgrade of our technology. Any such changes could adversely affect our business in these and other countries. We may face difficulties in obtaining regulatory approvals for our telecommunication services and products, which could adversely affect our operations. Certain of our telecommunication operations require licenses and approvals by the Israeli Ministry of Communication, the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, in the U.S. and by regulatory bodies in other countries. In Israel and the U.S., the operation of satellite earth station facilities and VSAT systems such as ours are prohibited except under licenses issued by the Israeli Ministry of Communication and the FCC in the U.S. Our airborne products require licenses and approvals by the Federal Aviation Agency, or FAA. We must also obtain approval of the regulatory authority in each country in which we propose to provide network services or operate VSATs. The approval process in Latin America and elsewhere can often take a substantial amount of time and require substantial resources. In addition, any licenses and approvals that are granted may be subject to conditions that may restrict our activities or otherwise adversely affect our operations. Also, after obtaining the required licenses and approvals, the regulating agencies may, at any time, impose additional requirements on our operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with any new requirements or conditions imposed by such regulating agencies on a timely or economically efficient basis. Our products are also subject to requirements to obtain certification of compliance with local regulatory standards. Delays in receiving such certification could adversely affect our operations. 14 Currency exchange rates and fluctuations of currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations, liabilities, and assets. Since we operate in several countries, we are impacted by currency exchange rates and fluctuations of various currencies. Although partially mitigated by our hedging activities, we are impacted by currency exchange rates and fluctuations thereof in a number of ways, including the following: · A significant portion of our expenses, principally salaries and related personnel expenses, are incurred in new Israeli shekels (or NIS), and to a lesser extent, other non-U.S. dollar currencies, whereas the currency we use to report our financial results is the U.S. dollar and a significant portion of our revenue is generated in U.S. dollars. A significant strengthening of the NIS against the U.S. dollar can considerably increase the U.S. dollar value of our expenses in Israel and our results of operations may be adversely affected; · A portion of our international sales is denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including the Colombian Peso, Australian Dollar, Brazilian Real, Peruvian Sol, Russian Ruble and the Mexican Peso, therefore we are exposed to the risk of devaluation of such currencies relative to the dollar which could have a negative impact on our revenues; · We have assets and liabilities that are denominated in non-U.S. dollar currencies. Therefore, significant fluctuation in these other currencies could have significant effect on our results; and · A portion of our U.S. dollar revenues are derived from customers operating in local currencies which are different from the U.S. dollar. Therefore, devaluation in the local currencies of our customers relative to the U.S. dollar could cause our customers to cancel or decrease orders or delay payment. We are also subject to other foreign currency risks including repatriation restrictions in certain countries, particularly in Latin America. As noted above, from time to time, we enter into hedging transactions to attempt to limit the impact of foreign currency fluctuations. However, the protection provided by such hedging transactions may be partial and leave certain exchange rate-related losses and risks uncovered. Therefore, our business and profitability may be harmed by such exchange rate fluctuations. The transfer and use of some of our technology and its production is limited because of the research and development grants we received from the Israeli government to develop such technology. Our research and development efforts associated with the development of certain of our products have been partially financed through grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Economy, or the OCS. We are subject to certain restrictions under the terms of the OCS grants. Specifically, any product incorporating technology developed with the funding provided by these grants may not be manufactured, nor may the technology which is embodied in our products be transferred outside of Israel without appropriate governmental approvals. Such approvals, if granted, may involve increased royalties payments to the OCS (for royalty-bearing programs). These restrictions do not apply to the sale or export from Israel of our products developed with this technology. We may be subject to claims by third parties alleging that we infringe intellectual property owned by them. We may be required to commence litigation to protect our intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property litigation may continue for an extended period and may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. There are numerous patents, both pending and issued, in the network communications industry. We may unknowingly infringe on a patent. We may from time to time be notified of claims that we are infringing on patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights owned by third parties. While we do not believe that we have infringed in the past or are infringing at present on any intellectual property rights of third parties, we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to such claims or that damages for any such claim will not be awarded against us by court. 15 In addition, we may be required to commence litigation to protect our intellectual property rights and trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against third-party claims of invalidity or infringement. An adverse result of any litigation could force us to pay substantial damages, stop designing, manufacturing, using or selling related products, spend significant resources to develop alternative technologies, discontinue using certain processes or obtain licenses. In addition, we may not be able to develop alternative technology, and we may not be able to find appropriate licenses on reasonably satisfactory terms. Any such litigation, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We are subject to new regulations related to “conflict minerals”, which could adversely impact our business. In August 2012, based on the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted annual disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies who use certain minerals known as “conflict minerals” mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries in their products. These new requirements became effective for calendar year 2013 and annually thereafter, with initial disclosure requirements beginning in May 2014. There have been and will continue to be costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including for diligence to determine the sources of conflict minerals used in our products and potentially changes to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. The implementation of these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. As there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering “conflict free" minerals, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain the necessary minerals from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Also, we may face reputational challenges if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products through the procedures we may implement. Potential product liability claims relating to our products could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be subject to product liability claims relating to the products we sell. Potential product liability claims could include, among other things, those for exposure to electromagnetic radiation from the antennas we provide. We endeavor to include in our agreements with our business customers provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential claims. We also maintain a product liability insurance policy. However, our contractual limitation of liability may be rejected or limited in certain jurisdiction and our insurance may not cover all relevant claims or may not provide sufficient coverage. To date, we have not experienced any material product liability claim. Our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected if costs resulting from future claims are not covered by our insurance or exceed our coverage. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient for every aspect or risk related to our business. Our business includes risks, only some of which are covered by our insurance. For example, in our satellite capacity agreements, we do not have a backup for satellite capacity, and we do not have indemnification or insurance in the event that our supplier's satellite malfunctions or data is lost. Satellites utilize highly complex technology and operate in the harsh environment of space and therefore are subject to significant operational risks while in orbit. The risks include in-orbit equipment failures, malfunctions and other kinds of problems commonly referred to as anomalies. Satellite anomalies include, for example, circuit failures, transponder failures, solar array failures, telemetry transmitter failures, battery cell and other power system failures, satellite control system failures and propulsion system failures. Liabilities in connection with our products may be covered by insurance only to a limited extent or not covered at all. In addition, we are not covered by our insurance for acts of fraud or theft. Our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected if we incur significant costs resulting from these exposures. 16 Environmental laws and regulations may subject us to significant liability. Our operations are subject to various Israeli, U.S. federal, state and local as well as certain other foreign environmental laws and regulations within the countries in which we operate relating to the discharge, storage, treatment, handling, disposal and remediation of certain materials, substances and wastes used in our operations. New laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new clean-up requirements may require us to incur a significant amount of additional costs in the future and could decrease the amount of cash flow available to us for other purposes, including capital expenditures, research and development and other investments and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future prospects. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Ordinary Shares Our share price has been highly volatile and may continue to be volatile and decline. The trading price of our shares has fluctuated widely in the past and may continue to do so in the future as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of many technology companies, particularly telecommunication and Internet-related companies, and that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our shares. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Securities class action litigation against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources. Our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and these quarterly variations in operating results, as well as other factors, may contribute to the volatility of the market price of our shares. Our operating results have and may continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. The causes of fluctuations include, among other things: · the timing, size and composition of orders from customers; · the timing of introducing new products and product enhancements by us and the level of their market acceptance; · the mix of products and services we offer; and · the changes in the competitive environment in which we operate. The quarterly variation of our operating results, may, in turn, create volatility in the market price for our shares. Other factors that may contribute to wide fluctuations in our market price, many of which are beyond our control, include, but are not limited to: · economic instability; · announcements of technological innovations; · customer orders or new products or contracts; · competitors' positions in the market; · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; 17 · conditions and trends in the VSAT and other technology industries relevant to our businesses; · our earnings releases and the earnings releases of our competitors; and · the general state of the securities markets (with particular emphasis on the technology and Israeli sectors thereof). In addition to the volatility of the market price of our shares, the stock market in general and the market for technology companies in particular have been highly volatile and at times thinly traded. Investors may not be able to resell their shares during and following periods of volatility. We may in the future be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, which will subject our U.S. investors to adverse tax rules. Holders of our ordinary shares who are U.S. residents may face income tax risks. There is a risk that we will be treated as a “passive foreign investment company” or PFIC. Our treatment as a PFIC could result in a reduction in the after-tax return to the holders of our ordinary shares and would likely cause a reduction in the value of such shares. A foreign corporation will be treated as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of “passive income,” or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation’s gross assets produce, or are held for the production of, such types of “passive income.” For purposes of these tests, “passive income” includes dividends, interest, gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties that are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute “passive income”. Those holders of shares in a PFIC who are citizens or residents of the U.S. or domestic entities would alternatively be subject to a special adverse U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. In particular, any dividends paid by us, if any, would not be treated as “qualified dividend income” eligible for preferential tax rates in the hands of non-corporate U.S. shareholders. U.S. residents should carefully read Item 10E. “Additional Information – Taxation”, of this annual report on Form 20-F for a more complete discussion of the U.S. federal income tax risks related to owning and disposing of our ordinary shares. The concentration of our ordinary share ownership may limit our shareholders’ ability to influence corporate matters. As of March 25, 2015, FIMI Opportunity IV, L.P., FIMI Israel Opportunity IV, Limited Partnership, FIMI Opportunity V, L.P. and FIMI Israel Opportunity Five, Limited Partnership, or the FIMI Funds, and entities affiliated with the FIMI Funds beneficially own approximately 34.9% of our outstanding ordinary shares. As a result, the FIMI Funds may have a substantial influence over matters that require approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership might also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company that other shareholders may view as beneficial. Future sales of our ordinary shares and the future exercise of options may cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline and may result in a substantial dilution. We cannot predict what effect, if any, future sales of our ordinary shares by the FIMI Funds and our other significant shareholders, or the availability for future sale of our ordinary shares, including shares issuable upon the exercise of our options, will have on the market price of our ordinary shares. In May 2014 we filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission allowing for our issuance and sale of up to $50 million in ordinary shares, warrants to purchase ordinary shares or debt securities, debt securities consisting of debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness, subscription rights or units comprised of one or more of the other aforementioned securities. The shelf registration statement will expire in May 2017. Sales of substantial amounts of our ordinary shares in the public market by our company or our significant shareholders, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares and may make it more difficult for you to sell your ordinary shares at a time and price you deem appropriate. 18 We have never paid cash dividends and have no intention to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never paid cash dividends on our shares and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to continue retaining earnings for use in our business, in particular to fund our research and development, which are important to capitalize on technological changes and develop new products and applications. In addition, the terms of some of our financing arrangements restrict us from paying dividends to our shareholders. Any future dividend distributions are subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on various factors, including our operating results, future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, tax implications of dividend distributions on our income, future prospects and any other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. The distribution of dividends is also limited by Israeli law, which permits the distribution of dividends by an Israeli corporation only out of its retained earnings as defined in Israel’s Companies Law, 5759-1999, or the Companies Law, provided that there is no reasonable concern that such payment will cause us to fail to meet our current and expected liabilities as they become due, or otherwise with the court’s permission. You should not invest in our company if you require dividend income from your investment. Our ordinary shares are traded on more than one market and this may result in price variations. Our ordinary shares are traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market and on the TASE. Trading in our ordinary shares on these markets is made in different currencies (U.S. dollars on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, and NIS on the TASE), and at different times (resulting from different time zones, different trading days and different public holidays in the U.S. and Israel). Consequently, the trading prices of our ordinary shares on these two markets often differ. Any decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on one of these markets could cause a decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on the other market. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the reliability of our financial statements may be questioned and our share price may suffer. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes certain duties on us and on our executives and directors. To comply with this statute, we are required to document and test our internal control over financial reporting, and our independent registered public accounting firm must issue an attestation report on our internal control procedures, and our management is required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal control over financial reporting. Our efforts to comply with these requirements have resulted in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention, and we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. We may identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our assessments of our internal controls over financial reporting. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities, and could adversely affect our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information and the market price of our ordinary shares. Risks Related to Our Location in Israel Political and economic conditions in Israel may limit our ability to produce and sell our products. This could have a material adverse effect on our operations and business condition, harm our results of operations and adversely affect our share price. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel, where we also maintain our headquarters, manufacturing facilities and most of our research and development facilities. As a result, political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel directly influence us. Any major hostilities involving Israel, a full or partial mobilization of the reserve forces of the Israeli army, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Since its establishment in 1948, Israel has been involved in a number of armed conflicts with its Arab neighbors and a state of hostility, varying from time to time in intensity and degree, has continued into 2014. In recent years, there was an escalation in violence among Israel, Hamas, the Palestinian Authority and other groups, as well as extensive hostilities along Israel’s border with the Gaza Strip such as the missiles fired from the Gaza Strip into Israel during July-August 2014. On July 21, 2014, all U.S. airlines and most major airlines of other nationalities suspended their flights to Israel’s Ben-Gurion International Airport for several days after a missile landed approximately 1.5 km away. Also, riots and uprisings in several countries in the Middle East and neighboring regions have led to severe political instability in several neighboring states and to a decline in the regional security situation. Such instability may affect the local and global economy, could negatively affect business conditions and, therefore, could adversely affect our operations. In addition, Iran has threatened to attack Israel and is widely believed to be developing nuclear weapons. Iran is also believed to have a strong influence among extremist groups in areas that neighbor Israel, such as Hamas in Gaza and Hezbollah in Lebanon. To date, these matters have not had any material effect on our business and results of operations; however, the regional security situation and worldwide perceptions of it are outside our control and there can be no assurance that these matters will not negatively affect us in the future. Furthermore, there are a number of countries, primarily in the Middle East, as well as Malaysia and Indonesia that restrict business with Israel or Israeli companies, and we are precluded from marketing our products to these countries directly from Israel. Restrictive laws or policies directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses may have an adverse impact on our operations, our financial results or the expansion of our business. Your rights and responsibilities as a shareholder are governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from those under Delaware law. Because we are an Israeli company, the rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by our articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in a Delaware corporation. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith towards the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his, her or its power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. Israeli law provides that these duties are applicable to shareholder votes on, among other things, amendments to a company’s articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers and interested party transactions requiring shareholder approval. In addition, a shareholder who knows that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholders’ vote or to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or executive officer in the company has a duty of fairness towards the company. However, Israeli law does not define the substance of this duty of fairness. There is little case law available to assist in understanding the implications of these provisions that govern shareholder behavior. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, we follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements, which may not afford shareholders with the same protections that shareholders of domestic companies have. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of The NASDAQ Marketplace Rules. We follow Israeli law and practice instead of The NASDAQ Marketplace Rules with respect to the director nominations process and the requirement to obtain shareholder approval for the establishment or material amendment of certain equity-based compensation plans and arrangements. As a foreign private issuer listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, we may also follow home country practice with regard to, among other things, the requirement to obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events (such as for an issuance that will result in a change of control of the company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in the company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company). A foreign private issuer that elects to follow a home country practice instead of NASDAQ requirements must submit to NASDAQ in advance a written statement from an independent counsel in such issuer’s home country certifying that the issuer’s practices are not prohibited by the home country’s laws. In addition, a foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission each such requirement that it does not follow and describe the home country practice followed by the issuer instead of any such requirement. Accordingly, our shareholders may not be afforded the same protection as provided under NASDAQ’s corporate governance rules. 20 Our results of operations may be negatively affected by the obligation of our personnel to perform military service. A significant number of our employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israeli Defense Forces and may be called for active duty under emergency circumstances at any time. If a military conflict or war arises, these individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. Our operations could be disrupted by a significant absence of one or more of our key employees or a significant number of other employees due to military service. Any disruption in our operations could adversely affect our business. You may not be able to enforce civil liabilities in the U.S. against our officers and directors. We are incorporated in Israel. Almost all of our directors and executive officers reside outside the U.S., and a significant portion of our assets and the personal assets of most of our directors and executive officers are located outside the U.S. Therefore, it may be difficult to effect service of process upon any of these persons within the U.S. In addition, a judgment obtained in the U.S. against us, or against such individuals, including but not limited to judgments based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be collectible within the U.S. Additionally, it may be difficult for an investor or any other person or entity, to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws on the ground that Israel is not the most appropriate forum in which to bring such a claim. Even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law is applicable to the claim. Certain matters of procedures will also be governed by Israeli law. Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult a merger with or an acquisition of us, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make undesirable a merger or an acquisition of all or a significant portion of our shares or assets. Israeli corporate law regulates acquisitions of shares through tender offers and mergers, requires special approvals for transactions involving significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. These provisions of Israeli law could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions may limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for our ordinary shares. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions undesirable to us or to some of our shareholders. Under current Israeli law and the laws of other jurisdictions, we may not be able to enforce covenants not to compete and therefore may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of our former employees. We currently have non-competition clauses in the employment agreements of substantially all of our employees. The provisions of such clauses prohibit our employees, if they cease working for us, from directly competing with us or working for our competitors for a certain period of time. Israeli labor courts have required employers, seeking to enforce non-compete undertakings against former employees, to demonstrate that the competitive activities of the former employee will cause harm to one of a limited number of material interests of the employer recognized by the courts (for example, the confidentiality of certain commercial information or a company's intellectual property). In the event that any of our employees chooses to leave and work for one of our competitors, we may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of our former employee obtained from us, if we cannot demonstrate to the court that our interests as defined by case law would be harmed. Non-competition clauses may be unenforceable or enforceable only to a limited extent in other jurisdictions as well. 21 