D. Risk Factors Investing in our ordinary shares involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before investing in our ordinary shares. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In that case, the value of our ordinary shares could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business We have incurred major losses in past years and may not sustain profitable operations in the future. We had a net loss of approximately $1.1 million in 2008, compared to a net income of approximately $ 10.1 million in 2007 and approximately $ 10.5 million in 2006 and we have an accumulated deficit of $635 million. We cannot assure you that we can operate profitably in the future. If we do not regain profitability, the viability of our company will be in question and our share price could further decline. If commercial satellite communications markets fail to grow, our business could be materially harmed. A number of the commercial markets for our products and services in the satellite communications area, including our broadband products, have emerged in recent years. Because these markets are relatively new, it is difficult to predict the rate at which these markets will grow, if at all. If the markets for commercial satellite communications products fail to grow our business could be materially harmed. Conversely, growth in these markets could results in satellite capacity limitations which in turn could materially harm our business and impair the value of our shares. Specifically, we derive virtually all of our revenues from sales of VSAT communications networks and provision of services related to these networks. A significant decline in this market or the replacement of VSAT technology by an alternative technology could materially harm our business and impair the value of our shares. Trends and factors affecting the telecommunications industry are beyond our control and may result in reduced demand and pricing pressure on our products. We operate in the telecommunication industry and are influenced by trends of the telecommunications industry, which are beyond our control and may affect our operations. These trends include: — adverse changes in the public and private equity and debt markets and our ability, as well as the ability of our customers and suppliers, to obtain financing or to fund working capital and capital expenditures; — adverse changes in the credit ratings of our customers and suppliers; — adverse changes in the market conditions in our industry and the specific markets for our products; — access to, and the actual size and timing of, capital expenditures by our customers; — inventory practices, including the timing of product and service deployment, of our customers; — the amount of network capacity and the network capacity utilization rates of our customers, and the amount of sharing and/or acquisition of new and/or existing network capacity by our customers; 3 — the overall trend toward industry consolidation and rationalization among our customers, competitors, and suppliers; — increased price reductions by our direct competitors and by competing technologies including, for example, the introduction of Ka-band satellite systems by our direct competitors which could significantly drive down market prices or limit the availability of satellite capacity for use with our VSAT systems; — conditions in the broader market for communications products, including data networking products and computerized information access equipment and services; — governmental regulation or intervention affecting communications or data networking; — monetary stability in the countries where we operate; and — the effects of war and acts of terrorism, such as disruptions in general global economic activity, changes in logistics and security arrangements, and reduced customer demand for our products and services. These trends and factors may reduce the demand for our products and services or require us to increase our research and development expenses and may harm our financial results. Continuing unfavorable global economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition The recent crisis in the financial and credit markets has led to a global economic slowdown, with economies worldwide showing significant signs of weakness. If the economies in any part of the world continue to be weak or weaken further, our customers may reduce or postpone their spending significantly. This could result in reductions in sales of our products or services, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. In addition, weakness in the end-user market could negatively affect the cash flow of our customers who could, in turn, delay paying their obligations to us or ask us for vendor financing. This could increase our credit risk exposure and cause delays in our recognition of revenues on future sales to these customers. Specific economic trends, such as declines in the demand for telecommunications products and services, the tightening of credit markets, or weakness in corporate spending, could have a direct impact on our business. Any of these events would likely harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If global economic and market conditions do not improve, or continue to deteriorate, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Because we compete for large-scale contracts in competitive bidding processes, losing a small number of bids could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from being selected as the supplier of networks based on VSATs, under large-scale contracts that we are awarded from time to time in a competitive bidding process. These large-scale contracts sometimes involve the installation of thousands of VSATs. The number of major bids for these large-scale contracts for VSAT-based networks in any given year is limited and the competition is intense. Losing or defaulting on a relatively small number of bids each year could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results. 4 Many of our large-scale contracts are with governments or large enterprises in Latin America and other parts of the world, so that any instability in the exchange rates or in the political or economic situation or any unexpected unilateral termination or suspension of payments could have a significant adverse impact on our business. In recent years, a significant portion of our revenues has been derived from large-scale contracts with foreign governments and agencies, including those in Peru, Russia, Colombia and Mexico. Agreements with the governments in these countries typically include unilateral early termination clauses and other risks such as the imposition of new government regulations and taxation that could pose additional financial burdens on us. In addition, the foreign exchange risks in these countries are often significant due to possible fluctuations in local currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. We do not have a policy of hedging specific contracts. In some cases we hedge the risks involved in our general operations in Israel and in our subsidiaries abroad. Any termination of business in any of the aforementioned countries or any instability in the exchange rates could have a significant adverse impact on our business. In November 2002, we were awarded two large projects by the Colombian government, including the installation and operation of approximately 550 telecenters to provide Internet connectivity and telephony services in cities and towns throughout Colombia and a second network of approximately 3,300 sites with public rural satellite telephony. The original total value of the contracts was approximately $72 million and the remaining value of the contracts, which are being held in restricted cash, is approximately $24.0 million as of December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2008, we signed new agreements for the provision of services under these contracts which include the upgrade of technology, primarily in existing sites, requiring additional capital expenditure by us. While we expect that most of the $24 million held in restricted cash will be released during 2009, with the remaining amount to be released in 2010, we cannot make any assurances that we will be able to comply with the newly negotiated indicators and agreement terms. In addition, any early unilateral termination by the Colombian government could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results. Moreover, in the event that we do not generate new substantial business in Colombia during 2009 or 2010, our operations in Colombia will most likely generate losses in 2010. If we are unable to develop, introduce and market new innovative products, applications and services on a cost-effective and timely basis, our business could be adversely affected. The network communications market, to which our products and services are targeted, is characterized by rapid technological changes, new product introductions and evolving industry standards. If we fail to stay abreast of significant technological changes, our existing products and technology could be rendered obsolete. Historically, we have enhanced the applications of our existing products to meet the technological changes and industry standards. Our success is dependent upon our ability to continue to develop new innovative products, applications and services and meet developing market needs. To remain competitive in the network communications market, we must continue to be able to anticipate changes in technology, market demands and industry standards and to develop and introduce new products, applications and services, as well as enhancements to our existing products, applications and services. If we are unable to respond to technological advances on a cost-effective and timely basis, or if our new products or applications are not accepted by the market, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. A decrease in the selling prices of our products and services could materially harm our business. The average selling prices of wireless communications products historically decline over product life cycles. In particular, we expect the average selling prices of our products to decline as a result of competitive pricing pressures and customers who negotiate discounts based on large unit volumes. In some markets, such as in the US, our competitors have launched Ka-band satellites and another has announced plans to launch a Ka-band satellite. These actions may affect our competitiveness due to the relative lower cost of Ka-band space segment per user. We also expect that competition in this industry will continue to increase. To offset these price decreases, we intend to rely primarily on obtaining yield improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacturing process of existing products, on the introduction of new products with advanced features and on offering turnkey end-to-end solutions to communications operators that are higher up in the value chain. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain any yield improvements or cost reductions, introduce any new products in the future or reach the higher value chain to which we strive to sell. To the extent that we do not meet any or all of these goals, it could materially harm our business and impair the value of our shares. 5 If we lose existing contracts and orders for our products are not renewed, our ability to generate revenues will be harmed. A significant part of our business in 2008 was generated from recurring customers, and, as a result, the termination or non-renewal of our contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Some of our existing contracts could be terminated due to any of the following reasons, among others: — dissatisfaction of our customers with our products and/or the services we provide or our inability to provide or install additional products or requested new applications on a timely basis; — customers' default on payments due; — our failure to comply with financial covenants in our contracts; — the cancellation of the underlying project by the government-sponsoring body; or — the loss of existing contracts or a decrease in the number of renewals of orders or the number of new large orders. If we are not able to gain new customers and retain our present customer base, our revenues will decline significantly. In addition, if Spacenet has a higher than anticipated subscriber churn, or if Spacenet Rural does not win new government related contracts, as was the case in 2008, this could materially adversely affect our financial position. We are dependent upon a limited number of suppliers for key components to build our hubs and VSATs, and may be significantly harmed if we are unable to obtain the hardware necessary for our hubs and VSATs on favorable terms or on a timely basis. Several of the components required to build our VSATs and hubs are manufactured by a limited number of suppliers. We have not experienced any difficulties with our suppliers with respect to availability of components. However, we cannot assure you of the continuous availability of key components or our ability to forecast our component requirements sufficiently in advance. Our research and development and operations groups are continuously working with our suppliers and subcontractors to obtain components for our products on favorable terms in order to reduce the overall price of our products. If we are unable to obtain the necessary volume of components at sufficiently favorable terms or prices, we may be unable to produce our products at favorable terms or prices. As a result, sales of our products may be lower than expected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our suppliers are not always able to meet our requested lead times. If we are unable to satisfy customers’ needs, we could lose their business. In 2007 we entered into an outsourcing manufacturing agreement with a single source manufacturer for almost all of our indoor units. This agreement exposes us to certain risks related to our dependence on a single manufacturer which could include failure in meeting time tables and quantities, or material price increases which may affect our ability to provide competitive prices. We estimate that the replacement of the outsourcing manufacturer would, if necessary, take a period of between six to nine months. We operate in a highly competitive network communications industry. We may be unsuccessful in competing effectively against competitors who have substantially greater financial resources. We operate in a highly competitive industry of network communications, both in the sales of our products and our services. As a result of the rapid technological changes that characterize our industry, we face intense worldwide competition to capitalize on new opportunities, to introduce new products and to obtain proprietary and standard technologies that are perceived by the market as being superior to those of our competitors. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources, providing them with greater research and development and marketing capabilities. Our competitors may also be more experienced in obtaining regulatory approvals for their products and services and in marketing them. Our relative position in the network communications industry may place us at a disadvantage in responding to our competitors’ pricing strategies, technological advances and other initiatives. Our principal competitors in the supply of VSAT networks are Hughes Network Systems, LLC, or HNS, ViaSat Inc., and iDirect Technologies. Most of our competitors have developed or adopted different technology standards for their VSAT products. 6 In addition, the launch of the SpaceWAY3 satellite by HNS, which enables HNS to offer a vertically integrated solution to its customers, as well as the announcement concerning ViaSat Inc.‘s intention to launch its own satellite (ViaSat-1), may change the competitive environment in which we operate and could have an adverse effect on our business. In the U.S. market, where we operate as a service provider via Spacenet, the enterprise wide area network, or WAN, market is extremely competitive, with a number of established VSAT and terrestrial providers competing for nearly all contracts. The U.S. enterprise VSAT market is primarily served by HNS and Spacenet. In addition, more recently, Spacenet’s primary competitors in the enterprise WAN market are large terrestrial carriers such as AT&T, Verizon and Qwest. In Peru and Colombia, where we primarily operate public rural telecom services we typically encounter competition on government subsidized bids from various service providers, system integrators and consortiums. Some of these competitors offer solutions based on VSAT technology and some on alternate technologies (typically cellular, wireless local loop or WiMAX). As operators that offer terrestrial or cellular networks expand their reach to certain SRC regions, they compete with our VSAT solutions. In addition, as competing technologies such as cellular telephones become available in areas where not previously available in rural communities of Peru and Colombia, our business can be adversely affected. Our actions to protect our proprietary VSAT technology may be insufficient to prevent others from developing products similar to our products. Our business is based mainly on our proprietary VSAT technology and related products and services. We establish and protect proprietary rights and technology used in our products by the use of patents, trade secrets, copyrights and trademarks. We also utilize non-disclosure and intellectual property assignment agreements. Because of the rapid technological changes and innovation that characterize the network communications industry, our success will depend in large part on our ability to protect and defend our intellectual property rights. Our actions to protect our proprietary rights in our VSAT technology and related products may be insufficient to prevent others from developing products similar to our products. In addition, the laws of many foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our ability to operate our business and generate expected revenues may be harmed. We depend on a single facility in Israel and are susceptible to any event that could adversely affect its condition. Most of our laboratory capacity, our principal offices and principal research and development facilities are concentrated in a single location in Israel. Fire, natural disaster or any other cause of material disruption in our operation in this location could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. As discussed above, to remain competitive in the network communications industry, we must respond quickly to technological developments. Damage to our facility in Israel could cause serious delays in the development of new products and services and, therefore, could adversely affect our business. In addition, the particular risks relating to our location in Israel are described below. 7 Our international sales expose us to changes in foreign regulations and tariffs, tax exposures, political instability and other risks inherent to international business, any of which could adversely affect our operations. We sell and distribute our products and provide our services internationally, particularly in the U.S., Latin America, Asia, Africa and Europe. A component of our strategy is to continue to expand into new international markets. Our operations can be limited or disrupted by various factors known to affect international trade. These factors include the following: — imposition of governmental controls, regulations and taxation which might include a government’s decision to raise import tariffs or license fees in countries in which we do business; — government regulations that may prevent us from choosing our business partners or restrict our activities. For example, a particular Latin American country may decide that high-speed data networks used to provide access to the Internet should be made available generally to Internet service providers and may require us to provide our wholesale service to any Internet service provider that request it, including entities that compete with us. If we become subject to any additional obligations such as these, we would be forced to comply with potentially costly requirements and limitations on our business activities, which could result in a substantial reduction in our revenue; — tax exposures in various jurisdictions relating to our activities throughout the world; — political and/or economic instability in countries in which we do or desire to do business. For example, economic instability in Brazil has led to volatility of the value of the Brazilian Reals. Such unexpected changes have had an adverse affect on the gross margin of our projects in Brazil. We also face similar risks from potential or current political and economic instability as well as volatility of foreign currencies in countries such as Colombia, Russia, Kazakhstan, Angola, and India. — trade restrictions and changes in tariffs which could lead to an increase in costs associated with doing business in foreign countries; — difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations that might mandate employing staff in the U.S. and Israel to manage foreign operations. This change could have an adverse effect on the profitability of certain projects; — longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; — seasonal reductions in business activities; — foreign exchange risks due to fluctuations in local currencies relative to the dollar; and — relevant zoning ordinances that may restrict the installation of satellite antennas and might also reduce market demand for our service. Additionally, authorities may increase regulation regarding the potential radiation hazard posed by transmitting earth station satellite antennas’ emissions of radio frequency energy that may negatively impact our business plan and revenues. Any decline in commercial business in any country may have an adverse effect on our business as these trends often lead to a decline in technology purchases or upgrades by private companies. We expect that in difficult economic periods, such as the current recession, countries in which we do business will find it more difficult to raise financing from investors for the further development of the telecommunications industry, and private companies will find it more difficult to finance the purchase or upgrade of our technology. Any such changes could adversely affect our business in these and other countries. We may face difficulties in obtaining regulatory approvals for our telecommunication services, which could adversely affect our operations. Our telecommunication services require licenses and approvals by the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, in the U.S., and by regulatory bodies in other countries. In the U.S., the operation of satellite earth station facilities and VSAT systems such as ours are prohibited except under licenses issued by the FCC. We must also obtain approval of the regulatory authority in each country in which we propose to provide network services or operate VSATs. The approval process in Latin America and elsewhere can often take a substantial amount of time and require substantial resources. 8 In addition, any approvals that are granted may be subject to conditions that may restrict our activities or otherwise adversely affect our operations. Also, after obtaining the required approvals, the regulating agencies may, at any time, impose additional requirements on our operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with any new requirements or conditions imposed by such regulating agencies on a timely or economically efficient basis. Our lengthy sales cycles could harm our results of operations if forecasted sales are delayed or do not occur. The length of time between the date of initial contact with a potential customer or sponsor and the execution of a contract with the potential customer or sponsor may be lengthy and vary significantly depending on the nature of the arrangement. During any given sales cycle, we may expend substantial funds and management resources and not obtain significant revenue, resulting in a negative impact on our operating results. In the past year, we have seen longer sales cycles, primarily in the emerging markets. If this trend continues and is exacerbated, it could have an adverse effect on our ability to achieve profitability. Our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and these quarterly variations in operating results, as well as other factors, may contribute to the volatility of the market price of our shares. Our operating results have and may continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. The causes of fluctuations include, among other things: — the timing, size and composition of orders from customers; — the timing of introducing new products and product enhancements by us and the level of their market acceptance; — the mix of products and services we offer; and — the changes in the competitive environment in which we operate. The quarterly variation of our operating results, may, in turn, create volatility in the market price for our shares. Other factors that may contribute to wide fluctuations in our market price, many of which are beyond our control, include, but are not limited to: — economic instability; — announcements of technological innovations; — customer orders or new products or contracts; — competitors' positions in the market; — changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; — conditions and trends in the VSAT and other technology industries; — our earnings releases and the earnings releases of our competitors; and — the general state of the securities markets (with particular emphasis on the technology and Israeli sectors thereof). 9 In addition to the volatility of the market price of our shares, the stock market in general and the market for technology companies in particular have been highly volatile and at times thinly traded. Investors may not be able to resell their shares during and following periods of volatility. We may at times be subject to claims by third parties alleging that we are infringing on their intellectual property rights. We may be required to commence litigation to protect our intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property litigation may continue for an extended period and may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. There are numerous patents, both pending and issued, in the network communications industry. We may unknowingly infringe on a patent. We may from time to time be notified of claims that we are infringing on the patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights owned by third parties. While we do not believe that we have in the past or are at present infringed on any intellectual property rights of third parties, we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to such claims. In addition, we may be required to commence litigation to protect our intellectual property rights and trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against third-party claims of invalidity. An adverse result in any litigation could force us to pay substantial damages, stop designing or manufacturing, using and selling the infringing products, spend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, discontinue using certain processes or obtain licenses to use the infringing technology. In addition, we may not be able to develop non-infringing technology, and we may not be able to find appropriate licenses on reasonably satisfactory terms. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Potential product liability claims relating to our products could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be subject to product liability claims relating to the products we sell. Potential product liability claims could include those for exposure to electromagnetic radiation from the antennas we provide. Our agreements with our business customers generally contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims. We also maintain a product liability insurance policy. However, our insurance may not cover all relevant claims or may not provide sufficient coverage. To date, we have not experienced any material product liability claim. Our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected if costs resulting from future claims are not covered by our insurance or exceed our coverage. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient for every aspect or risk related to our business. Our business includes risks, only some of which are covered by our insurance. For example, in many of our satellite capacity agreements, we do not have a back up for satellite capacity, and we do not have indemnification or insurance in the event that our supplier’s satellite malfunctions or is lost. In addition, we are not covered by our insurance for acts of fraud or theft. Our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected if we incur significant costs resulting from these exposures. 10 We may engage in acquisitions that could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition, and dilute our shareholders’ equity. We have a corporate business development team whose goal is to pursue new business opportunities. This team pursues growth opportunities through internal development and through the acquisition of complementary businesses, products and technologies. We are unable to predict whether or when any prospective acquisition will be completed. The process of integrating an acquired business may be prolonged due to unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of our resources and management’s attention. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions, integrate acquired businesses into our operations, or expand into new markets. Further, once integrated, acquisitions may not achieve comparable levels of revenues, profitability or productivity as our existing business or otherwise perform as expected. The occurrence of any of these events could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Future acquisitions may require substantial capital resources, which may not be available to us or may require us to seek additional debt or equity financing. Future acquisitions by us could result in the following, any of which could seriously harm our results of operations or the price of our shares: — issuance of equity securities that would dilute our current shareholders' percentages of ownership; — large one-time write-offs; — the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; — difficulties in the assimilation and integration of operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of the acquired companies; — diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; — contractual disputes; — risks of entering geographic and business markets in which we have no or only limited prior experience; and — potential loss of key employees of acquired organizations. Our failure to manage growth effectively could impair our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Ordinary Shares Our share price has been highly volatile and may continue to be volatile and decline. The trading price of our shares has fluctuated widely in the past and may continue to do so in the future as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of many technology companies, particularly telecommunication and Internet-related companies, and that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our shares. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Securities class action litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. If U.S. tax authorities were to treat us as a "passive foreign investment company", that could have an adverse consequences on U.S. holders. Holders of our ordinary shares who are United States residents face income tax risks. There is a risk that we will be treated as a “passive foreign investment company.” Our treatment as a passive foreign investment company could result in a reduction in the after-tax return to the holders of our ordinary shares and would likely cause a reduction in the value of such shares. A foreign corporation will be treated as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of “passive income,” or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation’s gross assets produce, or are held for the production of, such types of “passive income.” For purposes of these tests, “passive income” includes dividends, interest, gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties that are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute “passive income.” Those holders of shares in a passive foreign investment company who are citizens or residents of the United States or domestic entities would alternatively be subject to a special adverse U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the passive foreign investment company, the distributions they receive from the passive foreign investment company and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the passive foreign investment company. In particular, any dividends paid by us would not be treated as “qualified dividend income” eligible for preferential tax rates in the hands of non-corporate U.S. shareholders. 11 The concentration of our ordinary share ownership may limit our shareholders’ ability to influence corporate matters. As of March 31, 2009, York Capital Management, or York, and entities affiliated with them beneficially own or vote approximately 20% of our outstanding ordinary shares. As a result, York may have a substantial influence over all matters that require approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. As a result, corporate actions might be taken even if other shareholders oppose them. This concentration of ownership might also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company that other shareholders may view as beneficial. Future sales of our ordinary shares and the future exercise of options may cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline and may result in substantial dilution. We cannot predict what effect, if any, future sales of our ordinary shares by York and our other 5% shareholders, or the availability of our ordinary shares for future sale, including shares issuable upon the exercise of our options, will have on the market price of our ordinary shares. Sales of substantial amounts of our ordinary shares in the public market by our 5% shareholders, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares and may make it more difficult for you to sell your ordinary shares at a time and price you deem appropriate. We have never paid cash dividends and have no intention to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never paid cash dividends on our shares and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to continue retaining earnings for use in our business, in particular to fund our research and development, which are important to capitalize on technological changes and develop new products and applications. In addition, the terms of some of our financing arrangements restrict us from paying dividends to our shareholders. Our ordinary shares are traded on more than one market and this may result in price variations. Our ordinary shares are traded on the NASDAQ Global Market and on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. Trading in our ordinary shares on these markets is made in different currencies (U.S. dollars on the NASDAQ Global Market, and new Israeli Shekels, or NIS, on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange), and at different times (resulting from different time zones, different trading days and different public holidays in the U.S. and Israel). Consequently, the trading prices of our ordinary shares on these two markets often differ. Any decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on one of these markets could cause a decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on the other market. 12 A request for a class action lawsuit has been filed against us and the results, if admitted as a formal class action in the District Court of Jerusalem, could have an adverse effect on our business. In October 2008, a lawsuit and a motion for its approval as a class action proceeding was filed in the District Court of Jerusalem by eight individuals and Israeli companies against us, claiming damages based on the amounts the shareholders would have been paid had the aborted merger agreement with the consortium of investors closed. We have filed a response and request to dismiss the motion which is pending. We believe that the allegations against us and certain of our current and former officers and directors are without merit and intend to contest them vigorously. However, these legal proceedings are in the preliminary stages and we cannot predict their outcome. The litigation process is inherently uncertain. If we are not successful in defending these legal proceedings, we could incur substantial monetary judgments or penalties in excess of available insurance coverage or result in damage to our reputation, and whether or not we are successful, the proceedings could result in substantial costs and may occupy a significant amount of time and attention of our senior management. Risks Related To Regulatory Matters We have historically relied, and in the future intend to rely, upon tax benefits from the State of Israel to reduce our taxable income. The termination or reduction of these tax benefits would significantly increase our costs and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Under the Israeli Law for Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959 (Investment Law), portions of our Israeli facility qualify as “Approved Enterprises.” As a result, we have been eligible for tax benefits for the first several years in which we generated taxable income from such “Approved Enterprise.” Our historical operating results reflect substantial tax benefits, including tax exemptions and decreased tax rates up to December 31, 2000. In 2001, 2002 and 2003, we had substantial losses for tax purposes and a decrease in revenues and therefore could not realize any tax benefits since then due to current and/or carry forward losses. On April 1, 2005, an amendment to the Investment Law, or the Amendment, came into effect, and has significantly changed the provisions of the Investment Law and the criteria for new investments qualified to receive tax benefits. The Amendment enacted major changes in the manner in which tax benefits are awarded under the Investment Law so that companies no longer require approval of the Investment Center of the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Labor of the State of Israel, or the Investment Center, in order to qualify for tax benefits. The Amendment will be applied to new approved enterprises, and there is no assurance that we will, in the future, be eligible to receive additional tax benefits under this law. Our financial condition and results of operations could suffer if the Israeli government terminated or reduced the current tax benefits available to us. In order to be eligible for these tax benefits under the Amendment, we must comply with two material conditions. We must invest a specified amount in property and equipment in Israel, and at least 25% of each new “Approved Enterprise” income should be derived from export. We believe we have complied with these conditions, but we have not received confirmation of our compliance from the Israeli government. If we fail in the future to comply in whole or in part with these conditions, we may be required to pay additional taxes and would likely be denied these tax benefits in the future, which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. For additional information concerning Israeli taxation, please see “Israeli Taxation.” The transfer and use of some of our technology and its production is limited because of the research and development grants we received from the Israeli government to develop such technology. Our research and development efforts associated with the development of certain of our legacy products have been partially financed through grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor. We may be subject to certain restrictions under the terms of the Chief Scientist grants. Specifically, any product incorporating technology developed with the funding provided by these grants may not be manufactured, nor may the technology which is embodied in our products be transferred outside of Israel without appropriate governmental approvals. These restrictions do not apply to the sale or export from Israel of our products developed with this technology. 13 Your rights and responsibilities as a shareholder are governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from those under Delaware law. Because we are an Israeli company, the rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by our articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in a Delaware corporation. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith towards the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his, her or its power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. Israeli law provides that these duties are applicable to shareholder votes on, among other things, amendments to a company’s articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers and interested party transactions requiring shareholder approval. In addition, a shareholder who knows that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholders’ vote or to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or executive officer in the company has a duty of fairness towards the company. However, Israeli law does not define the substance of this duty of fairness. Because Israeli corporate law has undergone extensive revisions in recent years, there is little case law available to assist in understanding the implications of these provisions that govern shareholder behavior. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, we may follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements, which may not afford shareholders with the same protections that shareholders of domestic companies have. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules. A foreign private issuer that elects to follow a home country practice instead of such requirements must submit to NASDAQ in advance a written statement from an independent counsel in such issuer’s home country certifying that the issuer’s practices are not prohibited by the home country’s laws. In addition, a foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission each such requirement that it does not follow and describe the home country practice followed by the issuer instead of any such requirement. As an Israeli company listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, we expect to follow home country practice with regard to, among other things, composition of the board of directors, director nomination procedure, compensation of officers, distribution of annual reports to shareholders and quorum at shareholders’ meetings. In addition, we expect to follow Israeli law instead of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules that require that we obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events, such as for the establishment or amendment of certain equity-based compensation plans, an issuance that will result in a change of control of the company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in the company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company. We may fail to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results and the market price of our ordinary shares. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes certain duties on us and our executives and directors. Our efforts to comply with the requirements of Section 404, which started in connection with our 2006 Annual Report on Form 20-F, have resulted in increased general and administrative expense and a diversion of management time and attention, and we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of resources. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to provide (i) management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and (ii) a statement by management that its independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on our internal control over financial reporting, in connection with the filing of the Annual Report on Form 20-F for each fiscal year. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess our internal control over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards under the rules. During the course of its testing, our management may identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies, which may not be remedied prior to the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities, and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price of our ordinary shares. 14 Risks Related to Our Location in Israel Political and economic conditions in Israel may limit our ability to produce and sell our products. This could have a material adverse effect on our operations and business. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel, where we also maintain our headquarters and most of our research and development and manufacturing facilities. Political, economic and security conditions in Israel directly influence us. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, Israel and its Arab neighbors have engaged in a number of armed conflicts. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Major hostilities between Israel and its neighbors may hinder Israel’s international trade and lead to economic downturn. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and business. There has been an increase in unrest and terrorist activity in Israel, which began in September 2000 and which has continued with varying levels of severity through 2008. The future effect of this deterioration and violence on the Israeli economy and our operations is unclear. The election of representatives of the Hamas movement to a majority of seats in the Palestinian Legislative Council in January 2006 resulted in an escalation in violence among Israel, the Palestinian Authority and other groups. In July 2006, extensive hostilities began along Israel’s northern border with Lebanon and to a lesser extent in the Gaza Strip. In January 2009, Israel attacked Hamas strongholds in the Gaza strip, in reaction to rockets that were fired from Gaza and which landed in Israel. Ongoing violence between Israel and the Palestinians as well as tension between Israel and the neighboring Syria and Lebanon may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, there are a number of countries, primarily in the Middle East, as well as Malaysia and Indonesia, that restrict business with Israel or Israeli companies, and we are precluded from marketing our products directly to these countries. Restrictive laws or policies directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses may have an adverse impact on our operations, our financial results or the expansion of our business. Our results of operations may be negatively affected by the obligation of our personnel to perform military service. Many of our employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israeli Defense Forces and may be called for active duty under emergency circumstances at any time. If a military conflict or war arises, these individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our key employees or a significant number of other employees due to military service. Any disruption in our operations could adversely affect our business. Because most of our revenues are generated in dollars or are linked to the dollar while a portion of our expenses are incurred in NIS, our results of operations would be adversely affected if inflation in Israel is not offset on a timely basis by a devaluation of the NIS against the dollar. Most of our revenues are in dollars or are linked to the dollar, while a portion of our expenses, principally salaries and related personnel expenses, are in NIS. Therefore, our NIS related costs, as expressed in U.S. dollars, are influenced by the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the NIS. During 2008, the NIS appreciated against the U.S. dollar, which resulted in a significant increase in the U.S. dollar cost of our NIS expenses. We are also exposed to the risk that the rate of inflation in Israel will exceed the rate of devaluation of the NIS in relation to the dollar or that the timing of this devaluation lags behind inflation in Israel. This would have the effect of increasing the dollar cost of our operations. In the past, the NIS has devalued against foreign currencies, generally reflecting inflation rate differentials. We cannot predict any future trends in the rate of inflation in Israel or the rate of devaluation or appreciation of the NIS against the dollar. If the dollar cost of our operations in Israel increases, our dollar-measured results of operations will be adversely affected. 15 You may not be able to enforce civil liabilities in the U.S. against our officers and directors. Most of our executive officers are non-residents of the U.S. A significant portion of our assets and the personal assets of most of our directors and executive officers are located outside the U.S. Therefore, it may be difficult to effect service of process upon any of these persons within the U.S. In addition, a judgment obtained in the U.S. against us, and most of our directors and executive officers, including but not limited to judgments based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be collectible in the U.S. Generally, it may also be difficult to bring an original action in an Israeli court to enforce judgments based upon the U.S. federal securities laws against us and most of our directors and executive officers. Subject to particular time limitations, executory judgments of a U.S. court for liquidated damages in civil matters may be enforced by an Israeli court, provided that: — the judgment was obtained after due process before a court of competent jurisdiction, that recognizes and enforces similar judgments of Israeli courts, and according to the rules of private international law currently prevailing in Israel; — adequate service of process was effected and the defendant had a reasonable opportunity to be heard; — the judgment and its enforcement are not contrary to the law, public policy, security or sovereignty of the State of Israel; — the judgment was not obtained by fraud and does not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties; — the judgment is no longer appealable; and — an action between the same parties in the same matter is not pending in any Israeli court at the time the lawsuit is instituted in the foreign court. If a foreign judgment is enforced by an Israeli court, it will be payable in Israeli currency. Additionally, it may be difficult for an investor or any other person or entity, to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws on the ground that Israel is not the most appropriate forum in which to bring such a claim. Even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law is applicable to the claim. Certain matters of procedures will also be governed by Israeli law. Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult a merger with, or an acquisition of us, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make undesirable a merger or an acquisition of all or a significant portion of our shares or assets. Israeli corporate law regulates acquisitions of shares through tender offers and mergers, requires special approvals for transactions involving significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. These provisions of Israeli law could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions may limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for our ordinary shares. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions undesirable to us or to some of our shareholders. 16 Under current Israeli law, we may not be able to enforce covenants not to compete and therefore may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of our former employees. We currently have non-competition clauses in the employment agreements of nearly all of our employees. The provisions of such clauses prohibit our employees, if they cease working for us, from directly competing with us or working for our competitors. Recently, Israeli courts have required employers, seeking to enforce non-compete undertakings against former employees, to demonstrate that the competitive activities of the former employee will cause harm to one of a limited number of material interests of the employer recognized by the courts (for example, the confidentiality of certain commercial information or a company’s intellectual property). In the event that any of our employees chooses to leave and work for one of our competitors, we may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise our former employee obtained from us, if we cannot demonstrate to the court that we would be harmed. 