ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company makes forward-looking statements in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in other oral or written communications. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to be materially different from those indicated (both favorably and unfavorably). These risks and uncertainties include (but are not limited to) the risks described below. The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Effective Management of Growth Strategy The Company’s growth strategy which includes brand extensions, square footage expansion, increasing the number of new stores, and increasing its direct-to-consumer business is dependent upon a number of factors, including: testing of new products, locating suitable store sites, negotiating favorable lease terms, having the infrastructure to address the increased number and size of its stores and the increased demands of a direct-to-consumer business, sourcing sufficient levels of inventory, hiring and training qualified management level and other associates, generating sufficient operating cash flows to fund the expansion plans, and integrating new stores and a larger direct-to-consumer business into its existing operations. The Company expects to continue to open new stores in future years, while also remodeling, relocating and expanding a portion of the existing store base, and closing underperforming stores. The planned openings and expansions could place increased demands on operational, managerial and administrative resources. These increased demands could cause the Company to operate the business less effectively, which in turn could cause deterioration in the financial performance of individual stores. In addition, to the extent that a number of new store openings are in existing markets, the Company may experience reduced net sales volumes in previously existing stores in those same markets. There can be no assurance that the Company will achieve its planned expansion or that such expansion will be profitable or that the Company will be able to manage its growth effectively. Effective Management of Store Performance The Company operated 660 Chico’s stores, 345 WH|BM stores and 71 Soma stores as of January 31, 2009, 66 of which opened within the last thirteen months. The results achieved by these stores may not be indicative of longer term performance or the potential market acceptance of stores in other locations. The Company cannot be assured that any new store that it opens will have similar operating results to those of prior stores. New stores commonly take up to two years to reach planned operating levels due to inefficiencies typically associated with new stores, including demands on operational, managerial and administrative resources. The failure of existing or new stores to perform as predicted could negatively impact the Company’s net sales and results of operations as well as result in impairment of long-lived assets at Company stores. 10 Table of Contents Strategic Development of New Concepts A significant portion of the Company’s longer term business strategy involves the strategic acquisition or the organic development and growth of new concepts and brand extensions within established brands. The Company’s ability to succeed in new concepts may require significant capital expenditures and management attention. Additionally, any new concept is subject to certain risks including customer acceptance, competition, product differentiation, challenges to economies of scale in merchandise sourcing and the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, including management and designers. The Company is currently expanding its Soma target customer audience and continues to invest in development of the brand through marketing and new product launches in order to create and maintain brand awareness, which is an integral factor in the success of the brand. Although the Company believes building brand awareness will attract new customers, the Company cannot provide assurance that the marketing activities and new product launches will result in increased sales or profitability in the future for the Soma brand. In addition, the Company believes that eventual profitability is dependent on the ability to open a critical mass of Soma stores (currently believed to be at least 100-125 stores) and the continued focus on improving the existing Soma operations and profitability. Thus, if the Company cannot successfully execute its growth strategies for development of the Soma brand, or any other new concepts or brand extensions for that matter, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted. General Economic Conditions The recent downturns in the overall economy and the volatility in the financial markets have adversely impacted the Company’s business and are likely to continue to impact sales volume and profitability levels of the Company. Certain economic conditions affect the level of consumer spending on merchandise offered by the Company, including, among others, rising unemployment levels, availability of consumer credit, deteriorating business conditions, inflation, interest rates, recessionary pressures, energy costs, taxation, uncertainty, and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. The recent disruptions in the overall economy and financial markets tend to reduce consumer confidence in the economy and negatively affect consumers’ spending patterns, which could be harmful to the Company’s financial position and results of operations, as was the case in fiscal 2008, and may cause the Company to decide to further decelerate the number and timing of new store openings, relocations, or expansions. Furthermore, declines in consumer spending patterns due to economic downturns may have a more negative effect on apparel retailers than some other retailers, particularly in the Company’s competitive space, and can negatively affect the Company’s net sales and profitability. There can be no assurances that government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets will restore consumer confidence, stabilize the markets or increase liquidity and the availability of credit. Fluctuations in Comparable Store Sales and Company Operating Results The Company’s comparable store sales and overall operating results have fluctuated in the past and are expected to continue to fluctuate in the future. A variety of factors affect comparable store sales and Company operating results, including changes in fashion trends, changes in the Company’s merchandise mix, customer acceptance of merchandise offerings, timing of catalog mailings, calendar shifts of holiday periods, actions by competitors, new store openings, weather conditions, and general economic conditions. Past comparable store sales or operating results are not an indicator of future results. In fiscal 2008, the Company experienced negative overall (and negative Chico’s and WH|BM brand) comparable store sales results, which had a significant negative effect on the Company’s operations and market price of the Company’s common stock. Similarly, the Company’s overall and individual brand comparable store sales results in the future, both positive and negative, are likely to have a significant impact on the Company’s operations and market price of the Company’s common stock. Gross Margin Impact of Mix of Sales The Company’s gross margins are impacted by the sales mix both from the perspective of merchandise sales mix within a particular brand and relative sales volumes of the different brands. Certain categories of apparel and accessories tend to generate somewhat higher margins than others within each brand. Thus, a shift in sales mix within a brand can often create a significant impact on the Company’s overall gross margins. On the other hand, the gross margins for the Chico’s brand have been higher than at the WH|BM and Soma brands. As sales at WH|BM 11 Table of Contents and Soma grow at a faster pace than at the Chico’s brand as planned, the Company’s overall gross margin margins may be negatively impacted which could in turn have an adverse effect on the Company’s overall operating margin and the market price of the Company’s common stock. Impact on Selling, General and Administrative Expenses from the Opening of Larger Stores The average size of the Chico’s and WH|BM stores has been increasing over the last several years. In particular, new Chico’s and WH|BM front-line stores were approximately 30% larger than the chain average in fiscal 2007. Although these stores are expected to produce incremental profit dollars that will be in the range of each respective chain’s average anticipated profits, they will likely increase selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales due to their larger size and anticipated initial lower sales per selling foot. Although it is anticipated that these stores will eventually achieve profit margins equal to more mature stores, these stores are likely, to put short-term pressure on the Company’s operating margin by increasing selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales. This could have an adverse effect on the Company’s operating margins and the market price of the Company’s common stock. Risks Associated with Direct-to-Consumer Sales The Company sells merchandise over the Internet through its websites, www.chicos.com, www.whitehouseblackmarket.com, and www.soma.com. Although the Company’s direct-to-consumer operations encompassed only 4.5% of the Company’s total sales for fiscal 2008, it is anticipated that the percentage will continue to grow and could grow faster than in the past, due to the Company’s concentrated efforts in the area. The Company’s direct-to-consumer operations are subject to numerous risks, including unanticipated operating problems, reliance on third party computer hardware and software providers, system failures and the need to invest in additional infrastructure. The direct-to-consumer operations also involve other risks that could have an impact on the Company’s results of operations including hiring, retention and training of personnel to conduct the Company’s direct-to-consumer operations, increased postage or printing costs, rapid technological change, liability for online content, credit card fraud, risks related to the possible failure of the computer systems that operate the website and its related support systems, including computer viruses, telecommunication failures and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. Given the Company’s business strategy to target sustained growth in its direct-to-consumer operations and thus increase sales penetration, supported by investment in infrastructure, the risks associated with direct-to-consumer operations are likely to be of greater significance in fiscal 2009 and future years than in prior years. There can be no assurance that the Company’s direct-to-consumer operations will be able to achieve targeted sales and profitability growth or even remain at their current level. Privacy and Information Security The Company’s use of individually identifiable data is regulated at the international, federal and state levels. Privacy and information security laws and regulation changes, and compliance with them may result in cost increases due to necessary system changes and the development of new administrative processes. If the Company or its associates fail to comply with these laws and regulations or experience a data security breach, the Company’s reputation could be damaged, possibly resulting in lost future business, and it could be subjected to fines, penalties, orders and other legal risk as a result of non-compliance. Dependence on Single Distribution Location The Company’s distribution functions for all of its stores and for its direct-to-consumer sales are handled from two separate facilities located beside each other in Winder, Georgia. Any significant interruption in the operation of either of these distribution facilities due to natural disasters, accidents, system failures or other unforeseen causes could delay or impair the Company’s ability to distribute merchandise to its stores and/or fulfill direct-to-consumer orders, which could cause sales to decline. The Company regularly reviews and is developing its options to mitigate this risk including contingency plans and back-up relationships with outside providers of distribution services. Success and Location of Shopping Centers In order to generate customer traffic, the Company locates many of its stores in prominent locations within shopping centers that have been or are expected to be successful. The Company cannot control the development of new shopping centers, the availability or cost of appropriate locations within existing or new shopping centers, or 12 Table of Contents the success of individual shopping centers. Furthermore, factors beyond the Company’s control impact shopping center traffic, such as general economic conditions, weather conditions, consumer acceptance of new or existing shopping centers, regional demographic shifts, and consumer spending levels. A slowdown in the U.S. economy, as has been seen in fiscal 2008 and so far in fiscal 2009, tends to negatively affect consumer spending and reduce shopping center traffic. The Company’s sales are partly dependent on a high volume of shopping center traffic and any decline in such shopping center traffic, whether because of the slowdown in the economy, a falloff in the popularity of shopping centers among our target customers, or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Seasonal Fluctuations The nature of the Company’s business is comprised of two distinct selling seasons; spring and fall. During the peaks of these seasons, increased marketing, temporary personnel, and other expenses may be incurred to prepare and compete for the anticipated stronger consumer spending. Lower than expected sales or profit margins during these periods, as was experienced in fiscal 2008, could materially affect the financial condition and results of operations. Merchandising/Fashion Sensitivity The Company’s success is principally dependent upon its ability to gauge the fashion tastes of its customers and to provide merchandise that satisfies customer demand in a timely manner. The Company’s failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately and in a timely manner to changes in fashion trends or demands, could lead to lower sales, excess inventories and more frequent markdowns, which could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business. Misjudgments or unanticipated fashion changes could also have a material adverse impact on the Company’s image with its customers. There can be no assurance that the Company’s new products will be met with the same level of acceptance as in the past or that the failure of any new products will not have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Maintaining Proper Inventory Levels The Company maintains an inventory of merchandise in its stores and distribution center, particularly of selected products that the Company anticipates will be in high demand. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs or the sale of excess inventory at discounted or closeout prices, such as occurred in fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2008. These events could significantly harm the Company’s operating results and impair the image of one or more of the Company’s brands. Conversely, if the Company underestimates consumer demand for its merchandise, particularly higher volume styles, or if the Company’s manufacturers fail to supply quality products in a timely manner, the Company may experience inventory shortages, which might result in missed sales, negatively impact customer relationships, diminish brand loyalty and result in lost revenues, any of which could harm the Company’s business. Price, Availability and Quality of its Offerings Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of fabrics and other raw materials used in producing the Company’s products could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s cost of goods or its ability to meet customer demands. The price and availability of such fabrics, other raw materials and labor may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors, including natural resources, increased freight costs, increased labor costs, weather conditions and currency fluctuations. In the future, the Company may not be able to pass all or a portion of such higher fabric, other raw materials or labor prices on to its customers. Competition The retail apparel and accessory industry is highly competitive. The Company competes with national, international and local department stores, specialty and discount store chains, independent retail stores and Internet and catalog businesses that market similar lines of merchandise. The Company’s successful performance in recent years has increased the amount of imitation by other retailers, often at lower price points. Such imitation has made and will continue to make the retail environment in which the Company operates more competitive. Many competitors are significantly larger and have greater financial, marketing and other resources and enjoy greater national, regional and local name recognition than the Company. Depth of selection in sizes, colors and styles of 13 Table of Contents merchandise, merchandise procurement and pricing, the ability to anticipate fashion trends and consumer preferences, inventory control, reputation, quality of merchandise, store design and location, brand recognition and customer service are all important factors in competing successfully in the retail industry. Vendor Relationships The Company has no material long-term or exclusive contracts with any apparel or accessory manufacturer or supplier. The business depends on its network of suppliers and on continued good relations with its vendor base. A key vendor may become unable to supply our merchandising needs due to payment terms, cost of manufacturing, adequacy of manufacturing capacity, quality control, and timeliness of delivery. If the Company was unexpectedly required to change vendors or if a key vendor was unable to supply acceptable merchandise in sufficient quantities on acceptable terms, the Company could experience a significant disruption in the supply of merchandise. The Company could also experience operational difficulties with its manufacturers, such as reductions in the availability of production capacity, errors in complying with merchandise specifications, insufficient quality control, shortages of fabrics or other raw materials, failures to meet production deadlines or increases in manufacturing costs. Approximately 14% of total purchases in fiscal 2008 were made from one vendor compared to approximately 7.5% for the same vendor in fiscal 2007. The Company cannot guarantee that this relationship will be maintained in the future or that the vendor will continue to be available to manufacture merchandise. A significant disruption in the supply of merchandise from this, or any other key vendor, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s operations. Working Capital Requirements of Third-Party Manufacturers The Company relies on independent manufacturers for producing its merchandise. Many of these manufacturers rely on working capital financing to finance their operations. As a result of recent credit market events, lenders have over the last several months generally tightened credit standards and terms. To the extent any of the Company’s manufacturers are unable to obtain adequate credit or their borrowing costs increase, the Company may experience delays in obtaining merchandise, the manufacturers may increase their prices or they may modify payment terms in a manner that is unfavorable to the Company. Any of the aforementioned could adversely affect the Company’s net sales or gross margin, which could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Reliance on Foreign Sources of Production Although the Company has certain portions of its clothing and accessories produced within the United States, a majority of the Company’s clothing and accessories are still produced outside the United States and the percentage has been growing and this trend may continue. As a result, the Company’s business remains subject to the various risks of doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad, such as: (i) political instability; (ii) imposition of new legislation relating to import quotas that may limit the quantity of goods that may be imported into the United States from countries in which the Company does business; (iii) imposition of new or increased duties, taxes, and other charges on imports; (iv) foreign exchange rate challenges and pressures presented by implementation of U.S. monetary policy; (v) local business practice and political issues, including issues relating to compliance with the Company’s Terms of Commitment to Ethical Sourcing and domestic or international labor standards; (vi) transportation disruptions, and (vii) seizure or detention of goods by Customs authorities. The Company cannot predict whether any of the foreign countries in which its clothing and accessories are currently produced or any of the countries in which the Company’s clothing and accessories may be produced in the future will be subject to import restrictions by the United States government, including the likelihood, type or effect of any trade retaliation. Trade restrictions, including increased tariffs or more restrictive quotas, or both, applicable to apparel items could affect the importation of apparel generally and, in that event, could increase the cost, or reduce the supply, of apparel available to the Company and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s merchandise flow and cost may also be adversely affected by political instability in any of the countries in which its goods are produced and continuing adverse changes in foreign exchange rates. In addition, the laws and customs protecting intellectual property rights in many foreign countries can be substantially different and potentially less protective of intellectual property than those in the United States. The 14 Table of Contents Company has taken numerous steps to protect its intellectual property overseas, but cannot guarantee that such rights are not infringed. The intentional or unintentional infringement on the Company’s intellectual property rights by one of its vendors or any other person or entity, could diminish the uniqueness of the Company’s products, tarnish the Company’s trademarks, or damage the Company’s reputation. Vendor’s Compliance with Labor Practices Requirements Although the Company has adopted its Terms of Commitment to Ethical Sourcing and seeks to be diligent in its monitoring of compliance with these terms, the Company does not have absolute control over the ultimate actions or labor practices of its independent vendors. The violation of labor or other laws by one of its key independent vendors or the divergence of an independent vendor’s labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical by the Company could interrupt or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished merchandise to the Company or damage the Company’s reputation. Any of these, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and its stock price. Changes in Accounting Principles, Interpretations and Practices Financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. These accounting principles can be complex for certain aspects of the Company’s business and may involve subjective judgments. A change from current accounting standards could have a significant effect on the Company’s results of operations. Internal Control over Financial Reporting The Company’s system of internal controls over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance that the objectives of an effective financial reporting control system are met. However, any system of internal controls is subject to inherent limitations and the design of controls will not provide absolute assurance that all objectives will be met. This includes the possibility that controls may be inappropriately circumvented or overridden, that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that misstatements due to errors or fraud may not be prevented or detected. Any failure in the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting could have a material effect on financial reporting or cause the Company to fail to meet reporting obligations, and could negatively impact investor perceptions. Adverse Outcomes of Litigation Matters The Company is involved from time to time in litigation and other claims against its business. These issues arise primarily in the ordinary course of business but could raise complex, factual and legal issues, which are subject to multiple risks and uncertainties and could require significant management time. The Company believes that the Company’s current litigation issues will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or financial condition. However, the Company’s assessment of current litigation could change in light of the discovery of facts with respect to legal actions pending against the Company not presently known to the Company or determinations by judges, juries or other finders of fact which do not accord with the Company’s evaluation of the possible liability or outcome of such litigation and additional litigation that is not currently pending could have a more significant impact on the Company and its operations. Headquarters Expansion During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company completed the purchase of approximately 22 acres of property adjacent to the Company’s current headquarters site in Fort Myers, Florida to serve as the base for expansion of the Company’s corporate headquarters operations. The Company anticipates that its cash and marketable securities on hand and cash from operations will be adequate to cover the necessary costs of construction for its headquarters expansion. However, in the event that such cash and marketable securities on hand and cash from operations is not sufficient to meet the Company’s capital expenditures needs, the Company may need to draw on its line of credit or seek other financing in order to fund the costs of expansion of the headquarters campus or other capital expenditures. In addition, such activities could potentially result in temporary disruptions of operations or a diversion of management’s attention and resources. 15 Table of Contents Reliance on Key Personnel The Company’s success and ability to properly manage its growth depends to a significant extent both upon the performance of its current executive and senior management team and its ability to attract, hire, motivate, and retain additional qualified management personnel in the future. The Company’s inability to recruit and retain such additional personnel, or the loss of the services of any of its executive officers, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Effects of War, Terrorism or Other Catastrophes In the event of war, acts of terrorism or any further threat of terrorist attacks, customer traffic in shopping centers and consumer spending could significantly decrease. In addition, local authorities or shopping center management could close in response to any immediate security concern or weather catastrophe such as a hurricane or tornado. Similarly, war, acts of terrorism, threats of terrorist attacks, or a weather catastrophe could severely and adversely affect the Company’s headquarters or distribution center that, in turn, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business. Any such event could result in decreased sales that would have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized, but rather are tested for impairment annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. In addition to the annual review, management uses certain indicators to evaluate whether the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets may not be recoverable, such as (i) the Company’s market capitalization in relation to the book value of its stockholders’ equity, (ii) current-period operating or cash flow declines combined with a history of operating cash flow declines or a forecast that demonstrates continuing declines in cash flow or inability to improve operations to forecasted levels, or (iii) a significant adverse change in business climate that could affect the value of reporting units. The significant estimates and assumptions used by management in assessing the recoverability of goodwill and other intangible assets include estimated future cash flows, the discount rate, and other factors. Any changes in these estimates or assumptions could result in an impairment charge. The estimates of future cash flows, based on reasonable and supportable assumptions and projections, require management’s subjective judgment. Depending on the assumptions and estimates used, the estimated future cash flows projected in the evaluations of long-lived assets can vary within a range of outcomes. Nevertheless, the unprecedented credit crisis including extreme volatility in the capital markets and the global economic downturn could result in changes to expectations of future cash flows and key valuation assumptions and estimates. These events could result in changes to management’s estimates of the fair value of the Company’s reporting units and may result in material impairments in the future. If the Company determines in the future that impairments have occurred, the Company would be required to write off the impaired portion of either 1) goodwill, 2) the WH|BM trademark asset or 3) the Minnesota territorial rights, which could substantially and negatively impact the Company’s results of operations. Reliance on Information Technology The Company relies on various information systems to manage its operations and regularly makes investments to upgrade, enhance or replace such systems. The Company is currently implementing a new enterprise resource planning system (ERP) through SAP, a third party vendor, to assist in managing its retail stores. This fully integrated system is expected to support and coordinate all aspects of product development, merchandising, finance and accounting and to be fully scalable to accommodate rapid growth. Any delays or difficulties in transitioning or in integrating SAP with the Company’s current systems, or any other disruptions affecting the Company’s information systems, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business. Brand Reputation The Company’s ability to protect its brands’ reputation is an integral part of its general success strategy. The Chico’s image of high quality and unique styles as well as the WH|BM image of classic and timeless designs is critical to the overall value of the brands. Maintaining and positioning these brands is an on-going investment for the Company in which it is likely continued investment in customer research and promotional events will be essential. Although the Company believes product development investments will help attract new customers, it cannot 16 Table of Contents provide assurance that they will result in increased revenue and profitability. Additionally, if the Company fails to maintain high standards for merchandise quality and integrity, such failures could jeopardize the brands’ reputation and have a negative effect on earnings. Damage to the Company’s reputation as a whole could also cause a loss of consumer and investor confidence and could have a material effect on the business. Protection of Intellectual Property The Company believes that its trademarks, copyrights, and other intellectual and proprietary rights are important to its success. Even though the Company takes action to establish, register and protect its trademarks, copyrights, and other intellectual and proprietary rights, there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful or that others will not imitate the Company’s products or infringe upon the Company’s intellectual property rights. In addition, there can be no assurance that others will not resist or seek to block the sale of the Company’s products as infringements of their trademarks, copyrights, or other proprietary rights. If the Company is required to stop using any of its registered or non-registered trademarks or copyrights, the Company’s sales could decline and its business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Volatility of Stock Price The market price of the Company’s common stock has fluctuated substantially in the past and there can be no assurance that the market price of the common stock will not continue to fluctuate significantly. Future announcements or management discussions concerning the Company or its competitors, sales and profitability results, quarterly variations in operating results or comparable store net sales, changes in earnings estimates by analysts or changes in accounting policies, among other factors, could cause the market price of the common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, stock markets, in general, have experienced extreme price and volume volatility in recent years. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many public companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. List Not Exclusive The foregoing list of risk factors is not exhaustive. There can be no assurance that the Company has correctly identified and appropriately assessed all factors affecting its business operations or that the publicly available and other information with respect to these matters is complete and correct. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that it currently believes to be immaterial also may adversely impact the business. Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have material adverse effects on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Like other seasoned issuers, the Company, from time to time, receives written comments from the staff of the SEC regarding the Company’s periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. There are no comments that the Company received not less than 180 days before the end of its 2008 fiscal year to which this Form 10-K relates that remain unresolved. 17 Table of Contents 