D. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks and the information about our business described below, together with all the other information included in this annual report. You should not interpret the order in which these considerations are presented as an indication of their relative importance to you. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In such an instance, the trading price of our ADSs and Ordinary Shares could decline. We have a history of losses, and we may not be able to attain profitability in the foreseeable future. We have not been profitable in four of the last five fiscal years. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2004 and 2005, we reported profits/(losses) under U.K. GAAP of approximately $3.2 million and $(20.5) million respectively. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008 we reported losses under IFRS of approximately $26.8 million, $37.8 million and $20.0 million respectively. Unless and until marketing approval is obtained from either the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, which we refer to as the FDA, or European Medicines Evaluation Agency, which we refer to as the EMEA, for any of our products, or we are otherwise able to acquire rights to products that have received regulatory approval or are at an advanced stage of development and can be readily commercialized, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues in future periods to enable us to attain profitability. We acquired Amarin Neuroscience (formerly Laxdale Limited) on October 8, 2004 and Ester Neurosciences Limited on December 5, 2007. We continue to have limited operations, assets and financial resources. We currently have no marketable products or other source of revenues other than the Multicell out-licensing contract described herein. All of our current products are in the development stage. The development of pharmaceutical products is a capital intensive business. Therefore, we expect to incur expenses without corresponding revenues at 6 least until we are at an advanced stage of development or are able to obtain regulatory approval and sell our future products in significant quantities. This may result in net operating losses until we can generate an acceptable level of revenues, which we may not be able to attain. Further, even if we do achieve operating revenues, there can be no assurance that such revenues will be sufficient to fund continuing operations. Therefore, we cannot predict with certainty whether we will ever be able to achieve profitability. In addition to advancing our existing development pipeline, we may also acquire rights to additional products. However, we may not be successful in doing so. We may need to raise additional capital before we can acquire any products. There is also a risk that any of our development stage products we may acquire will not be approved by the FDA or regulatory authorities in other countries on a timely basis or at all. The inability to obtain such approvals would adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. The likelihood of success of our business plan must be considered in light of the problems, expenses, difficulties, complications and delays frequently encountered in connection with developing and expanding early stage businesses and the regulatory and competitive environment in which we operate. The continued negative economic conditions would likely negatively impact Amarin’s ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms. Unfavorable economic conditions can impact Amarin’s ability to obtain finance on acceptable terms. While currently these conditions have not impaired our ability to access credit markets and finance our operations, there can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in financial markets and confidence in major economies. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions in the US and other countries. Our historical financial results do not form an accurate basis for assessing our current business. As a consequence of divestitures in 2004 and our acquisition of Amarin Neuroscience in October 2004 and Ester Neurosciences Limited in December 2007, our historical financial results do not form an accurate basis upon which investors should base an assessment of our business and prospects. We are now focused on the research, development and commercialization of novel drugs for cardiovascular disease. Accordingly, our historical financial results reflect a substantially different business from that currently being conducted. We may have to issue additional equity, leading to shareholder dilution. We are committed to issue equity to the former shareholders of Amarin Neuroscience upon the successful achievement of specified milestones for the AMR101 development program (subject to such shareholders’ right to choose cash payment in lieu of equity). Pursuant to the Amarin Neuroscience share purchase agreement, further success-related milestones will be payable as follows: Upon receipt of marketing approval in the United States and Europe for the first indication of any product containing Amarin Neuroscience intellectual property as secured in the 2004 Laxdale acquisition, we must make an aggregate stock or cash payment (at the sole option of each of the sellers) of GBP£7.5 million for each of the two potential market approvals (i.e., GBP£15.0 million maximum). In addition, upon receipt of a marketing approval in the United States and Europe for any other product using Amarin Neuroscience intellectual property as secured in the 2004 Laxdale acquisition or for a different indication of a previously approved product, we must make an aggregate stock or cash payment (at the sole option of each of the sellers) of GBP£5.0 million for each of the two potential market approvals (i.e., GBP£10.0 million maximum). The exchange rate as of October 20, 2009 was approximately $1.6402 per GBP£. In June 2009, Amarin announced that it had amended the Ester Neurosciences Limited (“Ester”) acquisition agreement entered into in December 2007. The amendments, which reflect Amarin’s intention to seek a partner for EN101, provide for the release of Amarin from research and development diligence obligations contained in the original agreement, with remaining contingent milestones only being payable from fees and milestones received from any future partners. As part of the amendment and waiver agreement, Amarin issued 1,315,789 ordinary shares to the former Ester shareholders 7 On October 13, 2009, Amarin announced it had entered into definitive agreements with several existing and new institutional and accredited investors for a private placement of units for $70 million, consisting of $66.4 million in cash proceeds and $3.6 million from the conversion of convertible bridge notes. On closing of the private placement, in consideration for the $66.4 million received in cash, Amarin issued 66.4 million units. Each unit had a purchase price of $1.00 and consisted of one American Depositary Share (“ADS”) and a warrant to purchase 0.50 of an ADS. The warrants will have a five year term and an exercise price of $1.50 per ADS. In consideration for the conversion of $3.6 million of convertible bridge notes, Amarin issued 4.0 million units. In accordance with the terms of the conversion of the bridge notes, each unit had a purchase price of $0.90 and consisted of one ADS and a warrant to purchase 0.50 of an ADS. The warrants will also have a five year term and an exercise price of $1.50 per ADS. In May 2009, Amarin announced that it entered into definitive agreements for a private placement of convertible bridge loan notes (“Initial Bridge Financing”) in the amount of $2.6 million with certain existing investors in the Company, including a number of current directors of the Company. In July 2009, $0.1 million of the Bridge Financing was repaid. In August 2009, the date of maturity on the convertible loans was extended to September 30, 2009. In August 2009, Amarin announced that it had entered into definitive agreements for a private placement of additional convertible bridge loan notes (“Additional Bridge Financing”) in the amount of $3.0 million with certain existing investors in the Company, including a number of current directors of the Company. The Initial Bridge Financing and Additional Bridge Financing consist of convertible notes and warrants. The aggregate convertible notes are in the principal amount of $5.5 million, were to mature on September 30, 2009 and pay interest at the rate of 8% per annum. In September 2009, the date of maturity was extended to October 16, 2009. On October 16, 2009, as described above, the holders of $3.6 million convertible bridge loan notes converted their principal into units and the accrued interest was repaid in cash. As a result, the Company issued 3,999,996 Ordinary Shares of £0.50 and warrants to purchase 1,999,996 shares with an exercise price of $1.50. On October 16, 2009, the holders of the remaining $1.9 million convertible bridge loan notes elected to have their principal and accrued interest repaid in cash. On July 31, 2009, the Company issued warrants to purchase 3,111,105 shares with an exercise price of $1.00. These warrants were issued to the holders of the convertible bridge loan notes in consideration for their participation in the Bridge Financing. They are in addition to the warrants that were issued on conversion of the convertible bridge loan notes described above. In December 2007, we issued $2.75 million in aggregate principal amount of three-year convertible debt. This debt was repaid in full on May 29, 2008. These debenture holders received five-year warrants to purchase 0.23 million ADSs at an exercise price of $4.80. If, at any time prior to December 6, 2009, the Company issues Ordinary Shares, securities convertible into ADSs or Ordinary Shares, warrants to purchase ADSs or Ordinary Shares or options to purchase any of the aforementioned warrants at a price that is less than, or converts at a price that is less than, $3.66 (“Down-round Price”), then the exercise price shall be adjusted to equal 130% of the Down-round Price. As at October 20, 2009 we had 41,060,624 warrants outstanding with a weighted average exercise price of $1.75 per share. As at October 20, 2009, we also had outstanding employee options to purchase 2,865,183 Ordinary Shares at an average exercise price of $5.12 per share. Additionally, in pursuing our growth strategy, we may either need to issue new equity as consideration for the acquisition of products, or to otherwise raise additional capital, in which case equity, debt convertible into equity or debt instruments may be issued. The creation of new shares may lead to dilution of the value of the shares held by our current shareholder base. 8 If we cannot find additional capital resources, we will have difficulty in operating as a going concern and growing our business. At December 31, 2008, we had a cash balance of approximately $14.2 million. On October 13, 2009, Amarin announced it had entered into definitive agreements with several existing and new institutional and accredited investors for a private placement of units for $70 million, consisting of $66.4 million in cash proceeds and $3.6 million from the conversion of convertible bridge notes. On closing of the private placement, in consideration for the $66.4 million received in cash, Amarin issued 66.4 million units. Each unit had a purchase price of $1.00 and consisted of one American Depositary Share (“ADS”) and a warrant to purchase 0.50 of an ADS. The warrants will have a five year term and an exercise price of $1.50 per ADS. In consideration for the conversion of $3.6 million of convertible bridge notes, Amarin issued 4.0 million units. In accordance with the terms of the conversion of the bridge notes, each unit had a purchase price of $0.90 and consisted of one ADS and a warrant to purchase 0.50 of an ADS. The warrants will also have a five year term and an exercise price of $1.50 per ADS. Based upon current business activities, we forecast having sufficient cash to fund operations for at least a period of 12 months from October 22, 2009. We may also require further funds in the future to implement our long-term growth strategy recruiting clinical, regulatory and other personnel, and to grow our business. Our ability to execute our business strategy and sustain our infrastructure at our current level will be impacted by whether or not we have sufficient funds. Depending on market conditions and our ability to maintain financial stability, we may not have access to additional funds on reasonable terms or at all. Any inability to obtain additional funds when needed would have a material adverse effect on our business and on our ability to operate on an ongoing basis. We may be dependent upon the success of a limited range of products. If development efforts for our products are not successful for any indications or if they are not approved by the FDA, or if adequate demand for our products is not generated, our business will be materially and adversely affected. Although we intend to bring additional products forward from our research and development efforts, even if we are successful in doing so, the range of products we will be able to commercialize may be limited. This could restrict our ability to respond to adverse business conditions. If we are not successful in developing any future product or products, or if there is not adequate demand for any such products or the market for such product develops less rapidly than we anticipate, we may not have the ability to shift our resources to the development of alternative products. As a result, the limited range of products we intend to develop could constrain our ability to generate revenues and achieve profitability. Our ability to generate revenues depends on obtaining regulatory approvals for our products. In order to successfully commercialize a product, we or our potential partners will be required to conduct all tests and clinical trials needed in order to meet regulatory requirements, to obtain applicable regulatory approvals, and to prosecute patent applications. The costs of developing and obtaining regulatory approvals for pharmaceutical products can be substantial. Our ability to commercialize any of our products in development is dependent upon the success of development efforts in clinical studies. If these clinical trials fail to produce satisfactory results, or if we are unable to maintain the financial and operational capability to complete these development efforts, we may be unable to generate revenues. Even if we obtain regulatory approvals, the timing or scope of any approvals may prohibit or reduce our ability to commercialize products successfully. For example, if the approval process takes too long, we may miss market opportunities and give other companies the ability to develop competing products or establish market dominance. Additionally, the terms of any approvals may not have the scope or breadth needed for us to commercialize products successfully. We may not be successful in developing or marketing future products if we cannot meet extensive regulatory requirements of the FDA and other regulatory agencies for quality, safety and efficacy. The success of our research and development efforts is dependent in part upon the ability of the Group, its contractors or potential partners, and its products to meet and to continue to meet regulatory requirements in the jurisdictions where we or potential partners ultimately intend to sell such products. The development, manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical products are subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the United States, the European Union, Japan and elsewhere. In the United States, the FDA generally requires pre-clinical testing and clinical trials of each drug to establish its safety and efficacy and extensive pharmaceutical 9 development to ensure its quality before its introduction into the market. Regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions impose similar requirements. Amarin will be commencing two phase III clinical trials with AMR101 in lowering triglycerides and continues its ongoing studies and plans for future toxicology, pharmacology and metabolism studies of AMR101. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals is lengthy and expensive and the issuance of such approvals is uncertain. The commencement and rate of completion of clinical trials and the timing of obtaining marketing approval from regulatory authorities may be delayed by many factors, including: · the inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of qualified materials under current good manufacturing practices for use in clinical trials; · slower than expected rates of patient recruitment; · the inability to observe patients adequately after treatment; · changes in regulatory requirements for clinical or preclinical studies; · the lack of effectiveness during clinical trials; · unforeseen safety issues emerge in clinical or preclinical studies; · delay, suspension, or termination of a trial by the institutional review board responsible for overseeing the study at a particular study site; · unanticipated changes to the requirements imposed by regulatory authorities on the extent, nature or timing of studies to be conducted on quality, safety and efficacy; and · government or regulatory delays or “clinical holds” requiring suspension or termination of a trial. Even if we obtain positive results from early stage pre-clinical or clinical trials, we may not achieve the same success in future trials. Clinical trials that we or potential partners conduct may not provide sufficient safety and effectiveness data to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for product candidates. The failure of clinical trials to demonstrate safety and effectiveness for our desired indications could harm the development of that product candidate as well as other product candidates, and our business and results of operations would suffer. Any approvals that are obtained may be limited in scope, or may be accompanied by burdensome post-approval study or other requirements. This could adversely affect our ability to earn revenues from the sale of such products. Even in circumstances where products are approved by a regulatory body for sale, the regulatory or legal requirements may change over time, or new safety or efficacy information may be identified concerning a product, which may lead to the withdrawal of a product from the market. Additionally, even after approval, a marketed drug and its manufacturer are subject to continual review. The discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or manufacturer may result in restrictions on that product or manufacturer, including withdrawal of the product from the market, which would have a negative impact on our potential revenue stream. After approval, our products will be subject to extensive government regulation. Once a product is approved, numerous post-approval requirements apply. Among other things, the holder of an approved New Drug Application (“NDA”) or other license is subject to periodic and other monitoring and reporting obligations enforced by the FDA and other regulatory bodies, including obligations to monitor and report adverse events and instances of the failure of a product to meet the specifications in the approved application. Application holders must also submit advertising and other promotional material to regulatory authorities and report on ongoing clinical trials. With respect to sales and marketing activities by our partners, advertising and promotional materials must comply with FDA rules in addition to other potentially applicable federal and local laws in the United States and in other countries. In the United States, the distribution of product samples to physicians must comply with the requirements of the U.S. Prescription Drug Marketing Act. Manufacturing facilities remain subject to FDA inspection and must continue to adhere to the FDA’s current good manufacturing practice requirements. Application holders must obtain FDA approval for product and manufactu- 10 ing changes, depending on the nature of the change. Sales, marketing, and scientific/educational grant programs must also comply with the U.S. Medicare-Medicaid Anti-Fraud and Abuse Act, as amended, the U.S. False Claims Act, as amended and similar state laws. Pricing and rebate programs must comply with the U.S. Medicaid rebate requirements of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990, as amended. If products are made available to authorized users of the U.S. Federal Supply Schedule of the General Services Administration, additional laws and requirements apply. All of these activities are also potentially subject to U.S. federal and state consumer protection and unfair competition laws. Similar requirements exist in all of these areas in other countries. Depending on the circumstances, failure to meet these post-approval requirements can result in criminal prosecution, fines or other penalties, injunctions, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, denial or withdrawal of pre-marketing product approvals, or refusal to allow us to enter into supply contracts, including government contracts. In addition, even if we or our potential partners comply with FDA and other requirements, new information regarding the safety or effectiveness of a product could lead the FDA to modify or withdraw a product approval. Adverse regulatory action, whether pre- or post-approval, can potentially lead to product liability claims and increase our product liability exposure. We or our potential partners must also compete against other products in qualifying for reimbursement under applicable third party payment and insurance programs. Our future products may not be able to compete effectively against those of our competitors. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. If we are successful in completing the development of any of our products, we may face competition to the extent other pharmaceutical companies have on the market or are able to develop products for the treatment of similar indications. Potential competitors in this market include companies with greater resources and name recognition than us. Furthermore, to the extent we are able to acquire or develop additional marketable products in the future such products will compete with a variety of other products within the United States or elsewhere, possibly including established drugs and major brand names. Competitive factors, including generic competition, could force us to lower prices or could result in reduced sales. In addition, new products developed by others could emerge as competitors to our future products. Products based on new technologies or new drugs could render our products obsolete or uneconomical. Our potential competitors both in the United States and Europe include large, well-established pharmaceutical companies, specialty pharmaceutical sales and marketing companies, and specialized cardiovascular and neurology companies. In addition, we may compete with universities and other institutions involved in the development of technologies and products that may compete with ours. Many of our competitors will likely have greater resources than us, including financial, product development, marketing, personnel and other resources. Should a competing product obtain marketing approval prior to any of our products, this would significantly erode the projected revenue streams for our product. The success of our future products will also depend in large part on the willingness of physicians to prescribe these products to their patients. Our future products may compete against products that have achieved broad recognition and acceptance among medical professionals. In order to achieve an acceptable level of subscriptions for our future products, we must be able to meet the needs of both the medical community and end users with respect to cost, efficacy and other factors. Our supply of products for clinical trials and ultimately for commercial supply is dependent upon relationships with manufacturers and key suppliers. We have no in-house manufacturing capacity and, to the extent we are successful in completing the development of our products and/or acquiring or developing other marketable products in the future, we will be obliged to rely on contract manufacturers to produce our products. We cannot assure you that we will successfully manufacture any product we may develop, either independently or under manufacturing arrangements, if any, with third party manufacturers. Moreover, if any manufacturer should cease doing business with us or experience delays, shortages of supply or excessive demands on their capacity, we may not be able to obtain adequate quantities of product in a timely manner, or at all. Manufacturers are required to comply with current NDA commitments and good manufacturing practices requirements enforced by the FDA, and similar requirements of other countries. The failure by a manufacturer to comply with these requirements could affect its ability to provide us with product. 11 Any manufacturing problem or the loss of a contract manufacturer could be disruptive to our operations and result in lost sales. Additionally, we will be reliant on third parties to supply the raw materials needed to manufacture our potential products. Any reliance on suppliers may involve several risks, including a potential inability to obtain critical materials and reduced control over production costs, delivery schedules, reliability and quality. Any unanticipated disruption to future contract manufacture caused by problems at suppliers could delay shipment of products, increase our cost of goods sold and result in lost sales. In the past and currently, we purchase all API for AMR101from a single supplier with a single manufacturing facility. While we have contractual freedom to source API elsewhere, there is no guarantee we will either be successful in identifying alternative supplier(s) or that such future supplier(s) will have the manufacturing capacity to meet future requirements. Our current supplier currently does not have sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet expected future commercial supply requirements and we cannot assure you that it or an alternative supplier will have the necessary capacity to meet our requirements. We may not be able to grow our business unless we can acquire or in-license new products. During recent years, we pursued a strategy of product acquisitions and in-licensing in order to supplement our own research and development activity. Our success in this regard will be dependent on our ability to identify other companies that are willing to sell or license product lines to us. We will be competing for these products with other parties, many of whom have substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources than we do. Even if suitable products are available, depending on competitive conditions we may not be able to acquire rights to additional products on acceptable terms, or at all. Our potential inability to acquire additional products or successfully introduce new products could have a material adverse effect on our business. In order to commercialize our future products, we may need to find a collaborative partner to help market and sell our products. Our strategy for commercializing currently anticipates that we will enter into collaborative arrangements with one or more pharmaceutical companies that have product development resources and expertise, established distribution systems and direct sales forces to successfully market our products. If so, we will be reliant on one or more of these strategic partners to generate revenue on our behalf. We may not be successful in finding a collaborative partner to help market and sell our products, or may be delayed in doing so, in which case we would not receive revenue or royalties on the timeframe and to the extent that we currently anticipate. The carrying value of our EN101 intangible asset is dependent on the success or failure of partnering activities and future development work. At December 31, 2008, our EN101 intangible asset had a carrying value of $19.9 million. If our efforts to find a development partner or licensee for EN101 are unsuccessful or if future development work is unsuccessful, the valuation of our EN101 intangible asset would likely be impaired. We are in discussions with the licensor of EN101 to amend certain aspects of our license. If these discussions are unsuccessful our partnering efforts could be adversely impacted.The planned expansion of our business may strain our resources. We currently operate with limited resources, the addition of any new products could require a significant expansion of our operations, including the recruitment, hiring and training of additional personnel, particularly those with a clinical or regulatory background. Any failure to recruit necessary personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, the expansion of our operations and work force could create a strain on our financial and management resources and it may require us to add management personnel. We may incur potential liabilities relating to discontinued operations or products. In October 2003, we sold Gacell Holdings AB, the Swedish holding company of Amarin Development AB, which we refer to as ADAB, our Swedish drug development subsidiary, to Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. In February 2004, we sold our U.S. subsidiary, Amarin Pharmaceuticals Inc., and certain assets, to Valeant. In connection with these transactions, we provided a number of representations and warranties to Watson and Valeant regarding the respective businesses sold to them, and other matters, and we undertook to indemnify Watson and Valeant under certain circumstances for breaches of such representations and warranties. We are not aware of any circumstances which could reasonably be expected to give rise to an indemnification obligation under our agreements with either Watson or Valeant. However, we cannot predict whether matters may arise in the future which were not known to us and which, under the terms of the relevant agreements, could give rise to a claim against us. 12 We will be dependent on patents, proprietary rights and confidentiality. Because of the significant time and expense involved in developing new products and obtaining regulatory approvals, it is very important to obtain patent and trade secret protection for new technologies, products and processes. Our ability to successfully implement our business plan will depend in large part on our ability to: · acquire patented or patentable products and technologies; · obtain and maintain patent protection or market exclusivity for our current and acquired products; · preserve any trade secrets relating to our current and future products; and · operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Although we intend to make reasonable efforts to protect our current and future intellectual property rights and to ensure that any proprietary technology we acquire does not infringe the rights of other parties, we may not be able to ascertain the existence of all potentially conflicting claims. Therefore, there is a risk that third parties may make claims of infringement against our current or future products or technologies. In addition, third parties may be able to obtain patents that prevent the sale of our current or future products or require us to obtain a license and pay significant fees or royalties in order to continue selling such products. We may in the future discover the existence of products that infringe upon patents that we own or that have been licensed to us. Although we intend to protect our trade secrets and proprietary know-how through confidentiality agreements with our manufacturers, employees and consultants, we may not be able to prevent our competitors from breaching these agreements or third parties from independently developing or learning of our trade secrets. We anticipate that competitors may from time to time oppose our efforts to obtain patent protection for new technologies or to submit patented technologies for regulatory approvals. Competitors may seek to challenge patent applications or existing patents to delay the approval process, even if the challenge has little or no merit. Patent challenges are generally highly technical, time consuming and expensive to pursue. Were we to be subject to one or more patent challenges, that effort could consume substantial time and resources, with no assurances of success, even when holding an issued patent. The loss of any key management or qualified personnel could disrupt our business. We are highly dependent upon the efforts of our senior management. The loss of the services of one or more members of senior management could have a material adverse effect on us. As a small company with a streamlined management structure, the departure of any key person could have a significant impact and would be potentially disruptive to our business until such time as a suitable replacement is hired. Furthermore, because of the specialized nature of our business, as our business plan progresses we will be highly dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified scientific, technical and key management personnel. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in the areas of our activities. In this environment, we may not be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the development of our business, particularly if we do not achieve profitability. The failure to recruit key scientific, technical and management personnel would be detrimental to our ability to implement our business plan. We are subject to continuing potential product liability. Although we disposed of the majority of our former products during 2003 and 2004, we remain subject to the potential risk of product liability claims relating to the manufacturing and marketing of our former products during the period prior to their divestiture. Any person who is injured as a result of using one of our former products during our period of ownership may have a product liability claim against us without having to prove that we were at fault. The potential for liability exists despite the fact that our former subsidiary, Amarin Pharmaceuticals Inc. conducted all sales and marketing activities with respect to such products. Although we have not retained any liabilities of Amarin Pharmaceuticals Inc. in this regard, as the prior holder of ownership rights to such former products, third parties could seek to assert potential claims against us. Since we distributed and sold our products to a wide number of end users, the risk of such claims could be material. 13 We do not at present carry product liability insurance to cover any such risks. If we were to seek insurance coverage, we may not be able to maintain product liability coverage on acceptable terms if our claims experience results in high rates, or if product liability insurance otherwise becomes costlier or unavailable because of general economic, market or industry conditions. If we add significant products to our portfolio, we will require product liability coverage and may not be able to secure such coverage at reasonable rates or at all. Product liability claims could also be brought by persons who took part in clinical trials involving our current or former development stage products. A successful claim brought against us could have a material adverse effect on our business. Amarin was responsible for the sales and marketing of Permax from May 2001 until February 2004. On May 17, 2001, Amarin acquired the U.S. sales and marketing rights to Permax from Elan. An affiliate of Elan had previously obtained the licensing rights to Permax from Eli Lilly and Company in 1993. Eli Lilly originally obtained approval for Permax on December 30, 1988, and has been responsible for the manufacture and supply of Permax since that date. On February 25, 2004, Amarin sold its U.S. subsidiary, Amarin Pharmaceuticals, Inc., including the rights to Permax, to Valeant Pharmaceuticals International. In late 2002, Eli Lilly, as the holder of the NDA for Permax, received a recommendation from the FDA to consider making a change to the package insert for Permax based upon the very rare observation of cardiac valvulopathy in patients taking Permax. While Permax has not been definitely proven as the cause of this condition, similar reports have been notified in patients taking other ergot- derived pharmaceutical products, of which Permax is an example. In early 2003, Eli Lilly amended the package insert for Permax to reflect the risk of cardiac valvulopathy in patients taking Permax and also sent a letter to a number of doctors in the United States describing this potential risk. Causation has not been established, but is thought to be consistent with other fibrotic side effects observed in Permax. On March 29, 2007, the FDA announced that the manufacturers of pergolide drug products will voluntarily remove these drug products, including Permax, from the market. Further information about the removal of Permax and other pergolide drug products is available on the FDA’s website. During 2008, two lawsuits alleging claims related to cardiac valvulopathy and Permax were filed in March and August respectively. One of the lawsuits was dismissed in February 2009 and the remaining case is currently pending in the United States. Among others, Eli Lilly, Elan, Valeant, Amarin Pharmaceuticals, and Amarin are named as defendants in this lawsuit, however Amarin has not been formally served with the complaint from the lawsuit. In addition, six cases alleging claims related to cardiac valvulopathy and Permax were filed in April 2008 in the United States and currently remain pending. Eli Lily, Valeant, Amarin Pharmaceuticals and unidentified parties are named as defendants in these cases, and are defending against the claims and allegations. Amarin has not been named as defendant or served with the complaints from these cases. During 2009, two lawsuits alleging claims related to cardiac valvulopathy and Permax were filed in March and are currently pending in the United States. Eli Lilly, Elan, Valeant, Amarin Pharmaceuticals, Amarin and other parties are named as defendants in these lawsuits. Amarin has not been formally served with the complaint from these lawsuits. A third lawsuit, also filed in March, was dismissed in September only as to Amarin for the plaintiff’s failure to prosecute the case against Amarin. Ten other claims related to cardiac valvulopathy and Permax and one claim related to compulsive gambling and Permax are or were being threatened against Eli Lilly, Elan, and/or Valeant, and could possibly implicate Amarin. We have reviewed the position and having taken external legal advice and consider the potential risk of significant liability arising for Amarin from these legal actions to be remote. No provision is booked in the accounts at December 31, 2008. 14 The price of our ADSs and Ordinary Shares may be volatile. The stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. In addition, the market prices of the securities of many pharmaceutical and medical technology companies have been especially volatile in the past, and this trend is expected to continue in the future. Our ADSs may also be subject to volatility as a result of their limited trading market. At December 31, 2008 we had 26,551,388 ADSs representing Ordinary Shares outstanding and 495,328 Ordinary Shares outstanding (which are not held in the form of ADSs). There is a risk that there may not be sufficient liquidity in the market to accommodate significant increases in selling activity or the sale of a large block of our securities. Our ADSs have historically had limited trading volume, which may also result in volatility. During the twelve-month period ending December 31, 2008, the average daily trading volume for our ADSs was 17,772. If our public float and the level of trading remain at limited levels over the long term, this could result in volatility and increase the risk that the market price of our ADSs and Ordinary Shares may be affected by factors such as: · the announcement of new products or technologies; · innovation by us or our competitors; · developments or disputes concerning any future patent or proprietary rights; · actual or potential medical results relating to our products or our competitors’ products; · interim failures or setbacks in product development; · regulatory developments in the United States, the European Union or other countries; · currency exchange rate fluctuations; and · period-to-period variations in our results of operations. A Share price of less than $1.00 may impact the company’s NASDAQ listing. Amarin is currently trading above $1.00; however, in the period October 6, 2008 to April 7, 2009 Amarin was trading beneath $1.00. Due to the current state of capital markets, on October 16 2008, NASDAQ and the SEC suspended the application of the $1.00 minimum bid price rule until April 20, 2009. This suspension was further extended to July 19, 2009. NASDAQ noted that on September 30, 2008, 64 securities were trading at less than $1 while in mid November, 2008 that number had jumped to 344. The suspension was removed on July 20, 2009. If Amarin’s closing bid price is less than $1.00 for 30 consecutive trading days, Amarin will receive a NASDAQ staff deficiency letter indicating that the Company is not in compliance with the minimum bid price requirement for continued listing. Such a letter would trigger an automatic 180 calendar day period within which the company could regain compliance. Compliance is regained at any time during this period, if the Amarin closing bid price is $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive trading days. If compliance cannot be demonstrated by the end of the 180 days, Amarin will be afforded an additional 180 calendar day compliance period if Nasdaq determines at that time that the Company meets the remaining Nasdaq Capital Market initial listing criteria in Rule 5215(b), except for the bid price requirement. If Amarin was not eligible for an additional compliance period, NASDAQ would provide written notification that the Company’s securities will be delisted. At that time, Amarin could appeal NASDAQ’s determination to delist its securities to a Listing Qualifications Panel. 15 The issuances of ADSs and Ordinary Shares upon the conversion or exercise of our securities will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders, including stockholders who had previously exercised their warrants. The issuances of ADSs and Ordinary Shares in connection with the exercise of our warrants will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the ADSs and Ordinary Shares issuable upon such exercise could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our ADSs and Ordinary Shares. Future sales of our ADSs and/or Ordinary Shares in the public market could lower the market price for our ADSs and/or Ordinary Shares. In the future, we may sell additional ADSs and/or Ordinary Shares to raise capital or pursuant to contractual obligations. See “We may have to issue additional equity, leading to shareholder dilution.” We cannot predict the size of future issuances or sales of our ADSs and/or Ordinary Shares to raise capital or the effect, if any, that they may have on the market price for our ADSs and/or Ordinary Shares. The issuances and sales of substantial amounts of ADSs and/or Ordinary Shares, or the perception that such issuances and sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our ADSs and/or Ordinary Shares. We may lose our foreign private issuer status in the future, which could result in significant additional costs and expenses. We are a “foreign private issuer,” as such term is defined in Rule 405 under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and, therefore, we are not required to comply with all the periodic disclosure and current reporting requirements of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and related rules and regulations. In the future, we would lose our foreign private issuer status if a majority of our directors are U.S citizens or residents and we continue to fail to meet additional requirements necessary to avoid loss of foreign private issuer status. The regulatory and compliance costs to us under U.S. securities laws as a U.S. domestic issuer may be significantly more than costs we incur as a foreign private issuer. If we are not a foreign private issuer, we will be required to file periodic reports and registration statements on U.S. domestic issuer forms with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, which are more detailed and extensive than the forms available to foreign private issuer. We may also be required to prepare our financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. In addition we may lose our ability to rely upon exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements on U.S. stock exchanges that are available to foreign private issuers. U.S. Holders of our Ordinary Shares or ADSs could be subject to material adverse tax consequences if we are considered a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. There is a risk that we will be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or “PFIC”, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Our status as a PFIC could result in a reduction in the after-tax return to U.S. Holders of our Ordinary Shares or ADSs and may cause a reduction in the value of such shares. We will be classified as a PFIC for any taxable year in which (i) 75% or more of our gross income is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the average value of all our assets produces or are held for the production of passive income. For this purpose, passive income includes interest, gains from the sale of stock, and royalties that are not derived in the active conduct of a trade or business. Because we receive interest and may receive royalties, there is a risk that we will be considered a PFIC under the income test described above. In addition, because of our cash position and our ownership of patents, there is a risk that we will be considered a PFIC under the asset test described above. While we believe that the PFIC rules were not intended to apply to companies such as us that focus on research, development and commercialization of drugs, no assurance can be given that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service or a U.S. court would determine that, based on the composition of our income and assets, we are not a PFIC currently or in the future. If we were classified as a PFIC, U.S. holders of our Ordinary Shares or ADSs could be subject to greater U.S. income tax liability than might otherwise apply, imposition of U.S. income tax in advance of when tax would otherwise apply, and detailed tax filing requirements that would not otherwise apply. The PFIC rules are complex and a U.S. Holder of our Ordinary Shares or ADSs is urged to consult its own tax advisors regarding the possible application of the PFIC rules to it in its particular circumstances. 16 A change in our tax residence could have a negative effect on our future profitability Although we are incorporated in England and Wales, our directors seek to ensure that our affairs are conducted in such a manner that we are resident in Ireland for Irish, UK and U.S. tax purposes. It is possible that in the future, whether as a result of a change in law or the practice of any relevant tax authority or as a result of any change in the conduct of our affairs following a review by our directors, we could become, or be regarded as having become resident in a jurisdiction other than Ireland. Should we cease to be an Irish tax resident, we may be subject to a charge to Irish capital gains tax on our assets. Similarly, if the tax residency of any of our subsidiaries were to change from their current jurisdiction for any of the reasons listed above, we may be subject to a charge to local capital gains tax charge on the assets. U.S. Holders of our Ordinary Shares or ADSs may be subject to U.S. income taxation at ordinary income tax rates on undistributed earnings and profits. Given our current ownership, we expect that we are a controlled foreign corporation, (“CFC”) for the taxable year 2008 and we may be classified as a CFC in future taxable years. If we are classified as a CFC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, any shareholder that is a U.S. person that owns directly, indirectly or by attribution, 10% or more of the voting power of our outstanding shares may be subject to current U.S. income taxation at ordinary income tax rates on all or a portion of the Company’s undistributed earnings and profits attributable to “subpart F income.” Such 10% shareholder may also be taxable at ordinary income tax rates on any gain realized on a sale of Ordinary Shares or ADS, to the extent of the Company’s current and accumulated earnings and profits attributable to such shares. The CFC rules are complex and U.S. Holders of our Ordinary shares or ADSs are urged to consult their own tax advisors regarding the possible application of the CFC rules to them in their particular circumstances. The rights of our shareholders may differ from the rights typically offered to shareholders of a U.S. corporation. We are incorporated under English law. The rights of holders of Ordinary Shares and, therefore, certain of the rights of holders of ADSs, are governed by English law, including the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, and by our memorandum and articles of association. These rights differ in certain respects from the rights of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. The principal differences include the following: · Under English law, each shareholder present at a meeting has only one vote unless demand is made for a vote on a poll, in which each holder gets one vote per share owned. Under U.S. law, each shareholder typically is entitled to one vote per share at all meetings. Under English law, it is only on a poll that the number of shares determines the number of votes a holder may cast. You should be aware, however, that the voting rights of ADSs are also governed by the provisions of a deposit agreement with our depositary bank. · Under English law, each shareholder generally has preemptive rights to subscribe on a proportionate basis to any issuance of shares. Under U.S. law, shareholders generally do not have preemptive rights unless specifically granted in the certificate of incorporation or otherwise. · Under English law, certain matters require the approval of 75% of the shareholders, including amendments to the memorandum and articles of association. This may make it more difficult for us to complete corporate transactions deemed advisable by our board of directors. Under U.S. law, generally only majority shareholder approval is required to amend the certificate of incorporation or to approve other significant transactions. · Under English law, shareholders may be required to disclose information regarding their equity interests upon our request, and the failure to provide the required information could result in the loss or restriction of rights attaching to the shares, including prohibitions on the transfer of the shares, as well as restrictions on dividends and other payments. Comparable provisions generally do not exist under U.S. law. · The quorum requirement for a shareholders’ meeting is a minimum of two persons present in person or by proxy. Under U.S. law, a majority of the shares eligible to vote must generally be present (in person or by proxy) at a shareholders’ meeting in order to constitute a quorum. The minimum number of shares required for a quorum can be reduced pursuant to a provision in a company’s certificate of incorporation or bylaws, but typically not below one-third of the shares entitled to vote at the meeting. 17 U.S. shareholders may not be able to enforce civil liabilities against us. A number of our directors and executive officers and those of each of our subsidiaries, including Amarin Finance Limited, are non-residents of the United States, and all or a substantial portion of the assets of such persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon such persons or to enforce against them judgments obtained in U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. We have been advised by our English solicitors that there is doubt as to the enforceability in England in original actions, or in actions for enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, of civil liabilities to the extent predicated upon the federal securities laws of the United States. Amarin Finance Limited is an exempted company limited by shares organized under the laws of Bermuda. We have been advised by our Bermuda attorneys that uncertainty exists as to whether courts in Bermuda will enforce judgments obtained in other jurisdictions (including the United States) against us or our directors or officers under the securities laws of those jurisdictions or entertain actions in Bermuda against us or our directors or officers under the securities laws of other jurisdictions. Foreign currency fluctuations may affect our future financial results or cause us to incur losses. We prepare our financial statements in U.S. Dollars. Since our strategy involves the development of products for the U.S. market, a significant part of our clinical trial expenditures are denominated in U.S. Dollars and we anticipate that the majority of our future revenues will be denominated in U.S. Dollars. However, a significant portion of our costs are denominated in pounds sterling and euro as a result of our being engaged in activities in the United Kingdom and the European Union. As a consequence, the results reported in our financial statements are potentially subject to the impact of currency fluctuations between the U.S. Dollar on the one hand, and pounds sterling and euro on the other hand. We are focused on development activities and do not anticipate generating on-going revenues in the short-term. Accordingly, we do not engage in significant currency hedging activities in order to limit the risk of exchange rate fluctuations. However, if we should commence commercializing any products in the United States, changes in the relation of the U.S. Dollar to the pound sterling and/or the euro may affect our revenues and operating margins. In general, we could incur losses if the U.S. Dollar should become devalued relative to pounds sterling and/or the euro. We do not currently have the capability to undertake marketing, or sales of any potential products. We have not invested in marketing or product sales resources. We cannot assure you that we will be able to acquire such resources. We cannot assure you that we will successfully market any product we may develop, either independently or under marketing arrangements, if any, with other companies. To the extent that we enter into contractual relationships with other companies to market our products, if any, the success of such products may depend on the success of securing and maintaining such contractual relationships the efforts of those other companies (and any subcontractors they engage). We have limited personnel to oversee out-sourced contract manufacturing, clinical testing and the regulatory approval process. It is likely that we will also need to hire additional personnel skilled in the manufacturing, clinical testing and regulatory compliance process if we develop additional product candidates with commercial potential. We do not currently have the capability to conduct clinical testing in-house and do not currently have plans to develop such a capability. We out-source our clinical testing to contract research organizations. We currently have a limited number of employees and certain other outside consultants who oversee the contract research organizations involved in clinical testing of our compounds. We cannot assure you that our limited oversight of the contract research organizations will suffice to avoid significant problems with the protocols and conduct of the clinical trials. We depend on contract research organizations to conduct our pre-clinical and our clinical testing. We have engaged and intend to continue to engage third party contract research organizations and other third parties to help us develop our drug candidates. Although we have designed the clinical trials for drug candidates, the contract re- 18 search organizations will be conducting all of our clinical trials. As a result, many important aspects of our drug development programs have been and will continue to be outside of our direct control. In addition, the contract research organizations may not perform all of their obligations under arrangements with us. If the contract research organizations do not perform clinical trials in a satisfactory manner or breach their obligations to us, the development and commercialization of any drug candidate may be delayed or precluded. We cannot control the amount and timing of resources these contract research organizations devote to our programs or product candidates. The failure of any of these contract research organizations to comply with any governmental regulations would substantially harm our development and marketing efforts and delay or prevent regulatory approval of our drug candidates. If we are unable to rely on clinical data collected by others, we could be required to repeat, extend the duration of, or increase the size of our clinical trials and this could significantly delay commercialization and require significantly greater expenditures. Despite the use of confidentiality agreements and/or proprietary rights agreements, which themselves may be of limited effectiveness, it may be difficult for us to protect our trade secrets. We rely on trade secrets to protect technology in cases when we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we require certain of our academic collaborators, contractors and consultants to enter into confidentiality agreements, we may not be able to adequately protect our trade secrets or other proprietary information. Potential technological changes in our field of business create considerable uncertainty. We are engaged in the biopharmaceutical field, which is characterized by extensive research efforts and rapid technological progress. New developments in research are expected to continue at a rapid pace in both industry and academia. We cannot assure you that research and discoveries by others will not render some or all of our programs or product candidates uncompetitive or obsolete. Our business strategy is based in part upon new and unproven technologies to the development of biopharmaceutical products for the treatment of cardiovascular diseases. We cannot assure you that unforeseen problems will not develop with these technologies or applications or that commercially feasible products will ultimately be developed by us. Third-party reimbursement and health care cost containment initiatives and treatment guidelines may constrain our future revenues. Our ability to market successfully our existing and future new products will depend in part on the level of reimbursement that government health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers and other organizations provide for the cost of our products and related treatments. Countries in which our products are sold through reimbursement schemes under national health insurance programs frequently require that manufacturers and sellers of pharmaceutical products obtain governmental approval of initial prices and any subsequent price increases. In certain countries, including the United States, government-funded and private medical care plans can exert significant indirect pressure on prices. We may not be able to sell our products profitably if adequate prices are not approved or reimbursement is unavailable or limited in scope. Increasingly, third-party payers attempt to contain health care costs in ways that are likely to impact our development of products including: · failing to approve or challenging the prices charged for health care products; · introducing reimportation schemes from lower priced jurisdictions; · limiting both coverage and the amount of reimbursement for new therapeutic products; · denying or limiting coverage for products that are approved by the regulatory agencies but are considered to be experimental or investigational by third-party payers; · refusing to provide coverage when an approved product is used in a way that has not received regulatory marketing approval; and 19 · refusing to provide coverage when an approved product is not appraised favorably by the National Institute for Clinical Excellence in the U.K., or similar agencies in other countries. We are undergoing significant organizational change. Failure to manage disruption to the business or the loss of key personnel could have an adverse effect on our business. We are making significant changes to both our management structure and the locations from which we operate. We opened a new office in Mystic, CT, in September 2008 and we plan to transition certain corporate activities in early 2010. As a result of this, in the short term, morale may be lowered and key employees may be distracted from their usual role. This could result in delays in development projects, failure to achieve managerial targets or other disruption to the business which could have material adverse affects on our business and results of operations. Item 