Item 1A. Risk Factors.” ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Chico’s FAS, Inc.1, is a cultivator of brands serving the lifestyle needs of fashion-savvy women 30 years and older. The Company’s portfolio of brands currently consists of four brands: Chico’s, White House | Black Market (“WH|BM”), Soma Intimates (“Soma”), and Boston Proper. Our brands are all specialty retailers of private label women’s apparel, accessories, and related products. While each of our brands has a distinct customer base, the portfolio overall caters to a broad age and economic demographic, with customers ages from 30 and older and household incomes ranging from $50,000 to well over $100,000. Since 1983, we have grown by offering high quality and unique merchandise supported by compelling marketing and outstanding and personalized customer service. Since 2003, we have also grown by the acquisition or organic development of other specialty retail concepts. As of January 28, 2012, we operated 1,256 stores across 48 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. We also produce catalogs and operate e-commerce websites and a call center that sell our merchandise nationally and internationally. Our Brands Chico’s The Chico’s brand, which began operations in 1983, primarily sells exclusively designed, private branded clothing focusing on women 30 and over with a moderate to high income level. The styling is chic, unique, and charismatic with on-trend, expressive, one of a kind designs created to illuminate the women wearing them. Using generally easy-care fabrics and frequent deliveries of new and distinctive designs, Chico’s emphasizes a comfortable relaxed fit in a modern style. Accessories, such as handbags, belts, scarves, earrings, necklaces and bracelets, are designed to coordinate with the assortment of the clothing, allowing customers to easily individualize their wardrobe selections. Chico’s controls almost all aspects of the design process, including choices of pattern, prints, construction, design specifications, fabric, finishes and color through in-house designers, purchased designs, and independent suppliers. The distinctive nature of Chico’s clothing is carried through to its sizing. Chico’s uses international sizing, comprising of sizes 000, 00 (size 0-2), 0 (size 4-6), 1 (size 8-10), 2 (size 12-14), 3 (size 16-18), and 4 (size 20-22) and will occasionally offer, half-sizes (up to 4.5), one-size-fits-all and small, medium and large sizing for some items. The relaxed nature of the clothing allows us to utilize this kind of sizing and thus offer a wide selection of clothing without having to invest in a large number of different sizes within a single style. White House | Black Market The WH|BM brand, which began operations in 1985 and which we acquired in September 2003, primarily sells exclusively designed, private branded clothing focusing on women who are 30 years old and over with a moderate to high income level. WH|BM offers a uniquely feminine and affordable alternative to designer fashion selling fashionable and sophisticated clothing and accessory items, from everyday basics, to wear-to-work, to elegant fashion, primarily in black and white and related shades with seasonal color splashes. The accessories at WH|BM, such as handbags, shoes, belts, earrings, necklaces and bracelets, are specifically designed to coordinate with the colors and patterns of the clothing, allowing customers to easily individualize their wardrobe selections. 1 As used in this report, all references to “we,” “us,” “our,” and “the Company,” refer to Chico’s FAS, Inc., a Florida corporation, and all of its wholly-owned subsidiaries. 2 Table of Contents WH|BM controls almost all aspects of the design process, including choices of pattern, prints, construction, design specifications, fabric, finishes and color through in-house designers, purchased designs, and independent suppliers. WH|BM uses American sizes in the 00-14 range (with online sizes up to size 16), which we believe is appropriate for the target WH|BM customer. The fit of the WH|BM clothing is tailored to complement the figure of a body-conscious woman, while still remaining comfortable. Soma Intimates The Soma brand, which began operations in 2004, primarily sells exclusively designed private branded lingerie, loungewear and beauty products focusing on women who are 35 years old and over with a moderate to high income level. Soma offers trend-right, innovative and expertly fitted lingerie and loungewear apparel, with designer quality at affordable prices. Soma offerings are broken into three broad categories: lingerie, loungewear and beauty. The lingerie category includes bras, panties, shapewear and sleepwear while the loungewear category includes relaxed tops, bottoms and dresses. Bras are sized using traditional American band and cup sizes. Panties range in size from extra small to extra-extra large. The sleepwear and loungewear offerings utilize extra small to extra large sizing. The beauty category includes the Oh My Gorgeous line of fine fragrance perfumes and lotions. The Soma brand product offerings are developed by working closely with a small number of its independent suppliers to design proprietary products in-house and, in some cases, it includes designs provided by its independent suppliers under labels other than the Soma label. Boston Proper The Boston Proper brand, which we acquired in September 2011, is an online and catalog based retailer of women’s high end apparel and accessories, focusing on women between 35-55 years old with higher income levels. Boston Proper is focused on creating a daring, modern style with a sensual feel designed for today’s independent, confident and active woman. Boston Proper uses American sizes ranging from extra small to large for many of its offerings and sizes 2-16 in short, regular and long lengths for pants and denims. While Boston Proper does not currently operate any stores, we plan to test stores for this brand in fiscal 2013. Our Business Strategy Our overall growth strategy is focused on building and cultivating a portfolio of high performing retail brands serving the fashion needs of women 30 years and older. In the near term, we are focused on increasing the sales volume and profitability of our existing brands. Over the long term, we may build our brand portfolio by considering the organic development or acquisition of other specialty retail concepts when our research indicates that the opportunity complements our current brands and is appropriate and in the best interest of the shareholders. We also pursue the growth of the brands in our portfolio by building our store base (where and when appropriate), improving store productivity levels, and growing our online presence. We build our store base primarily through the opening of new boutique and outlet stores, the expansion of existing stores, and the acquisition of businesses that already have stores. We seek to improve store productivity with improved product offerings, which includes potential new merchandise opportunities and brand extensions that complements the current offerings, as well as our continued emphasis on our “Most Amazing Personal Service,” and compelling and creative marketing. We seek to expand and enhance our online presence and growing online sales through investments in the people, products and infrastructure necessary to support our online sales as well as through our acquisition of Boston Proper. To support this overall strategy and the associated increase in revenues and expenses, we have continued to invest in our infrastructure. This infrastructure investment includes additional staffing necessary to support growth, the expansion of our distribution center facilities, and other infrastructure initiatives. Our Customer Service Model Our customers deserve outstanding and personalized customer service and we strive to achieve this through our trademark “Most Amazing Personal Service” standard. We believe this service model is one of our 3 Table of Contents competitive advantages and a key to high productivity levels at our boutiques. As a result, we give sales associates specialized training to help associates meet their customers’ fashion and wardrobe needs, including clothing and accessory style and color selection, coordination of complete outfits, and suggestions on different ways in which to wear the clothing and accessories. Our sales associates are encouraged to develop long-term relationships with their customers, to know their customers’ preferences, and to assist those customers in selecting merchandise best suited to their tastes and wardrobe needs. We also serve our customers’ needs, and build customer loyalty, through our customer loyalty programs. The data we gather from these programs allows us to more sharply focus our design, merchandising and marketing efforts to better address and define the desires of our target customer. Ÿ Chico’s and Soma. The Chico’s and Soma customer loyalty program is known as the “Passport Club” and is designed to encourage repeat sales and foster customer loyalty for both brands. Features of the club include discounts, special promotions, invitations to private sales, and advance notice regarding new Chico’s and Soma merchandise. A Chico’s or Soma customer signs up to join the Passport Club at no cost, initially as a “preliminary” member. Once the customer spends a total of $500 over any time frame collectively across the two brands, the customer becomes a “permanent” member and is entitled to a 5% discount on all apparel and accessory purchases, advance sale notices and other benefits, subject to certain restrictions. Also, we issued Soma-branded cards to those customers that had entered the program with a Soma purchase (or had qualified for Passport status based on 100% Soma purchases). We continuously evaluate our Passport Club in conjunction with our overall customer relationship management and marketing activities to ensure that it remains a compelling reason for customers to shop at the Chico’s and Soma brands. Ÿ WH|BM. WH|BM’s customer loyalty program is called “The Black Book.” The purposes, prerequisites, and benefits of The Black Book are identical to the Passport Club except that a customer need only spend $300 at WH|BM over any time frame to become a “permanent” member. We continuously evaluate The Black Book in conjunction with our overall customer relationship management and marketing activities to ensure that it remains a compelling reason for customers to shop at WH|BM. Ÿ Boston Proper. Boston Proper does not have a customer loyalty program at this time. Our Boutiques and Outlet Stores Our boutiques are located in upscale outdoor destination shopping areas, lifestyle specialty centers, shopping malls, and some standalone street front locations. Boutique locations are determined on the basis of various factors, including, but not limited to: geographic and demographic characteristics of the market, the location of the shopping venue including the site within the shopping center, proposed lease terms, anchor or other tenants in a location and convenience. In response to business conditions over the last few years, we became more innovative in the way we executed our real estate strategy, including rent reductions, renegotiating leases and further we began testing “pop-up” stores for our Soma brand. These stores were designed to take advantage of vacancies in high profile shopping locations. They required minimal investment and had short or flexible lease terms facilitating our ability to test Soma’s potential for success in a particular location. The results of the pop-up store strategy were generally successful as many of these locations have been or we anticipate will be converted to permanent locations. We may continue to use “pop-up” stores as a real estate strategy as circumstances warrant. Our outlet stores are located in premium outlet centers. The Chico’s and WH|BM brand outlets contain a mixture of made-for-outlet and clearance merchandise. The made-for-outlet product carries a higher margin than the clearance items from our boutique stores. Soma outlets contain a mix of full price and clearance merchandise. We have also shifted clearance merchandise to our websites. We regularly review the appropriate ratio of made-for-outlet and clearance merchandise for our outlets and will adjust that ratio as appropriate. In fiscal 2012, we currently expect to open approximately 135 new stores and close approximately 20 stores. We expect 28-32 net openings of Chico’s stores, 54-58 net openings of WH|BM stores and 28-32 net openings of Soma stores. 4 Table of Contents As of January 28, 2012, we operated 1,256 retail stores in 48 states, the District of Columbia, the U.S. Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico. During fiscal 2007, we acquired all remaining franchise stores. The following tables set forth information concerning our retail stores during the past five fiscal years: Fiscal Year2 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Stores Stores at beginning of year 1,151 1,080 1,076 1,038 907 Opened 137 79 40 62 143 Acquired from franchisees — — — — 13 Closed (32 ) (8 ) (36 ) (24 ) (25 ) Total Stores 1,256 1,151 1,080 1,076 1,038 Fiscal Year End 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Stores by Brand Chico’s boutique 601 597 599 619 604 Chico’s outlet 83 63 44 41 37 Chico’s total 684 660 643 660 641 WH|BM boutique 364 342 333 328 309 WH|BM outlet 27 21 17 17 19 WH|BM total 391 363 350 345 328 Soma Intimates boutique 164 120 83 70 68 Soma Intimates outlet 17 8 4 1 1 Soma Intimates total 181 128 87 71 69 Total Stores 1,256 1,151 1,080 1,076 1,038 Our Catalogs We currently mail a Chico’s, WH|BM, and Soma catalog to current and prospective customers approximately every month. These catalogs are designed to educate our customers about our products, assist with new customer acquisition, and drive customers into stores and promote website and catalog sales. Boston Proper mails catalogs more frequently than our other brands. In fiscal 2011, each active Boston Proper customer received approximately 17 catalogs timed to coincide with seasonal trends. These catalogs are designed to educate our customers about our products, assist with new customer acquisition, and promote website and catalog sales. Catalog sales for each of our brands are made through our call centers or online. 2 Our fiscal years end on the Saturday closest to January 31 and are designated by the calendar year in which the fiscal year commences. The periods presented in these financial statements are the fiscal years ended January 28, 2012 (“fiscal 2011”, “2011”, or “current period”), January 29, 2011 (“fiscal 2010”, “2010”, or “prior period”), January 30, 2010 (“fiscal 2009” or “2009”), January 31, 2009 (“fiscal 2008” or “2008”), and February 2, 2008 (“fiscal 2007 or “2007”). Each of these periods had 52 weeks. 5 Table of Contents Our Websites Each of our brands has its own dedicated website, www.chicos.com, www.whbm.com, www.soma.com, and www.bostonproper.com providing customers the ability to browse our offerings and order merchandise online. Some items are only available online, such as extended size offerings and some clearance items. Online merchandise is also available through our call centers. For fiscal 2012, we expect to continue to focus on growing our brands’ sales from our websites by enhancing website functionality to improve the customer’s experience in order to increase our online sales penetration and grow market share. Advertising and Promotion Our marketing program currently consists of the following integrated components: Ÿ Loyalty programs: the Passport Club and The Black Book; Ÿ Direct marketing activities: direct mail, e-mail, and localized calling campaigns; Ÿ E-marketing efforts: paid search, banner marketing, affiliates and search engine optimization; Ÿ National print and broadcast advertising; Ÿ Social marketing; and Ÿ Outreach programs. During fiscal 2011, we continued to actively market our brands through each of these components. We believe that these marketing campaigns helped acquire new customers, reactivated lapsed customers and were a key factor in our financial performance in fiscal 2011. Our direct marketing efforts have been successful in driving traffic to our brands. During fiscal 2011, we continued our extensive prospecting efforts across all brands to identify and motivate new customers to shop with us. In addition, we focused the circulation of our marketing materials on the more profitable or potentially profitable customers, which improved incremental sales and profitability. We also successfully tested a number of new sources for prospects and, as a result, gained a large number of new customers to our brands at a positive return on investment of our marketing dollars. Over the last few years, we expanded our e-marketing efforts for our brands. We made significant investments in paid search with well-known internet search sites and appeared on banner ads on various highly trafficked websites. Moreover, we tested mobile marketing in a limited number of markets as we attempt to leverage technology to optimize communications with our customers. National print and broadcast advertising are key components of our marketing program and serve to drive traffic to our stores and websites as well as raising brand awareness for new customers. Social marketing is another strategy by which we can actively engage with customers by offering them unique content including exclusive offers, sneak peeks into new collections, style advice, live chats and other special promotions. We believe that there is significant opportunity to innovate and grow our social marketing efforts, including the use of websites such as Facebook and Twitter. Lastly, we place great value on our outreach programs. These outreach programs include editors’ events, VIP parties, fashion shows and wardrobing parties. As part of these outreach programs, we encourage our managers and sales associates to become involved in community projects. We believe that these programs, in addition to helping build and support community and charitable activities, are also effective marketing vehicles in providing introductions to new customers. Information Technology We are committed to having information systems that enable us to obtain, analyze and act upon information on a timely basis and to maintain effective financial and operational controls. This effort includes testing of new products and applications so that we are able to take advantage of technological developments. 6 Table of Contents Merchandise Distribution Distribution for the Chico’s, Soma and WH|BM brands is handled by our distribution center (“DC”) in Winder, Georgia. New merchandise is generally received daily at the Winder DC. Imported merchandise is shipped from the country of export by truck, rail, sea or air, as the circumstances require. Domestic merchandise is shipped by rail or truck. All merchandise arrives at the DC by truck. After arrival, merchandise is sorted and packaged for shipment to individual stores or is sent to our online and catalog fulfillment center. Merchandise is generally pre-ticketed with price and related informational tags at the point of manufacture. During fiscal 2011, we determined that our existing DC configuration needed to be adjusted to better support the anticipated growth of our company, particularly in our websites. Therefore, we began a long-term project to reconfigure our DC facilities to more efficiently manage our inventories and fulfill customer orders. We expect that this strategy will position our DC in Winder to accommodate the needs of our business over the next several years. Distribution for the Boston Proper brand is handled by its DC in Boca Raton, Florida. The operation of Boston Proper’s DC is similar in many respects to our Winder DC. All Boston Proper website and catalog sales are shipped to our customers from the Boca Raton DC. Product Sourcing All of our brands purchase a significant percentage of their clothing and accessories from companies that manufacture merchandise in foreign countries. We may take ownership in the foreign country, at a designated point of entry into the United States, or at one or our DC’s depending on the specific terms of the sale. We conduct business with all of our foreign suppliers and importers in United States currency. Approximately 22% of total purchases in fiscal 2011 were made from one supplier, compared to 18% in fiscal 2010. Most of our sourcing activities are performed by one shared service group. We believe that this single group, working in concert with our key supply chain partners, will deliver higher quality goods at a lower cost while providing the opportunity to lessen freight costs through consolidation. We believe that the decision to centralize our sourcing operations has helped us mitigate the impact of higher sourcing costs. For all of our brands, we regularly evaluate where best to have our goods manufactured. During fiscal 2010 and 2011, in response to decreased capacity and cost of labor increases in China, we began transitioning to suppliers located in other countries. For fiscal 2011, China sources accounted for approximately 61% of our merchandise cost compared to approximately 63% in the prior fiscal year. Competition The women’s retail apparel and intimate apparel business is highly competitive and includes department stores, specialty stores, local or regional boutique stores, catalog companies, and online retailers. We believe that our distinctively designed merchandise offerings and emphasis on customer service distinguish us from other retailers. Certain of these competitors may have greater name recognition as well as greater financial, marketing and other resources compared to us. Trademarks and Service Marks We are the owner of certain registered and common law trademarks and service marks (collectively referred to as “Marks”). Marks registered in the United States include, but are not limited to: CHICO’S, PASSPORT, ZENERGY, WHITE HOUSE|BLACK MARKET, SOMA INTIMATES, VANISHING EDGE, OH MY GORGEOUS, BOSTON PROPER and WEAR IT LIKE NO ONE ELSE. We have registered or are seeking to register a number of these Marks in certain foreign countries as well. In the opinion of management, our rights in the Marks are important to our business. Accordingly, we intend to maintain our Marks and the related registrations and applications. We are not aware of any claims of infringement or other challenges to our rights to use any registered Marks in the United States or any other jurisdiction in which the Marks have been registered. 7 Table of Contents Available Information Our investor relations website is located at www.chicosfas.com. Through this website, we make available free of charge our Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) filings including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after those reports are electronically filed with the SEC. This website also includes recent press releases, corporate governance information, beneficial ownership reports, institutional presentations, quarterly and institutional conference calls and other quarterly financial data such as historical store square footage. Our Code of Ethics, which is applicable to all of our associates, including the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer and the Board of Directors, is posted on our investor relations website. We intend to post amendments to or waivers from our Code of Ethics on this website. Copies of the charters of each of the Audit Committee, Compensation and Benefits Committee and Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee as well as the Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Ethics, Terms of Commitment to Ethical Sourcing, and Stock Ownership Guidelines are available on this website or in print upon written request by any shareholder. Employees As of January 28, 2012, we employed approximately 19,800 people, approximately 25% of whom were full-time associates and approximately 75% of whom were part-time associates. The number of part-time associates fluctuates during peak selling periods. As of the above date, approximately 90% of our associates worked in our boutique and outlet stores. We have no collective bargaining agreements covering any of our associates, have never experienced any material labor disruption and are unaware of any efforts or plans to organize our associates. We currently contribute a significant portion of the cost of medical, dental and vision coverage for eligible associates and also maintain a 401(k) accompanied by an employer matching contribution, stock incentive and stock purchase plans. All associates are also eligible to receive substantial discounts on our merchandise. We consider relations with our associates to be good. Executive Officers of the Registrant Set forth below is certain information regarding our executive officers: David F. Dyer, 62, is our President and Chief Executive Officer and joined us in January 2009. He is also a member of our Board of Directors having joined the Board in March 2007. Sheryl Clark, 46, is our Brand President — Boston Proper and joined us in September 2011 as a result of our acquisition of Boston Proper. Donna M. Colaco, 53, is our Brand President — White House | Black Market and joined us in August 2007. Cynthia S. Murray, 54, is our Brand President — Chico’s and joined us in February 2009. Laurie Van Brunt, 54, is our Brand President — Soma Intimates and joined us in May 2010. Lee Eisenberg, 65, is our Executive Vice President — Chief Creative Officer and joined us in February 2009. Gary A. King, 54, is our Executive Vice President — Chief Information Officer and joined us in October 2004. Kent A. Kleeberger, 59, is our Executive Vice President — Chief Operating Officer and joined us in November 2007. Pamela K. Knous, 57, is our Executive Vice President — Chief Financial Officer and joined us in June 2011. Mori C. MacKenzie, 61, is our Executive Vice President — Chief Stores Officer and joined us in October 1995. 8 Table of Contents A. Alexander Rhodes, 53, is our Executive Vice President — General Counsel, Chief Compliance Officer and Secretary and joined us in January 2003. Sara K. Stensrud, 44, is our Executive Vice President — Chief Human Resources Officer and joined us in July 2010. All of the above officers serve at the discretion of our Board of Directors. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves certain risks. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks that may have a material adverse effect on the Company and the risks described herein are not listed in order of the likelihood that the risk might occur or the severity of the impact if the risk should occur. There can be no assurance that we have correctly identified, assessed and appropriately addressed all risks affecting our business operations or that the publicly available and other information with respect to these matters is complete and correct. Additional risks and uncertainties also could adversely affect our business and our results. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected, and the market price for our shares could decline. Further, to the extent that any of the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitutes forward-looking statements, the risk factors set forth below also are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. There can also be no assurance that the actual future results, performance, benefits, or achievements that we expect from our strategies, systems, initiatives, or products will occur. Risks Associated With Our Growth Strategy. As noted on page 3, our overall growth strategy is focused on building and cultivating a portfolio of high performing retail brands targeting women 30 years and older. If we cannot successfully execute our growth strategy, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. There are numerous risks associated with this strategy including, but not limited to, the following: Our ability to effectively implement and manage our growth strategy. Our growth strategy is dependent upon a number of factors, including: testing of new retail concepts and products, locating new boutique sites at suitable locations with the proper customer demographics, negotiating favorable lease terms, having the infrastructure necessary to support growth, sourcing sufficient levels of inventory, hiring and training qualified associates, generating sufficient operating cash flows to fund expansion plans, and integrating new boutiques into existing operations. Our ability to identify and develop new concepts, brand extensions and new markets. One aspect of our growth strategy involves the strategic acquisition or organic development and growth of new concepts, brand extensions and new markets. Each of these involves risks such as the failure to achieve the results that we expect, significant capital expenditures, diversion of management’s attention from operational matters, difficulties integrating operations and personnel, difficulties associated with the retention of key personnel, customer acceptance, competition, product differentiation, and challenges to economies of scale in merchandise sourcing. Our ability to effectively manage the productivity of our boutiques, websites and catalogs. There is no guarantee that any new boutique we open will have similar operating results to those of our existing boutiques. Depending on the brand, new boutiques may take three to four years to reach planned operating levels due to inefficiencies typically associated with new boutiques, including demands on operational, managerial and administrative resources, and some new boutiques may never reach planned operating levels. The failure of existing or new boutiques to perform as predicted could result in impairment of long-lived assets. In addition, we maintain inventory levels for our stores, catalogs, and websites that we anticipate will be in line with projected demand. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs or the sale of excess inventory at discounted or closeout prices. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer 9 Table of Contents demand for our merchandise, particularly higher volume styles, or if our suppliers fail to supply quality products in a timely manner, we may experience inventory shortages, which might result in missed sales, negatively impact customer relationships, diminish brand loyalty and result in lost revenues. Our ability to effectively locate new and existing boutiques. We cannot control the availability or cost of appropriate locations within existing or new shopping centers or the success of individual shopping centers. Furthermore, factors beyond our control impact shopping centers, such as general economic conditions, weather conditions, consumer acceptance of new or existing shopping centers, regional demographic shifts, and consumer spending levels. Our sales are dependent on a certain level of shopping center traffic and any large scale decline in shopping center traffic, whether because of the slowdown in the economy, a falloff in the popularity of shopping centers among our target customers, or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to anticipate and remain current with fashion trends and successfully introduce new products. Our success is principally dependent upon our ability to gauge the fashion tastes of our customers and to provide merchandise that is on-trend and satisfies customer demand in a timely manner. The failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately and in a timely manner to changes in fashion trends or demands, could lead to lower sales, missed opportunities, excess inventories and more frequent markdowns or inventory write-downs, as well as have a negative impact on our image and result in reduced brand loyalty. Risks Associated with General Economic Conditions. Numerous economic conditions negatively affect the level of consumer spending on the merchandise that we offer. If these economic conditions persist for a sustained period, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. These economic conditions include, but are not limited to, the following: Conditions that lead to declines in consumer spending. The following economic conditions are among the many that can lead to declines in consumer spending on our merchandise: higher unemployment levels, low levels of consumer credit, inflation, interest rates, recessionary pressures, increasing gas and other energy costs, taxation, decreasing housing prices, volatility in the financial markets, and low consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Fluctuations in costs of goods, energy and/or commodity costs. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of fabrics and other raw materials used to manufacture our products, as well as the price for labor and transportation have contributed to, and may continue to contribute to, ongoing pricing pressures throughout our supply chain. The price and availability of such inputs to the manufacturing process may fluctuate significantly, depending on several factors, including commodity costs, such as higher cotton prices, energy costs, such as fuel, inflationary pressures from emerging markets, increased labor costs, weather conditions and currency fluctuations. Impairment charges. Periodically, we review our long-lived assets for impairment whenever economic events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. We also review our goodwill and intangible assets for indicators of impairment. Significant negative industry or general economic trends, disruptions to our business and unexpected significant changes or planned changes in our use of the assets (such as boutique relocations or discontinuing use of certain boutique fixtures) may result in impairments to goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on impairment charges. Fluctuating comparable sales and overall operating results. Our comparable sales and overall operating results have fluctuated in the past and are expected to continue to fluctuate in the future. A variety of factors affect comparable sales and operating results, including changes in fashion trends, changes in our merchandise mix, customer acceptance of merchandise offerings, timing of catalog 10 Table of Contents mailings, expansion of our online sales, calendar shifts of holiday periods, actions by competitors, new boutique openings, weather conditions, and general economic conditions. Past comparable sales or operating results are not an indicator of future results. Risks Associated With Our Online and Catalog Operations. Our online and catalog operations are subject to numerous risks that could materially adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following: Our websites rely on technology. We sell merchandise over the Internet through each of our brands’ websites. Our websites are heavily dependent on technology, which creates numerous risks including unanticipated operating problems, system failures, rapid technological change, failure of the systems that operate the websites, reliance on third party computer hardware and software providers, computer viruses, telecommunication failures, liability for online content, data breaches, denial of service attacks, spamming, phishing attacks, computer hackers and other similar disruptions. Our catalog operations rely on the U.S. Postal Service. We use the U.S. Postal Service to mail millions of catalogs each year to educate our customers about our products, acquire new customers, drive customers into boutiques, and promote website and catalog sales. As a result, postal rate increases and paper and printing costs will affect the cost of our order fulfillment and catalog and promotional mailings. We rely on discounts from the basic postal rate structure, such as discounts for bulk mailings and sorting. The operational and financial difficulties of the U.S. Postal Service are well documented. Any significant and unanticipated increase in postage, reduction in postal service, or slow-down in postal delivery, or increases in paper and printing costs could impair our ability to deliver catalogs in a timely or economically efficient manner and also could adversely impact our earnings if we are unable to pass such increases directly on to our customers or if we are unable to implement more efficient printing, mailing, delivery and order fulfillment systems. Risks Associated with Our Information Technology Systems. We rely on various information technology systems to manage our operations. Information technology systems are subject to numerous risks including unanticipated operating problems, system failures, rapid technological change, failure of the systems that operate as anticipated, reliance on third party computer hardware and software providers, computer viruses, data breaches, denial of service attacks, spamming, phishing attacks, computer hackers and other similar disruptions, any of which could materially adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Additional risks include, but are not limited to, the following: Disruptions in current systems or difficulties in integrating new systems. We regularly maintain, upgrade, enhance or replace our information technology systems to support our business strategies and provide business continuity. Replacing legacy systems with successor systems, making changes to existing systems or acquiring new systems with new functionality have inherent risks including disruptions, delays, or difficulties that may impair the effectiveness of our information technology systems. Cybersecurity. Cybersecurity refers to the combination of technologies, processes, and procedures established to protect information technology systems and data from unauthorized access, attack, or damage. We are subject to cybersecurity risks and incidents. Our business involves the storage and transmission of customers’ personal information, shopping preferences and credit card information. While we have implemented measures to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, our measures may not be effective and any security breaches and cyber incidents could have a material adverse affect on our business. Furthermore, the storage and transmission of such data is regulated at the international, federal and state levels. Privacy and information security laws and regulation changes, and compliance with them, may result in cost increases due to system changes and the 11 Table of Contents development of new administrative processes. If we or our associates fail to comply with these laws and regulations or experience a data security breach, our reputation could be damaged, possibly resulting in lost future business, and we could be subjected to fines, penalties, administrative orders and other legal risks as a result of a breach or non-compliance. Risks Associated With Our Sourcing and Distribution Strategies. Our sourcing and distribution strategies are subject to numerous risks that could materially adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following: Our significant reliance on foreign sources of production. The majority of our clothing and accessories is produced outside the United States, this percentage has been growing, and the trend may continue. As a result, our business remains subject to the various risks of doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad, such as: geo-political instability, imposition of new legislation relating to import quotas that may limit the quantity of goods that may be imported into the United States from countries in which we do business, imposition of new or increased duties, taxes, and other charges on imports, foreign exchange rate challenges and pressures presented by implementation of U.S. monetary policy, local business practice and political issues, including issues relating to compliance with our Terms of Commitment to Ethical Sourcing and domestic or international labor standards, transportation disruptions, natural disasters, delays in the delivery of cargo due to port security considerations, and seizure or detention of goods by U.S. Customs authorities. In particular, we continue to source a substantial portion of our merchandise from China. A change in the Chinese currency, other policies affecting labor laws or the costs of goods in China could negatively impact our merchandise costs. We cannot predict whether or not any of the foreign countries in which our clothing and accessories are currently, or in the future may be produced, will be subject to import restrictions by the United States government, including the likelihood, type or effect of any trade retaliation. Trade restrictions, including increased tariffs, or more restrictive quotas, including safeguard quotas, or anything similar, applicable to apparel items could affect the importation of apparel generally and, in that event, could increase the cost, or reduce the supply, of apparel available to us. In addition, the laws and customs protecting intellectual property rights in many foreign countries can be substantially different and potentially less protective of intellectual property than those in the United States. We have taken numerous steps to protect our intellectual property overseas, but cannot guarantee that such rights are not infringed. The intentional or unintentional infringement on our intellectual property rights by one of our suppliers or any other person or entity, could diminish the uniqueness of our products, tarnish our trademarks, or damage our reputation. Our suppliers’ ability to provide quality goods in a timely manner. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and depend on independent third parties to manufacture our merchandise. We are subject to the risk that a key supplier may become unable to address our merchandising needs due to payment terms, cost of manufacturing, adequacy of manufacturing capacity, quality control, or timeliness of delivery. If we were unexpectedly required to change suppliers or if a key supplier was unable to supply acceptable merchandise in sufficient quantities on acceptable terms, we could experience a significant disruption in the supply of merchandise. We could also experience operational difficulties with our suppliers, such as reductions in the availability of production capacity, supply chain disruptions, errors in complying with merchandise specifications, insufficient quality control, shortages of fabrics or other raw materials, failures to meet production deadlines or increases in manufacturing costs. Furthermore, many of our suppliers rely on working capital financing to finance their operations. Although the credit market has improved, lenders have still maintained tightened credit standards and terms. To the extent any of our suppliers are unable to obtain adequate credit or their borrowing costs increase, we may experience delays in obtaining merchandise, our suppliers increasing their prices or our suppliers modifying payment terms in a manner that is unfavorable to us. 12 Table of Contents Our significant reliance upon one supplier. We have no material long-term or exclusive contract with any apparel or accessory manufacturer or supplier. Our business depends on our network of suppliers and our continued good relations with them. Approximately 22% of total purchases in fiscal 2011 and 18% of total purchases in 2010 were made from one supplier. We cannot guarantee that this relationship will be maintained in the future or that the supplier will continue to be available to supply merchandise. Our suppliers’ ability to implement acceptable labor practices. Although we have adopted our Terms of Commitment to Ethical Sourcing and use the services of third party audit firms to be diligent in our monitoring of compliance with these terms, we do not have absolute control over the ultimate actions or labor practices of our independent suppliers. Furthermore, we are attempting to lower our reliance on suppliers located in China. As a result, we may do business with suppliers that are not as familiar with our supplier guidelines which may result in temporary noncompliance. The violation of labor or other laws by any of our key independent suppliers or the divergence of an independent supplier’s labor practices from those generally accepted by us as ethical could interrupt or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished merchandise or damage our reputation. Our reliance on one location to distribute goods for our Chico’s, WH|BM and Soma brands and one location to distribute goods for our Boston Proper brand. The distribution functions for the Chico’s, WH|BM and Soma brands are handled from our DC in Winder, Georgia. The distribution function for all sales for the Boston Proper brand is handled from Boston Proper’s DC in Boca Raton, Florida. Any significant interruption in the operation of the facilities at either DC due to natural disasters, accidents, system failures or other unforeseen causes could delay or impair our ability to distribute merchandise to our stores and/or fulfill online or catalog orders, which could cause sales to decline. Other Risks Affecting Our Business Our business is subject to numerous other risks that could materially adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following: Competition. We compete with national, international and local department stores, specialty and discount boutique chains, independent retail boutiques, and catalog and online businesses that market and sell similar lines of merchandise. Many competitors are significantly larger and have greater financial, marketing and other resources and enjoy greater national, regional and local name recognition. In addition to competing for sales, we compete for favorable store locations, lease terms and qualified associates. Increased competition could result in price reductions, increased marketing expenditures and loss of market share. The sustained recessionary conditions over the last several years have resulted in more significant competition as our competitors have lowered prices and engaged in more promotional activity. Compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Our policies, procedures and internal controls are designed to help us comply with all applicable laws, accounting and reporting requirements, regulations and tax requirements, including those imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”), as well as applicable employment laws. Any changes in regulations, the imposition of additional regulations or the enactment of any new legislation that affects employment and labor, trade, product safety, transportation and logistics, health care, tax, privacy, or environmental issues, among other things, may increase the complexity of the regulatory environment in which we operate and the related cost of compliance. Failure to comply with the various laws and regulations as well as changes in laws and regulations could have an adverse impact on our reputation, financial condition or results of operations. Adverse outcomes of litigation matters. We are involved from time to time in litigation and other claims against our business. These matters arise primarily in the ordinary course of business but could raise complex, factual and legal issues, which are subject 13 Table of Contents to multiple risks and uncertainties and could require significant management time. We believe that our current litigation matters will not have a material adverse effect on the results of operations or financial condition. However, our assessment of current litigation could change in light of the discovery of facts with respect to legal actions pending against us, not presently known to us, or determinations by judges, juries or other finders of fact which do not accord with our evaluation of the possible liability or outcome of such litigation as well as additional litigation that is not currently pending. Our ability to retain or recruit key personnel. Our success and ability to properly manage our growth depends to a significant extent upon our ability to attract, develop and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including executive and senior management, and talented merchants. Competition for talented employees within our industry is intense. Recruiting and retaining such personnel and appropriate succession planning are important to our continued and sustained success. War, terrorism or other catastrophes. In the event of war, acts of terrorism or the threat of terrorist attacks, customer traffic in shopping centers and consumer spending could significantly decrease. In addition, local authorities or shopping center management could close in response to any immediate security concern or weather catastrophe such as hurricanes, earthquakes, or tornadoes. Similarly, war, acts of terrorism, threats of terrorist attacks, or a weather catastrophe could severely and adversely affect our National Store Support Center (“NSSC”) campus or our entire supply chain. Our ability to protect our brands’ reputation and intellectual property. Our ability to protect our brands’ reputation is an integral part of our general success strategy and is critical to the overall value of the brands. If we fail to maintain high standards for merchandise quality and integrity, such failures could jeopardize our brands’ reputation. Damage to our reputation as a whole could also cause a loss of consumer and investor confidence. In addition, our trademarks, copyrights, business intelligence, and other intellectual and proprietary rights are important to our success. Others may attempt to imitate our products or obtain or infringe upon our intellectual property rights. Other parties may also claim that some of our products infringe on their trademarks, copyrights, or other intellectual property rights. Stock price volatility. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially in the past and may continue to do so in the future. Future announcements or management discussions concerning us or our competitors, sales and profitability results, quarterly variations in operating results or comparable sales, or changes in earnings estimates by analysts, among other factors, could cause the market price of the common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, stock markets, in general, have experienced extreme price and volume volatility in recent years. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many public companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 14 Table of Contents 