ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We make forward-looking statements in our filings with the SEC and in other oral or written communications. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to be materially different from those indicated (both favorably and unfavorably). These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the risks described below. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. There can be no assurance that we have correctly identified and appropriately assessed all factors affecting our business operations or that the publicly available and other information with respect to these matters is complete and correct. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial also may adversely impact our operations. Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have material adverse effects on the business, financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations depend in part on the effective management of our growth strategies. Our growth strategy which includes brand extensions, square footage expansion, increasing the number of new stores, and increasing our DTC business is dependent upon a number of factors, including: testing of new products, locating suitable store sites, negotiating favorable lease terms, having the infrastructure to address the increased number of stores and the increased demands of a DTC business, sourcing sufficient levels of inventory, hiring and training qualified management level and other associates, generating sufficient operating cash flows to fund the expansion plans, and integrating new stores and a larger DTC business into existing operations. Management of our growth strategy could place increased demands on operational, managerial and administrative resources and may 9 Table of Contents result in us operating the business less effectively, which in turn could cause deterioration in the financial performance of individual stores and/or our DTC business. In addition, to the extent that a number of new store openings are in existing markets, we may experience reduced net sales volumes in previously existing stores in those same markets. Furthermore, the continued effective expansion of our DTC business may draw sales away from individual stores, negatively impacting the net sales volumes at such stores and thus negatively impacting our comparable store sales. There can be no assurance that we will achieve our planned expansion or that such expansion will be profitable or that we will be able to manage our growth effectively. Effective management of the performance of our stores is a key factor in the success of our business. We cannot be assured that any new store that opens will have similar operating results to those of prior stores. New stores may take up to two years to reach planned operating levels due to inefficiencies typically associated with new stores, including demands on operational, managerial and administrative resources. The failure of existing or new stores to perform as predicted could negatively impact our net sales and results of operations and may result in impairment of long-lived assets at our stores. Our ability to develop new concepts and brand extensions is a significant component of our business strategy. A significant portion of our longer term business strategy involves strategic acquisition or organic development and growth of new concepts and brand extensions. Our ability to succeed in new concepts may require significant capital expenditures and management attention. Additionally, any new concept is subject to certain risks including customer acceptance, competition, product differentiation, challenges to economies of scale in merchandise sourcing, and the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. We are currently expanding our Soma target customer audience and continue to invest in development of the brand through marketing, new product launches and the opening of new Soma stores in order to create and maintain brand awareness and create economies of scale, which are integral factors in the success of the brand. Although we believe building brand awareness will attract new customers, we cannot provide assurance that the marketing activities, new product launches and store openings will result in increased sales or profitability in the future for the Soma brand. Accordingly, if we cannot successfully execute our growth strategies for development of the Soma brand, or any other new concepts or brand extensions for that matter, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted. Our results of operations are sensitive to, and may be adversely affected by, general economic conditions and overall consumer confidence. Certain economic conditions affect the level of consumer spending on the merchandise that we offer, including, among others, high unemployment levels, availability of consumer credit, inflation, interest rates, recessionary pressures, energy costs, taxation, and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Disruptions in the overall economy and financial markets tend to reduce consumer confidence in the economy and negatively affect consumers’ spending patterns, which could be harmful to our financial position and results of operations, and may lead us to further decelerate the number and timing of new store openings, relocations, or expansions. Furthermore, declines in consumer spending patterns due to economic downturns may have a more negative effect on apparel retailers than other retailers, particularly in our competitive space, and can negatively affect net sales and profitability. There can be no assurances that government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets will restore consumer confidence, stabilize the markets or increase liquidity and the availability of credit. Our comparable store sales and operating results may fluctuate. Our comparable store sales and overall operating results have fluctuated in the past and are expected to continue to fluctuate in the future. A variety of factors affect comparable store sales and operating results, including changes in fashion trends, changes in our merchandise mix, customer acceptance of merchandise offerings, timing of catalog mailings, expansion of our DTC business, calendar shifts of holiday periods, actions by competitors, new store openings, weather conditions, and general economic conditions. Past comparable store sales or operating results are not an indicator of future results. 10 Table of Contents Our gross margin may be impacted by the sales mix between our brands or within product categories. Gross margins are impacted by the sales mix both from merchandise sales mix within a particular brand and relative sales volumes of the different brands. Certain categories of apparel and accessories tend to generate somewhat higher margins than others within each brand. Thus, a shift in sales mix within a brand can create a significant impact on our overall gross margins. Additionally, the gross margins for the Chico’s and WH|BM brands have historically been higher than at the Soma brand. If sales at Soma grow at a faster pace than at the Chico’s and WH|BM brands, our overall gross margins may be negatively impacted which could in turn have an adverse effect on the overall operating margin and consolidated earnings. Our DTC operations include risks that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our DTC operations are subject to numerous risks, including unanticipated operating problems, reliance on third party computer hardware and software providers, system failures and the need to invest in additional infrastructure. The DTC operations also involve other risks that could have an impact on our results of operations including hiring, retention and training of personnel, increased postage or printing costs, rapid technological change, liability for online content, credit card fraud, risks related to the possible failure of the systems that operate the website and its related support systems, including computer viruses, telecommunication failures and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. Given our business strategy to target sustained growth and increased sales penetration in the DTC area, the risks associated with DTC operations are likely to be of greater significance in fiscal 2010 and future years than in prior years. There can be no assurance that the DTC operations will be able to achieve targeted sales and profitability growth or even remain at their current level. We significantly rely on our ability to implement and maintain our information technology systems. We rely on various information systems to manage our operations and regularly make investments to upgrade, enhance or replace such systems. Any delays or difficulties in transitioning or in integrating new systems with our current systems, or any other disruptions affecting our information systems, could have a material adverse impact on the business. We also use information technology for individually identifiable data, which is regulated at the international, federal and state levels. Privacy and information security laws and regulation changes, and compliance with them may result in cost increases due to system changes and the development of new administrative processes. If we or our associates fail to comply with these laws and regulations or experience a data security breach, our reputation could be damaged, possibly resulting in lost future business, and we could be subjected to fines, penalties, administrative orders and other legal risks as a result of non-compliance. We rely on one location to distribute goods to our stores and fulfill DTC orders. The distribution functions for all of our stores and for our DTC sales are handled from our distribution centers in Winder, Georgia. Any significant interruption in the operation of these facilities due to natural disasters, accidents, system failures or other unforeseen causes could delay or impair our ability to distribute merchandise to our stores and/or fulfill DTC orders, which could cause sales to decline. We regularly review our options to mitigate these risks including contingency plans and back-up relationships with outside providers of distribution services. Our success depends on a high volume of traffic to our stores and the availability of suitable store locations. In order to generate customer traffic, we locate many of our stores in prominent locations within shopping centers that have been or are expected to be successful. We cannot control the development of new shopping centers, the availability or cost of appropriate locations within existing or new shopping centers, or the success of individual shopping centers. Furthermore, factors beyond our control impact shopping center traffic, such as general economic conditions, weather conditions, consumer acceptance of new or existing shopping centers, regional demographic shifts, and consumer spending levels. Our sales are partly dependent on a high volume of shopping center traffic and any decline in such shopping center traffic, whether because of the slowdown in the economy, a falloff in the popularity of shopping centers among our target customers, or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 11 Table of Contents Our business fluctuates on a seasonal basis. Our business is comprised of two distinct selling seasons; spring and fall. During the peaks of these seasons, higher inventory levels, increased marketing costs, availability of temporary personnel, and other factors may impact our results. Lower than expected sales or profit margins during these periods could materially affect our financial condition or results of operations. Our inability to remain current with fashion trends and introduce new products successfully could negatively impact our financial results. Our success is principally dependent upon our ability to gauge the fashion tastes of our customers and to provide merchandise that satisfies customer demand in a timely manner. Misjudgments or unanticipated fashion changes could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that new products will be met with the same level of acceptance as in the past. The failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately and in a timely manner to changes in fashion trends or demands, could lead to lower sales, excess inventories and more frequent markdowns or inventory write-downs, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Our inability to maintain proper inventory levels could have a negative effect on our results of operations. We maintain inventory levels in our stores and distribution centers that we anticipate will be in line with projected demand. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs or the sale of excess inventory at discounted or closeout prices. These events could significantly harm our operating results and impair the image of one or more of our brands. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our merchandise, particularly higher volume styles, or if our suppliers fail to supply quality products in a timely manner, we may experience inventory shortages, which might result in missed sales, negatively impact customer relationships, diminish brand loyalty and result in lost revenues, any of which could harm our business. Our suppliers may not be able to provide goods in a timely manner and meet quality standards. We have no material long-term or exclusive contracts with any apparel or accessory manufacturer or supplier. Our business depends on our network of suppliers and on continued good relations with our suppliers. A key supplier may become unable to address our merchandising needs due to payment terms, cost of manufacturing, adequacy of manufacturing capacity, quality control, and timeliness of delivery. If we were unexpectedly required to change suppliers or if a key supplier was unable to supply acceptable merchandise in sufficient quantities on acceptable terms, we could experience a significant disruption in the supply of merchandise. We could also experience operational difficulties with our suppliers, such as reductions in the availability of production capacity, errors in complying with merchandise specifications, insufficient quality control, shortages of fabrics or other raw materials, failures to meet production deadlines or increases in manufacturing costs. In fact, manufacturing costs may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors, including natural resources, increased freight costs, increased labor costs, weather conditions, inflationary pressures from emerging markets and currency fluctuations. In the future, we may not be able to pass all or a portion of such higher raw materials or labor prices on to our customers. Approximately 13% of total purchases in fiscal 2009 and 14% of total purchases in 2008 were made from one supplier. We cannot guarantee that this relationship will be maintained in the future or that the supplier will continue to be available to supply merchandise. A significant disruption in the supply of merchandise from this, or any other key supplier, could have a material adverse impact on our operations. Competition could negatively impact our results. We compete with national, international and local department stores, specialty and discount store chains, independent retail stores and online businesses that market and sell similar lines of merchandise. Many competitors are significantly larger and have greater financial, marketing and other resources and enjoy greater national, regional and local name recognition. In addition to competing for sales, we compete for favorable store locations, lease terms and qualified associates. Increased competition could result in price reductions, increased marketing expenditures and loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition 12 Table of Contents and results of operations. The recent recessionary conditions have resulted in more significant competition as our competitors have lowered prices and engaged in more promotional activity. The inability of our suppliers to obtain credit may cause us to experience delays in obtaining merchandise. We rely on independent suppliers for producing our merchandise. Many of these suppliers rely on working capital financing to finance their operations. Although the credit market has improved since last year, lenders have still maintained tightened credit standards and terms. To the extent any of our suppliers are unable to obtain adequate credit or their borrowing costs increase, we may experience delays in obtaining merchandise, the suppliers may increase their prices or they may modify payment terms in a manner that is unfavorable to us. We rely significantly on foreign sources of production. The majority of our clothing and accessories is produced outside the United States, the percentage has been growing, and this trend may continue. As a result, our business remains subject to the various risks of doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad, such as: (i) political instability; (ii) imposition of new legislation relating to import quotas that may limit the quantity of goods that may be imported into the United States from countries in which we do business; (iii) imposition of new or increased duties, taxes, and other charges on imports; (iv) foreign exchange rate challenges and pressures presented by implementation of U.S. monetary policy; (v) local business practice and political issues, including issues relating to compliance with our Terms of Commitment to Ethical Sourcing and domestic or international labor standards; (vi) transportation disruptions, and (vii) seizure or detention of goods by U.S. Customs authorities. In particular, we source a substantial portion of our merchandise from China. A change in the Chinese currency, other policies affecting labor laws or the costs of goods in China could negatively impact our merchandise costs. We cannot predict whether or not any of the foreign countries in which our clothing and accessories are currently, or in the future may be produced, will be subject to import restrictions by the United States government, including the likelihood, type or effect of any trade retaliation. Trade restrictions, including increased tariffs, or more restrictive quotas, including safeguard quotas, or anything similar, applicable to apparel items could affect the importation of apparel generally and, in that event, could increase the cost, or reduce the supply, of apparel available to us and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are, however, a member of the U.S. Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (“C-TPAT”) supply chain security program and the U.S. Customs Importer Self Assessment (“ISA”) trade compliance program. Both programs afford certain trade benefits by U.S. Customs that may mitigate some of these risks. In addition, the laws and customs protecting intellectual property rights in many foreign countries can be substantially different and potentially less protective of intellectual property than those in the United States. We have taken numerous steps to protect our intellectual property overseas, but cannot guarantee that such rights are not infringed. The intentional or unintentional infringement on our intellectual property rights by one of our suppliers or any other person or entity, could diminish the uniqueness of our products, tarnish our trademarks, or damage our reputation. Although we have adopted our Terms of Commitment to Ethical Sourcing and use the services of a third party auditory to be diligent in our monitoring of compliance with these terms, we do not have absolute control over the ultimate actions or labor practices of our independent suppliers. The violation of labor or other laws by one of our key independent suppliers or the divergence of an independent supplier’s labor practices from those generally accepted by us as ethical could interrupt or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished merchandise or damage our reputation. Changes in accounting principles, interpretations and practices may impact our results. Financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. These principles can be complex for certain aspects of our business and may involve subjective judgments. A change in current accounting standards could impact our financial condition or results of operations. 13 Table of Contents A failure in the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting could adversely impact our business. Our system of internal controls over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance that the objectives of an effective financial reporting control system are met. However, any system of internal controls is subject to inherent limitations and the design of controls will not provide absolute assurance that all objectives will be met. This includes the possibility that controls may be inappropriately circumvented or overridden, that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that misstatements due to errors or fraud may not be prevented or detected. Any failure in the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting could have a material effect on financial reporting or cause us to fail to meet reporting obligations, and could negatively impact investor perceptions. We may be subject to adverse outcomes of litigation matters. We are involved from time to time in litigation and other claims against our business. These matters arise primarily in the ordinary course of business but could raise complex, factual and legal issues, which are subject to multiple risks and uncertainties and could require significant management time. We believe that our current litigation matters will not have a material adverse effect on the results of operations or financial condition. However, our assessment of current litigation could change in light of the discovery of facts with respect to legal actions pending against us not presently known to us or determinations by judges, juries or other finders of fact which do not accord with our evaluation of the possible liability or outcome of such litigation and additional litigation that is not currently pending could have a more significant impact on our business and operations. The ongoing expansion of our National Store Support Center may impact our financial condition. We anticipate that our cash and marketable securities on hand and cash from operations will be adequate to cover the necessary costs of construction for our ongoing NSSC expansion. However, in the event that such cash and marketable securities on hand and cash from operations is not sufficient to meet our capital expenditures needs, we may need to draw on our line of credit or seek other financing in order to fund the costs of expansion of the NSSC campus. In addition, such activities could potentially result in temporary disruptions of operations or a diversion of management’s attention and resources. We may be unable to retain key personnel. Our success and ability to properly manage our growth depends to a significant extent both upon the performance of our current executive and senior management team and our ability to attract, hire, motivate, and retain additional qualified management personnel in the future. If we cannot recruit and retain such additional personnel or we lose the services of any of our executive officers, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations War, terrorism or other catastrophes may negatively impact our results. In the event of war, acts of terrorism or the threat of terrorist attacks, customer traffic in shopping centers and consumer spending could significantly decrease. In addition, local authorities or shopping center management could close in response to any immediate security concern or weather catastrophe such as hurricanes, earthquakes, or tornadoes. Similarly, war, acts of terrorism, threats of terrorist attacks, or a weather catastrophe could severely and adversely affect our NSSC campus or distribution centers which, in turn, could have a material adverse impact on our business. Recognition of an impairment charge on our goodwill or intangible assets could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized, but rather are tested for impairment annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. In addition to the annual review, management uses certain indicators to evaluate whether the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets may not be recoverable, such as (i) market capitalization in relation to the book value of stockholders’ equity, (ii) current-period operating or cash flow declines combined with a history of operating cash flow declines or a forecast that 14 Table of Contents demonstrates continuing declines in cash flow or inability to improve operations to forecasted levels, or (iii) a significant adverse change in business climate that could affect the value of reporting units. The significant estimates and assumptions used by management in assessing the recoverability of goodwill and other intangible assets include estimated future cash flows, the discount rate, and other factors. The estimates of future cash flows, based on reasonable and supportable assumptions and projections, require management’s subjective judgment. Depending on the assumptions and estimates used, the estimated future cash flows projected in the evaluations of long-lived assets can vary within a range of outcomes. Any changes in these estimates or assumptions could result in an impairment charge. If we determine in the future that impairments have occurred, we will write-off the impaired portion of 1) goodwill, 2) the WH|BM trademark asset or 3) the Minnesota territorial rights, any of which could substantially and negatively impact our results of operations. Our failure to protect our brand reputation and/or intellectual property could have an adverse effect on our brand images. Our ability to protect our brands’ reputation is an integral part of our general success strategy and is critical to the overall value of the brands. Maintaining and positioning these brands is an on-going investment for us and our continued investment in customer research and promotional venues will be essential. Additionally, if we fail to maintain high standards for merchandise quality and integrity, such failures could jeopardize the brands’ reputation and have a negative effect on our business. Damage to our reputation as a whole could also cause a loss of consumer and investor confidence and could have a material effect on our business. We believe that our trademarks, copyrights, and other intellectual and proprietary rights are important to our success. Even though we take action to establish, register and protect our trademarks, copyrights, and other intellectual and proprietary rights, there can be no assurance that we will be successful or that others will not imitate our products or infringe upon our intellectual property rights. In addition, other parties may claim that some of our products infringe on their trademarks, copyrights, or other intellectual property rights. To the extent such claims are successful, sales could decline and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially in the past and there can be no assurance that the market price of our common stock will not continue to fluctuate significantly. Future announcements or management discussions concerning us or our competitors, sales and profitability results, quarterly variations in operating results or comparable store net sales, or changes in earnings estimates by analysts, among other factors, could cause the market price of the common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, stock markets, in general, have experienced extreme price and volume volatility in recent years. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many public companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Like other seasoned issuers, from time to time we receive written comments from the staff of the SEC regarding periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. As of the date of this filing, there were no comments that remain unresolved. 15 Table of Contents 