Item 1A. Risk Factors This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking information based on our current expectations. Because our actual results may differ materially from any forward-looking statements that we make or that are made on our behalf, this section includes a discussion of important factors that could affect our actual future results, including, but not limited to, our capital resources, the progress and timing of our clinical programs, the safety and efficacy of our product candidates, regulatory filings and commercialization activities, the potential clinical benefits and market potential of our product candidates, commercial market estimates, future development efforts, patent protection, effects of healthcare reform, reliance on third parties, and other risks set forth below. Risks Related to Our Financial Position and Capital Requirements We have a history of losses and anticipate that we will incur continued losses for the foreseeable future. We have not been profitable in any of the last five fiscal years. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, we reported losses of approximately $249.6 million, $30.6 million and $18.5 million, respectively. Substantially all of our operating losses resulted from costs incurred in connection with our research and development programs, from general and administrative costs associated with our operations, and from non-cash losses on changes in the fair value of warrant derivative liabilities. We expect to incur additional and increasing operating losses over the next several years. These losses, combined with expected future losses, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our cash resources, stockholders’ (deficit) equity and working capital. We expect our research and development expenses to significantly increase in connection with our ongoing Phase III clinical trials for AMR101 and other studies for our product candidates. In addition, if we obtain regulatory approval for any of our product candidates, we may incur significant sales, marketing, 16 Table of Contents in-licensing and outsourced manufacturing expenses, as well as continued research and development expenses. As a result, we expect to continue to incur significant and increasing operating losses for the foreseeable future. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing pharmaceutical products, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if at all. We have not generated any revenue from our product candidates and may never be profitable. Our ability to become profitable depends upon our ability to generate revenue. Unless and until marketing approval is obtained from either the FDA or European Medicines Evaluation Agency, which we refer to as the EMEA, for any of our product candidates, or we are otherwise able to acquire rights to products or product candidates that have received regulatory approval or are at an advanced stage of development and can be readily commercialized, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to attain profitability. In addition, our ability to generate profits after any FDA or EMEA approval of our product candidates is subject to our ability to contract for the manufacture of commercial quantities of our product candidates at acceptable cost levels and establish sales and marketing capabilities or identify and enter into one or more strategic collaborations to effectively market and sell our product candidates. Even if one of our product candidates is approved for commercial sale, any approved product candidate may not gain market acceptance or achieve commercial success. In addition, we would anticipate incurring significant costs associated with commercializing any approved product. We may not achieve profitability soon after generating product sales, if ever. If we are unable to generate product revenues, we will not become profitable and may be unable to continue operations without continued funding. Our ability to generate revenues depends on obtaining regulatory approvals for our products. In order to successfully commercialize a product, we or our potential partners will be required to conduct tests and successfully complete clinical trials needed in order to meet regulatory requirements and to obtain applicable regulatory approvals. The costs of developing and obtaining regulatory approvals for pharmaceutical products can be substantial. Our ability to commercialize any of our products in development is dependent upon the success of development efforts in clinical studies. If these clinical trials fail to produce satisfactory results, or if we are unable to maintain the financial and operational capability to complete these development efforts, we may be unable to generate revenues. Even if we obtain regulatory approvals, the timing or scope of any approvals may prohibit or reduce our ability to commercialize products successfully. For example, if the approval process takes too long, we may miss market opportunities and give other companies the ability to develop competing products or establish market dominance. Additionally, the terms of any approvals may not have the scope or breadth needed for us to commercialize products successfully. Our historical financial results do not form an accurate basis for assessing our current business. As a consequence of our decision in 2009 to focus on product development for cardiovascular indications and the discontinuation of development work related to other product candidates, our historical financial results do not form an accurate basis upon which investors should base their assessment of our business and prospects. We are now completing Phase III clinical trials for AMR101 and therefore, our research and development expenses associated with these trials will decrease in 2011, however, if we elect to conduct an outcomes study, our clinical trial costs could increase substantially from current levels. Accordingly, our historical financial results reflect a substantially different business from that currently being conducted. In addition, we have not yet demonstrated an ability to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize a product candidate. Consequently, any predictions about our future performance may not be as accurate as they could be if we had a history of successfully developing and commercializing pharmaceutical products. 17 Table of Contents The loss of key personnel could have an adverse effect on our business. We are highly dependent upon the efforts of our senior management. The loss of the services of one or more members of senior management could have a material adverse effect on us. As a small company with a streamlined management structure, the departure of any key person could have a significant impact and would be potentially disruptive to our business until such time as a suitable replacement is hired. Furthermore, because of the specialized nature of our business, as our business plan progresses we will be highly dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified scientific, technical and key management personnel. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in the areas of our activities. In this environment, we may not be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the development of our business, particularly if we do not achieve profitability. The failure to recruit key scientific, technical and management personnel would be detrimental to our ability to implement our business plan. We will require substantial additional resources to fund our operations and to develop our product candidates. If we cannot find additional capital resources, we will have difficulty in operating as a going concern and growing our business. We currently operate with limited resources. On December 31, 2010, we had a cash balance of approximately $31.4 million. In January 2011, we completed an equity offering from which we received approximately $98.7 million in net proceeds. Based upon current business activities and existing cash resources, we forecast having sufficient cash to enable us to file an NDA requesting approval to market and sell AMR101 and to prepare for the commercialization of, but potentially not to commercialize, AMR101. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the: • progress of pre-clinical development and laboratory testing and clinical trials, including outcome study costs; • time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; • number of product candidates we pursue; • costs involved in filing and prosecuting patent applications and enforcing or defending patent claims; and • the costs associated with commercializing our product candidates if they receive regulatory approval, including the cost and timing of developing sales and marketing capabilities, or entering into strategic collaboration with others relating to the commercialization of our product candidates. Our ability to execute our business strategy and sustain our infrastructure at our currently planned levels will be impacted by whether or not we have sufficient funds. Depending on market conditions and our ability to maintain financial stability, we may not have access to additional funds on reasonable terms or at all. Any inability to obtain additional funds when needed would have a material adverse effect on our business and on our ability to operate on an ongoing basis. The continued negative economic conditions would likely negatively impact Amarin’s ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms. While we expect to seek additional funding through public or private financings, we may not be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, the terms of any financings may be dilutive to, or otherwise adversely affect, holders of our outstanding securities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to access equity or credit markets in order to finance our current operations or expand development programs for any of our product candidates, or that there will not be a further deterioration in financial markets and confidence in economies. We may also have to scale back or further restructure our operations. If we are unable to obtain additional funding on a timely basis, we may be required to curtail or terminate some or all of our research or development programs. 18 Table of Contents Raising additional capital may cause dilution to our existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights. We may seek additional capital through a combination of private and public equity offerings, debt financings and collaboration, strategic and licensing arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, your ownership interest will be diluted, and the terms may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect your rights as a stockholder. As of December 31, 2010, there were warrants outstanding for the purchase of up to 34,024,132 American Depository Shares, or ADSs, each representing one of our ordinary shares, with a weighted average exercise price of $1.50 per share. We may issue additional warrants to purchase ADSs or ordinary shares in connection with any future financing we may conduct. Further, as of December 31, 2010 we also had outstanding stock options to purchase 10,027,584 ADSs at an average exercise price of $2.69 per share. The exercise of any of these options or warrants will further dilute your ownership interest. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. If we raise additional funds through collaboration, strategic alliance and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies or product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. Risks Related to the Development and Commercialization of our Product Candidates We may not be successful in developing or marketing future products if we cannot meet the extensive regulatory requirements of the FDA and other regulatory agencies for quality, safety and efficacy. The success of our research and development efforts is dependent in part upon our ability, and the ability of our partners or potential partners, to meet regulatory requirements in the jurisdictions where we or our partners or potential partners ultimately intend to sell such products once approved. The development, manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical products are subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the United States, the European Union, Japan and elsewhere. In the United States, the FDA generally requires pre-clinical testing and clinical trials of each drug to establish its safety and efficacy and extensive pharmaceutical development to ensure its quality before its introduction into the market. Regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions impose similar requirements. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals is lengthy and expensive and the issuance of such approvals is uncertain. The commencement and rate of completion of clinical trials and the timing of obtaining marketing approval from regulatory authorities may be delayed by many factors, including: • the lack of efficacy during clinical trials; • the inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of qualified materials under current good manufacturing practices for use in clinical trials; • slower than expected rates of patient recruitment; • the inability to observe patients adequately after treatment; • changes in regulatory requirements for clinical or preclinical studies; • the emergence of unforeseen safety issues in clinical or preclinical studies; • delay, suspension, or termination of a trial by the institutional review board responsible for overseeing the study at a particular study site; 19 Table of Contents • unanticipated changes to the requirements imposed by regulatory authorities on the extent, nature or timing of studies to be conducted on quality, safety and efficacy; and • government or regulatory delays or “clinical holds” requiring suspension or termination of a trial. Even if we obtain positive results from early stage pre-clinical or clinical trials, we may not achieve the same success in future trials. Similarly, positive results from studies in Japan of the active ingredient in AMR101 may not result in the same success in trials outside of Japan. Clinical trials that we or potential partners conduct may not provide sufficient safety and efficacy data to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for product candidates. The failure of clinical trials to demonstrate safety and efficacy for our desired indications could harm the development of that product candidate as well as other product candidates, and our business and results of operations would suffer. For example, the efficacy results of our AMR101 Phase III clinical trials for the treatment of Huntington’s disease were negative, as a result of which we revised our clinical strategy and shifted our focus of AMR101 towards the treatment of cardiovascular disease. Any approvals that are obtained may be limited in scope, may require additional post-approval studies or may require the addition of labeling statements, such as a contraindication or a “black box” warning that the drug carries significant risks of serious or life-threatening adverse effects or other requirements. Any of these or similar circumstances could adversely affect our ability to earn revenues from the sale of such products. Even in circumstances where products are approved by a regulatory body for sale, the regulatory or legal requirements may change over time, or new safety or efficacy information may be identified concerning a product, which may lead to the withdrawal of a product from the market or similar use restrictions. The discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or manufacturer may result in restrictions on that product or manufacturer, including withdrawal of the product from the market, which would have a negative impact on our potential revenue stream. Although our two Phase 3 clinical trials are the subject of SPAs with FDA, there can be no assurance that AMR101 will be approved by FDA, even if the results from these clinical trials are positive. The MARINE trial was conducted under a Special Protocol Assessment, or SPA, with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA. The ANCHOR trial is currently being conducted under a separate SPA. An SPA is an evaluation by the FDA of a protocol with the goal of reaching an agreement that the Phase III trial protocol design, clinical endpoints, and statistical analyses are acceptable to support regulatory approval. The FDA agreed that, based on the information we submitted to the agency, the design and planned analysis of the MARINE and ANCHOR trials adequately address the objectives necessary to support a regulatory submission. An SPA is generally binding upon the FDA unless a substantial scientific issue essential to determining safety or efficacy is identified after the testing begins. Although we are not aware of any such issue, there is no assurance that the FDA will ultimately consider either of our SPAs to be binding. Moreover, any change to a study protocol can invalidate an SPA. If FDA does not consider either of the SPAs to be binding, the agency could assert that additional studies or data are required to support a regulatory submission. If approved, our products will be subject to extensive post-approval government regulation. Once a product is approved, numerous post-approval requirements apply. Among other things, the holder of an approved NDA is subject to periodic and other monitoring and reporting obligations enforced by the FDA and other regulatory bodies, including obligations to monitor and report adverse events and instances of the failure of a product to meet the specifications in the approved application. Application holders must also submit advertising and other promotional material to regulatory authorities and report on ongoing clinical trials. With respect to sales and marketing activities by our partners, advertising and promotional materials must comply with FDA rules in addition to other potentially applicable federal and local laws in the United States and 20 Table of Contents in other countries. In the United States, the distribution of product samples to physicians must comply with the requirements of the U.S. Prescription Drug Marketing Act. Manufacturing facilities remain subject to FDA inspection and must continue to adhere to the FDA’s current good manufacturing practice requirements. Application holders must obtain FDA approval for product and manufacturing changes, depending on the nature of the change. Sales, marketing, and scientific/educational grant programs must also comply with the U.S. Medicare-Medicaid Anti-Fraud and Abuse Act, as amended, the U.S. False Claims Act, as amended and similar state laws. Pricing and rebate programs must comply with the U.S. Medicaid rebate requirements of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990, as amended. If products are made available to authorized users of the U.S. Federal Supply Schedule of the General Services Administration, additional laws and requirements apply. All of these activities are also potentially subject to U.S. federal and state consumer protection and unfair competition laws. Similar requirements exist in all of these areas in other countries. Depending on the circumstances, failure to meet these post-approval requirements can result in criminal prosecution, fines or other penalties, injunctions, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, denial or withdrawal of pre-marketing product approvals, or refusal to allow us to enter into supply contracts, including government contracts. In addition, even if we or our potential partners comply with FDA and other requirements, new information regarding the safety or effectiveness of a product could lead the FDA to modify or withdraw a product approval. Adverse regulatory action, whether pre- or post-approval, can potentially lead to product liability claims and increase our product liability exposure. We or our potential partners must also compete against other products in qualifying for reimbursement under applicable third party payment and insurance programs. We may be dependent upon the success of a limited range of products. If development efforts for our products are not successful for any indications or if they are not approved by the FDA, or if adequate demand for our products is not generated, our business will be materially and adversely affected. Even if we are able to develop additional products from our research and development efforts, the range of products we will be able to commercialize may be limited. This could restrict our ability to respond to adverse business conditions. If we are not successful in developing any future product or products, or if there is not adequate demand for any such products or the market for such product develops less rapidly than we anticipate, we may not have the ability to shift our resources to the development of alternative products. As a result, the limited range of products we intend to develop could constrain our ability to generate revenues and achieve profitability. Even if our products are approved, we may not be able to compete effectively against our competitors’ pharmaceutical products. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. If we are successful in completing the development of any of our products, we may face competition to the extent other pharmaceutical companies have on the market or are able to develop products for the treatment of similar indications. Potential competitors in this market include companies with greater resources and name recognition than we have. Furthermore, to the extent we are able to acquire or develop additional marketable products in the future, such products will compete with a variety of other products within the United States or elsewhere, possibly including established drugs and major brand names. Competitive factors, including generic competition, could force us to lower prices or could result in reduced sales. In addition, new products developed by others could emerge as competitors to our future products. Products based on new technologies or new drugs could render our products obsolete or uneconomical. Our potential competitors both in the United States and Europe include large, well-established pharmaceutical companies, specialty pharmaceutical sales and marketing companies and specialized cardiovascular treatment companies These companies include GlaxoSmithKline, which currently markets Lovaza, a prescription-only omega-3 fatty acid indicated for patients with very high triglycerides, and Abbott 21 Table of Contents Laboratories, which currently markets Tricor and Trilipix for the treatment of very high triglycerides and mixed dyslipidemia. In addition, we may compete with universities and other institutions involved in the development of technologies and products that may compete with ours. Many of our competitors will likely have greater resources than we do, including financial, product development, marketing, personnel and other resources. Our projected revenue streams for our product candidates, if approved, could be significantly eroded if a competing product obtains marketing approval, particularly if this approval is obtained before the approval of our product candidate. The success of our future products will also depend in large part on the willingness of physicians to prescribe these products to their patients. Our future products may compete against products that have achieved broad recognition and acceptance among medical professionals. In order to achieve an acceptable level of prescriptions for our future products, we must be able to meet the needs of both the medical community and end users with respect to cost, efficacy and other factors. Our current lead product candidate is a prescription-only omega-3 fatty acid. Omega-3 fatty acids are also marketed by other companies as non-prescription dietary supplements. As a result, our lead product candidate, if approved, may be subject to non-prescription competition and consumer substitution. Our current lead product candidate, AMR101, is a prescription-only omega-3 fatty acid. Omega-3 fatty acids are naturally occurring substances in various foods, including fatty fish. Omega-3 fatty acids are also marketed by others as non-prescription dietary supplements. We believe the pharmaceutical grade purity of AMR101, if approved, will have a superior therapeutic profile to naturally occurring omega-3 fatty acids and dietary supplements. However, we cannot be sure physicians will view AMR101, if approved, as superior. To the extent the price of AMR101, if approved, is significantly higher than the prices of commercially available omega-3 fatty acids marketed by other companies as dietary supplements, physicians may recommend these commercial alternatives instead of writing prescriptions for AMR101 or patients may elect on their own to take commercially available omega-3 fatty acids. Either of these outcomes may adversely impact our results of operations by limiting how we price our product. In order to commercialize any future product that is approved for marketing, we may need to find a collaborative partner to help with marketing and sales. Our strategy for commercializing currently anticipates that we will enter into collaborative arrangements with one or more pharmaceutical companies that have product development resources and expertise, established distribution systems and direct sales forces to successfully market our products. If so, we will be reliant on one or more of these strategic partners to generate revenue on our behalf. In the event that we are not successful in finding a suitable partner, we may choose to commercialize AMR101 ourselves. This would require that we build a substantial commercialization infrastructure in order to compete with larger companies with established marketing and sales capabilities. We may not be successful in finding a collaborative partner to help market and sell our products, or may be delayed in doing so, in which case we would not receive revenue or royalties on the timeframe and to the extent that we currently anticipate. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators and these collaborations are complex and time-consuming to negotiate and document. We may not be able to negotiate collaborations on acceptable terms, or at all. If that were to occur, we may have to curtail the development of a particular product candidate, reduce or delay its development program or one or more of our other development programs, delay its potential commercialization or reduce the scope of our sales or marketing activities, or increase our expenditures and undertake development or commercialization activities at our own expense. If we elect to increase our expenditures to fund development or commercialization activities on our own, we will need to obtain additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If we cannot raise sufficient funds, we will not be able to bring our product candidates to market and generate product revenue. 22 Table of Contents For example, in October 2009, we announced our heightened strategic and operating focus on cardiovascular disease and our cessation of research and development of product candidates to treat central nervous system disorders. Subsequent to October 2009, we did not receive any acceptable offers to acquire, out-license or otherwise continue the development of any of these product candidates to treat central nervous system disorders. Potential technological changes in our field of business create considerable uncertainty. We are engaged in the biopharmaceutical field, which is characterized by extensive research efforts and rapid technological progress. New developments in research are expected to continue at a rapid pace in both industry and academia. We cannot assure you that research and discoveries by others will not render some or all of our programs or product candidates uncompetitive or obsolete. Our business strategy is based in part upon new and unproven technologies to the development of biopharmaceutical products for the treatment of cardiovascular diseases. We cannot assure you that unforeseen problems will not develop with these technologies or applications or that any commercially feasible products will ultimately be developed by us. We are subject to potential product liability. Prior to 2005, we had commercial revenue and remain subject to the potential risk of product liability claims relating to the manufacturing and marketing of our former products during the period prior to their divestiture. Any person who is injured as a result of using one of our former products during our period of ownership may have a product liability claim against us without having to prove that we were at fault. In addition, we could be subject to product liability claims by persons who took part in clinical trials involving our current or former development stage products. A successful claim brought against us could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may become subject to product liability claims as a result of our prior sales and marketing activities related to Permax. Amarin was responsible for the sales and marketing of Permax® (pergolide mesylate), as an adjunctive treatment for Parkinson’s disease, from May 2001 until February 2004. On May 17, 2001, Amarin acquired the U.S. sales and marketing rights to Permax from Elan Corporation, or Elan. An affiliate of Elan had previously obtained the licensing rights to Permax from Eli Lilly and Company in 1993. Eli Lilly originally obtained approval for Permax on December 30, 1988, and has been responsible for the manufacture and supply of Permax since that date. On February 25, 2004, Amarin sold its U.S. subsidiary, Amarin Pharmaceuticals, Inc., including the rights to Permax, to Valeant. On March 29, 2007, the FDA announced that the manufacturers of pergolide drug products would voluntarily remove these drug products, including Permax, from the market because of the risk of serious damage to patients’ heart valves. Further information about the removal of Permax and other pergolide drug products is available on the FDA’s website. Six cases alleging claims related to cardiac valvulopathy and Permax were filed in April 2008 in the United States and currently remain pending. Eli Lilly, Valeant, Amarin Pharmaceuticals (sold to Valeant in 2004 as described above) and unidentified parties are named as defendants in these cases and are defending against the claims and allegations. Based on our review of the online docket reports for these cases, all six appear to be in some stage of settlement, although it's not clear which, if any, have been dismissed or remain pending. To date, Amarin has not been named as a defendant or served with the complaints from these cases. 23 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Reliance on Third Parties We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet established deadlines for the completion of such clinical trials. Our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities. However, if we sponsor clinical trials, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trial. Moreover, the FDA requires us to comply with standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, for conducting, recording, and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity and confidentiality of trial participants are protected. Our reliance on third parties that we do not control does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. Furthermore, these third parties may also have relationships with other entities, some of which may be our competitors. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be delayed in obtaining regulatory approvals for our product candidates and may be delayed in our efforts to successfully commercialize our product candidates for targeted diseases. Our supply of products for clinical trials and ultimately for commercial supply is dependent upon relationships with manufacturers and key suppliers. We have no in-house manufacturing capacity and, to the extent we are successful in completing the development of our product candidates and/or acquiring or developing other marketable products in the future, we will be obliged to rely on contract manufacturers. We cannot assure you that we will successfully manufacture any product we may develop, either independently or under manufacturing arrangements, if any, with third party manufacturers. Moreover, if any manufacturer should cease doing business with us or experience delays, shortages of supply or excessive demands on their capacity, we may not be able to obtain adequate quantities of product in a timely manner, or at all. Manufacturers, and in certain situations their suppliers, are required to comply with current NDA commitments and good manufacturing practices requirements enforced by the FDA, and similar requirements of other countries. The failure by a manufacturer to comply with these requirements could affect its ability to provide us with product. Any manufacturing problem, natural disaster affecting manufacturing facilities, or the loss of a contract manufacturer could be disruptive to our operations and result in lost sales. Additionally, we will be reliant on third parties to supply the raw materials needed to manufacture our potential products. Any reliance on suppliers may involve several risks, including a potential inability to obtain critical materials and reduced control over production costs, delivery schedules, reliability and quality. Any unanticipated disruption to future contract manufacture caused by problems at suppliers could delay shipment of products, increase our cost of goods sold and result in lost sales. If this single supplier were unable to supply us with adequate supply of ethyl-EPA it could have a material adverse affect on our ability to commercialize AMR101. In the past and currently, we purchase all supplies of the bulk compound (ethyl-EPA), which constitutes the only pharmaceutically active ingredient of AMR101, from a single supplier with a single manufacturing facility located in Japan. While we have contractual freedom to source this ingredient elsewhere, our agreement with our current supplier includes minimum purchase obligations. Moreover, there is no guarantee we will either be successful in identifying alternative supplier(s) or that these manufacturers will be qualified to manufacture the product to our specifications or that such future supplier(s) will have the manufacturing capacity to meet future requirements. All such suppliers are subject to regulatory approval. We cannot assure you that any alternative supplier will have the necessary capacity to meet our requirements or that we can contract with any such manufacturer on acceptable terms or that any such alternative supplier will not require capital investment from us in order for them to meet our requirements. 24 Table of Contents We do not currently have the capability to undertake marketing or sales of any potential products. We have invested very little in marketing or product sales resources. We cannot assure you that we will be able to acquire such resources. We cannot assure you that we will successfully market any product we may develop, either independently or under marketing arrangements, if any, with other companies. To the extent that we enter into contractual relationships with other companies to market our products, if any, the success of such products may depend on the success of securing and maintaining such contractual relationships and the efforts of those other companies (and any subcontractors they engage). We have limited personnel to oversee outsourced contract manufacturing, clinical testing and the regulatory approval process. It is likely that we will also need to hire additional personnel skilled in the manufacturing, clinical testing and regulatory compliance process if we develop additional product candidates with commercial potential. We do not currently have the capability to conduct clinical testing in-house and do not currently have plans to develop such a capability. We outsource our clinical testing to contract research organizations. We currently have a limited number of employees and certain other outside consultants who oversee the contract research organizations involved in clinical testing of our compounds. Legislative or regulatory reform of the health care system in the United States and foreign jurisdictions may affect our ability to profitably sell our products, if approved. Our ability to commercialize our future products successfully, alone or with collaborators will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the products will be available from government and health administration authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payors. The continuing efforts of the U.S. and foreign governments, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of health care services to contain or reduce health care costs may adversely affect our ability to set prices for our products which we believe are fair, and our ability to generate revenues and achieve and maintain profitability. Specifically, in both the United States and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the health care system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. Congress has passed America’s Affordable Health Choices Act of 2009 and is considering a number of proposals that are intended to reduce or limit the growth of health care costs and which could significantly transform the market for pharmaceuticals products. We expect further federal and state proposals and health care reforms to continue to be proposed by legislators, which could limit the prices that can be charged for the products we develop and may limit our commercial opportunity. In the United States, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, also called the Medicare Modernization Act, or MMA, changed the way Medicare covers and pays for pharmaceutical products. The legislation expanded Medicare coverage for drug purchases by the elderly and introduced a new reimbursement methodology based on average sales prices for drugs. In addition, this legislation provided authority for limiting the number of drugs that will be covered in any therapeutic class. As a result of this legislation and the expansion of federal coverage of drug products, we expect that there will be additional pressure to contain and reduce costs. These cost reduction initiatives and other provisions of this legislation could decrease the coverage and price that we receive for any approved products and could seriously harm our business. While the MMA applies only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates, and any reduction in reimbursement that results from the MMA may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. The continuing efforts of government and other third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care through various means may limit our commercial opportunity. It will be time consuming and expensive for us to go through the process of seeking reimbursement from Medicare and private payors. Our products may not 25 Table of Contents be considered cost effective, and government and third-party private health insurance coverage and reimbursement may not be available to patients for any of our future products or sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a competitive and profitable basis. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by the MMA and additional prescription drug coverage legislation, by the possible effect of this legislation on amounts that private insurers will pay and by other health care reforms that may be enacted or adopted in the future. In addition, increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States will continue to put pressure on the pricing of pharmaceutical products. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we or any potential collaborators could receive for any of our future products and could adversely affect our profitability. In some foreign countries, including major markets in the European Union and Japan, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take six to 12 months or longer after the receipt of regulatory marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical study that compares the cost-effectiveness of our product candidates to other available therapies. Such pharmacoeconomic studies can be costly and the results uncertain. Our business could be harmed if reimbursement of our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property We are dependent on patents, proprietary rights and confidentiality. Because of the significant time and expense involved in developing new products and obtaining regulatory approvals, it is very important to obtain patent and trade secret protection for new technologies, products and processes. Our ability to successfully implement our business plan will depend in large part on our ability to: • acquire patented or patentable products and technologies; • obtain and maintain patent protection or market exclusivity for our current and acquired products; • preserve any trade secrets relating to our current and future products; and • operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We currently have no issued patents that directly apply to the use of AMR101 for hypertriglyceridemia, hyperlipidemia or cardiovascular therapy in the U.S. or Europe. We are currently prosecuting a number of patent applications in this area, but these applications have not yet resulted in issued patents for AMR101 formulation or its use in treating hypertriglyceridemia, hyperlipidemia or cardiovascular disease, and we cannot be certain whether patents will issue or what commercial value any patents that do issue would have for us. Although we intend to make reasonable efforts to protect our current and future intellectual property rights and to ensure that any proprietary technology we acquire does not infringe the rights of other parties, we may not be able to ascertain the existence of all potentially conflicting claims. Therefore, there is a risk that third parties may make claims of infringement against our current or future products or technologies. In addition, third parties may be able to obtain patents that prevent the sale of our current or future products or require us to obtain a license and pay significant fees or royalties in order to continue selling such products. We may in the future discover the existence of products that infringe upon patents that we own or that have been licensed to us. Although we intend to protect our trade secrets and proprietary know-how through confidentiality agreements with our manufacturers, employees and consultants, we may not be able to prevent our competitors from breaching these agreements or third parties from independently developing or learning of our trade secrets. 26 Table of Contents We anticipate that competitors may from time to time oppose our efforts to obtain patent protection for new technologies or to submit patented technologies for regulatory approvals. Competitors may seek to challenge patent applications or existing patents to delay the approval process, even if the challenge has little or no merit. Patent challenges are generally highly technical, time consuming and expensive to pursue. Were we to be subject to one or more patent challenges, that effort could consume substantial time and resources, with no assurances of success, even when holding an issued patent. If we do not obtain protection under the Hatch-Waxman Amendments and similar foreign legislation to extend our patents and to obtain market exclusivity for our product candidates, our business may be materially harmed. We believe that the AMR101 compound is a new chemical entity in the United States and may be eligible for market exclusivity under the Food Drug and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, as amended by the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, or the Hatch-Waxman Amendments. A drug can be classified as a new chemical entity if the FDA has not previously approved any other new drug containing the same active agent. Under sections 505(c)(3)(E)(ii) and 505(j)(5)(F)(ii) of the FDCA, as amended by the Hatch-Waxman Amendments, a new chemical entity that is granted regulatory approval may, in the absence of patent protections, be eligible for five years of marketing exclusivity in the United States following regulatory approval. This marketing exclusivity, if granted, would preclude approval during the exclusivity period of certain 505(b)(2) applications or certain abbreviated new drug applications submitted by another company for another version of the drug. However, there is no assurance that our compounds will be considered to be new chemical entities for these purposes or be entitled to the period of marketing exclusivity. If we are not able to gain or exploit the period of marketing exclusivity, we may face significant competitive threats to our commercialization of these compounds from other manufacturers, including the manufacturers of generic alternatives. Further, even if our compounds are considered to be new chemical entities and we are able to gain five years of marketing exclusivity, another company could also gain such marketing exclusivity under the provisions of the FDCA, as amended by the Hatch-Waxman Amendments, if such company can complete a full NDA with a complete human clinical trial process and obtain regulatory approval of its product. Despite the use of confidentiality agreements and/or proprietary rights agreements, which themselves may be of limited effectiveness, it may be difficult for us to protect our trade secrets. We rely on trade secrets to protect technology in cases when we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we require certain of our academic collaborators, contractors and consultants to enter into confidentiality agreements, we may not be able to adequately protect our trade secrets or other proprietary information. Risks Related to Our Business We have lost our foreign private issuer status, which will result in significant additional costs and expenses. Until January 1, 2011, we were a “foreign private issuer,” as such term is defined in Rule 405 under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended. As such, we were exempt from certain provisions applicable to U.S. public companies including: • the rules under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or Exchange Act, requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K; • the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act; • the provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information; and 27 Table of Contents • the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short-swing” trading transaction (a purchase and sale, or sale and purchase, of the issuer’s equity securities within less than six months). We conducted the test for whether or not we were able to remain a foreign private issuer on June 30, 2010 and we determined that we would lose our status as a foreign private issuer effective as of January 1, 2011. The regulatory and compliance costs to us under U.S. securities laws as a U.S. domestic issuer will be significantly more than costs we incur as a foreign private issuer. In addition to having to make the above described filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, which are more detailed than forms typically filed by a foreign private issuer, we lost our ability to rely upon exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements and we are now required to prepare our financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. We will incur significant, increased costs as a result of previously applicable, as well as of newly applicable, provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure. In particular, we perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting and, commencing in fiscal 2010 and continuing in subsequent years, our independent registered public accounting firm reports on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Based on this evaluation and testing, our management identified a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009 which persisted on December 31, 2010. Our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be new material weaknesses or the existing material weakness may not be fully remediated. We expect to incur significant expense and devote substantial management effort toward ensuring compliance with Section 404. We currently do not have an internal audit function, and we will need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge. Moreover, the existence of the identified material weakness or the identification by us or our independent registered public accounting firm of deficiencies in our internal controls that are deemed to be additional material weaknesses could cause the market price of our stock to decline, and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the NASDAQ Stock Market, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would entail expenditure of additional financial and management resources. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting in the past and cannot assure you that material weaknesses will not occur in the future. As part of the annual financial statement review under International Financial Reporting Standards for the period ended December 31, 2009, management concluded that as of December 31, 2009 there was a deficiency in the company’s internal control over financial reporting relating to the technical expertise and review over the accounting for complex, non-routine transactions that could result in a material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements that would not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Accordingly, management determined that this control deficiency constituted a material weakness. During 2010, we did not engage in any new non-routine transactions. Nevertheless, based on management’s evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, management determined that this material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting remained. 28 Table of Contents A change in our tax residence could have a negative effect on our future profitability. Although we are incorporated in England and Wales, we have sought to conduct our affairs in such a way so as to be resident in Ireland for tax purposes. In general, under current Irish legislation, a company is regarded as resident for tax purposes in Ireland if it is centrally managed and controlled in Ireland, or, in certain circumstances, if it is incorporated in Ireland. Trading income of an Irish company is generally taxable at the Irish corporation tax rate of 12.5%. Non-trading income of an Irish company (e.g. interest income, rental income or other passive income), is taxable at a rate of 25%. However, we cannot assure you that this will be the case. It is possible that in the future, whether as a result of a change in law or the practice of any relevant tax authority or as a result of any change in the conduct of our affairs, we could become, or be regarded as having become resident in a jurisdiction other than Ireland. Should we cease to be an Irish tax resident, we may be subject to a charge to Irish capital gains tax on our assets. Similarly, if the tax residency of any of our subsidiaries were to change from their current jurisdiction for any of the reasons listed above, we may be subject to a charge to local capital gains tax charge on the assets. Risks Related to Ownership of our ADSs and Common Shares The price of our ADSs and Common Shares may be volatile. The stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. In addition, the market prices of the securities of many pharmaceutical and medical technology companies have been especially volatile in the past, and this trend is expected to continue in the future. As of January 31, 2011 we had 124,360,252 common shares outstanding. As of January 31, 2011 there were 124,011,453 shares held as ADSs and 348,799 held as common shares (which are not held in the form of ADSs). We issued 66.4 million ADSs and warrants to purchase an additional 33.2 million ADSs in our October 2009 private placement. There is a risk that there may not be sufficient liquidity in the market to accommodate significant increases in selling activity or the sale of a large block of our securities. Our ADSs have historically had limited trading volume, which may also result in volatility. If any of our large investors, particularly the participants in our October 2009 private placement, seek to sell substantial amounts of our ADSs, particularly if these sales are in a rapid or disorderly manner, or other investors perceive that these sales could occur, the market price of our ADSs could decrease significantly. The market price of our ADSs and common shares may also be affected by factors such as: • the announcement of new products or technologies; • innovation by us or our competitors; • developments or disputes concerning any future patent or proprietary rights; • actual or potential medical results relating to our products or our competitors’ products; • interim failures or setbacks in product development; • regulatory developments in the United States, the European Union or other countries; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; and • period-to-period variations in our results of operations. Our directors, management and affiliated investment funds exercise significant control over our company, which will limit your ability to influence corporate matters. As of March 7, 2011 our executive officers, directors and affiliated investment funds collectively control approximately 28% of our outstanding ADSs, excluding any ADSs that such persons may have the right to 29 Table of Contents acquire upon exercise of outstanding options or warrants. As a result, these stockholders, if they act together, will be able to influence our management and affairs and all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. In addition, we entered into an agreement with various participants in the October 2009 private placement under which investment funds affiliated with Orbimed Advisors LLC, Sofinnova Ventures, Fountain Healthcare Partners and Abingworth LLP have the ability to designate persons for Amarin to nominate to its Board of Directors and the other participants have given these investments funds a proxy to vote their securities in favor of these nominees. Amarin has agreed to nominate one (1) designee of investment funds affiliated with each of Orbimed Advisors LLC, Sofinnova Ventures and Fountain Healthcare Partners to its Board of Directors for so long as such funds beneficially own at least fifty percent (50%) of the ADSs it purchased in the October 2009 private placement. Dr. Carl L. Gordon, Dr. James I. Healy and Dr. Manus Rogan were respectively designated by these investment funds pursuant to this arrangement. Investment funds affiliated with Orbimed Advisors LLC, Sofinnova Ventures and Fountain Healthcare Partners also have the right to designate two (2) additional independent directors for Amarin to nominate to its Board of Directors for so long as these funds collectively own at least twenty-five percent (25%) of Amarin’s outstanding voting securities. In addition, Amarin has agreed to nominate one (1) designee of investment funds affiliated with Abingworth LLP to its Board of Directors for so long as such funds beneficially own at least five percent (5%) of Amarin’s outstanding voting securities. Dr. Joseph Anderson was designated by investment funds affiliated with Abingworth LLP under this arrangement. This concentration of ownership and the above-described arrangement may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company that other stockholders may desire and might negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Actual or potential sales of our stock by our employees, including members of our senior management team, pursuant to pre-arranged stock trading plans could cause our stock price to fall or prevent it from increasing for numerous reasons, and actual or potential sales by such persons could be viewed negatively by other investors. In accordance with the guidelines specified under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 and our policies regarding stock transactions, a number of our directors and employees, including members of our senior management team, have adopted and will continue to adopt pre-arranged stock trading plans to sell a portion of our common stock. Generally, stock sales under such plans by members of our senior management team and directors require public filings. Actual or potential sales of our stock by such persons could cause our stock price to fall or prevent it from increasing for numerous reasons. For example, a substantial amount of our common stock becoming available (or being perceived to become available) for sale in the public market could cause the market price of our common stock to fall or prevent it from increasing. Also, actual or potential sales by such persons could be viewed negatively by other investors. A share price of less than $1.00 may impact our NASDAQ listing. Our ADSs are currently trading above $1.00; however, during periods of 2010, 2009 and 2008, they were trading beneath $1.00 per share, including during an extended period from October 6, 2008 to April 7, 2009. If Amarin’s closing bid price is less than $1.00 for 30 consecutive trading days, Amarin will receive a NASDAQ staff deficiency letter indicating that we are not in compliance with the minimum bid price requirement for continued listing. Such a letter would trigger an automatic 180 calendar day period within which the company could regain compliance. Compliance is regained at any time during this period if the Amarin closing bid price is $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive trading days. If compliance cannot be demonstrated by the end of the 180 days, Amarin will be afforded an additional 180 calendar day compliance period if NASDAQ determines at that time that we meet the remaining NASDAQ Capital Market initial listing criteria in Rule 5215(b), except for the bid price requirement. If Amarin was not eligible for an additional compliance period, NASDAQ would provide written notification that our securities will be delisted. At that time, Amarin could appeal NASDAQ’s determination to delist its securities to a Listing Qualifications Panel. 30 Table of Contents The rights of our stockholders may differ from the rights typically offered to stockholders of a U.S. corporation. We are incorporated under English law. The rights of holders of common shares and, therefore, certain of the rights of holders of ADSs, are governed by English law, including the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, and by our Articles of Association. These rights differ in certain respects from the rights of stockholders in typical U.S. corporations. The principal differences include the following: • Under English law, each stockholder present at a meeting has only one vote unless demand is made for a vote on a poll, in which each holder gets one vote per share owned. Under U.S. law, each stockholder typically is entitled to one vote per share at all meetings. Under English law, it is only on a poll that the number of shares determines the number of votes a holder may cast. You should be aware, however, that the voting rights of ADSs are also governed by the provisions of a deposit agreement with our depositary bank. • Under English law, each stockholder generally has preemptive rights to subscribe on a proportionate basis to any issuance of shares. Under U.S. law, stockholders generally do not have preemptive rights unless specifically granted in the certificate of incorporation or otherwise. • Under English law, certain matters require the approval of 75% of the stockholders, including amendments to the Memorandum and Articles of Association. This may make it more difficult for us to complete corporate transactions deemed advisable by our board of directors. Under U.S. law, generally only majority stockholder approval is required to amend the certificate of incorporation or to approve other significant transactions. • Under English law, a bidder seeking to acquire us would need to make a tender offer for 90% of our outstanding common shares/ADSs. If this 90% threshold is not achieved in the offer, under English law, the bidder cannot complete a “second step merger” to obtain 100% control of us. Accordingly, tender of 90% of our outstanding common shares/ADSs will be a condition in a tender offer to acquire us, not 50% as is more common in tender offers for corporations organized under Delaware law. • Under English law, stockholders may be required to disclose information regarding their equity interests upon our request, and the failure to provide the required information could result in the loss or restriction of rights attaching to the shares, including prohibitions on the transfer of the shares, as well as restrictions on dividends and other payments. Comparable provisions generally do not exist under U.S. law. • The quorum requirement for a stockholders’ meeting is a minimum of two persons present in person or by proxy. Under U.S. law, a majority of the shares eligible to vote must generally be present (in person or by proxy) at a stockholders’ meeting in order to constitute a quorum. The minimum number of shares required for a quorum can be reduced pursuant to a provision in a company’s certificate of incorporation or bylaws, but typically not below one-third of the shares entitled to vote at the meeting. U.S. stockholders may not be able to enforce civil liabilities against us. A number of our directors and the officers and directors of each of our subsidiaries are non-residents of the United States, and all or a substantial portion of the assets of such persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon such persons or to enforce against them judgments obtained in U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. We have been advised by our English solicitors that there is doubt as to the enforceability in England in original actions, or in actions for enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, of civil liabilities to the extent predicated upon the federal securities laws of the United States. Amarin Finance Limited is an exempted company limited by shares organized under the laws of Bermuda. We have been advised by our Bermuda attorneys that uncertainty exists as to whether courts in Bermuda will enforce judgments obtained in other jurisdictions (including the United States) against us or our directors or officers under the securities laws of those jurisdictions or entertain actions in Bermuda against us or our directors or officers under the securities laws of other jurisdictions. 31 Table of Contents U.S. Holders of our ADSs could be subject to material adverse tax consequences if we are considered a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Amarin Corporation plc and certain of our subsidiaries may be classified as “passive foreign investment companies,” or PFICs, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The tests for determining PFIC status for a taxable year depend upon the relative values of certain categories of assets and the relative amounts of certain kinds of income. The application of these factors depends upon our financial results, which are beyond our ability to predict or control, and which may be subject to legal and factual uncertainties. While we cannot provide any assurance that we are, are not, or will or will not be, a PFIC for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 or for future periods, given the status of development for AMR101 and the most recent available information regarding our 2010 financial position and results of operations, we believe it prudent to assume that we may be classified as a PFIC for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 and may also be so classified in future years. Whether or not U.S. holders of our ADSs make a timely “QEF election” or “mark-to-market election” may affect the U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders with respect to the acquisition, ownership and disposition of Amarin ADSs and any distributions such U.S. Holders may receive. U.S. Holders of our ADSs may be subject to U.S. income taxation at ordinary income tax rates on undistributed earnings and profits. There is a risk that we will be classified as a controlled foreign corporation, or CFC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If we are classified as a CFC, any stockholder that is a U.S. person that owns directly, indirectly or by attribution, 10% or more of the voting power of our outstanding shares may be subject to U.S. income taxation at ordinary income tax rates on all or a portion of our undistributed earnings and profits attributable to “subpart F income.” Such 10% stockholder may also be taxable at ordinary income tax rates on any gain realized on a sale of common shares or ADS, to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits attributable to such shares. The CFC rules are complex and U.S. Holders of our common shares or ADSs are urged to consult their own tax advisors regarding the possible application of the CFC rules to them in their particular circumstances. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 