ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We make forward-looking statements in our filings with the SEC and in other oral or written communications. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to be materially different from those indicated (both favorably and unfavorably). These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the risks described below. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. There can be no assurance that we have correctly identified, assessed and appropriately addressed all risks affecting our business operations or that the publicly available and other information with respect to these matters is complete and correct. Thus, these and other risks may occur adversely impacting our business. There can also be no assurance that the actual future results, performance, benefits, or achievements that we expect from our strategies, systems, initiatives, or products will occur. Our results of operations depend on the effective management of our growth strategies. Our growth strategies are dependent upon a number of factors, including: testing of new products, locating suitable store sites, negotiating favorable lease terms, having the infrastructure to address the increased number of stores and the increased demands of a DTC business, sourcing sufficient levels of inventory, hiring and training qualified management level and other associates, generating sufficient operating cash flows to fund expansion plans, and integrating new stores and a larger DTC business into existing operations. The inability to properly manage our growth strategies could place increased demands on operational, managerial and administrative 9 Table of Contents resources and may result in us operating the business less effectively, which in turn could cause deterioration in the financial performance of individual stores and/or our DTC business as well as our overall operating performance. Effective management of the performance of our stores is a key factor in the success of our business. We cannot be assured that any new store that opens will have similar operating results to those of prior stores. New stores may take up to two or three years to reach planned operating levels due to inefficiencies typically associated with new stores, including demands on operational, managerial and administrative resources. The failure of existing or new stores to perform as predicted could negatively impact our net sales and results of operations and may result in impairment of long-lived assets at our stores. Our ability to develop new concepts and brand extensions is a significant component of our long-term business strategy. Our longer term business strategy involves the strategic acquisition or organic development and growth of new concepts and brand extensions. Each of these may require significant capital expenditures and management attention. Additionally, any new concept is subject to certain risks including customer acceptance, competition, product differentiation, challenges to economies of scale in merchandise sourcing, and the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. For example, we continue to expand our Soma target customer audience and continue to invest in development of the brand through marketing, new product launches and the opening of new Soma stores in order to create and maintain brand awareness and create economies of scale, which are integral factors in the success of the brand. If we cannot successfully execute our growth strategies, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted. Our results of operations are sensitive to, and may be adversely affected by, general economic conditions and overall consumer confidence. Certain economic conditions affect the level of consumer spending on the merchandise that we offer, including, among others, unemployment levels, availability of consumer credit, inflation, interest rates, recessionary pressures, gas and other energy costs, taxation, and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Disruptions in the overall economy and financial markets tend to reduce consumer confidence in the economy and negatively affect consumers’ spending patterns, which could be harmful to our financial position and results of operations, and may lead us to decelerate the number and timing of new store openings, relocations, or expansions. Furthermore, declines in consumer spending patterns due to economic downturns may have a more negative effect on apparel retailers than other retailers, particularly in our competitive space, and can negatively affect net sales and profitability. Our comparable store sales and operating results may fluctuate. Our comparable store sales and overall operating results have fluctuated in the past and are expected to continue to fluctuate in the future. A variety of factors affect comparable store sales and operating results, including changes in fashion trends, changes in our merchandise mix, customer acceptance of merchandise offerings, timing of catalog mailings, expansion of our DTC business, calendar shifts of holiday periods, actions by competitors, new store openings, weather conditions, and general economic conditions. Past comparable store sales or operating results are not an indicator of future results. Our gross margin and profitability may be impacted by the sales mix between our brands or within product categories. Gross margins are impacted by the sales mix from both merchandise sales mix within a particular brand and relative sales volumes of the different brands. Certain categories of apparel, accessories and lingerie tend to generate somewhat higher margins than others within each brand. Thus, a shift in sales mix within a brand can create a significant impact on our overall gross margins and consolidated earnings. 10 Table of Contents Our business may be adversely affected by pricing pressures including fluctuations in energy and/or commodity costs. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of fabrics and other raw materials used to manufacture our products, as well as the price for labor and transportation have contributed to, and may continue to contribute to, ongoing pricing pressures throughout our supply chain. The price and availability of such inputs to the manufacturing process may fluctuate significantly, depending on several factors, including commodity costs, such as higher cotton prices, energy costs, such as fuel, inflationary pressures from emerging markets, increased labor costs, weather conditions and currency fluctuations. Any or all of these impacts could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the increase in energy and commodity costs could adversely affect consumer spending and demand for our products. Our DTC operations include risks that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our DTC operations are subject to numerous risks, including unanticipated operating problems, reliance on third party computer hardware and software providers, system failures, natural disasters, call center disruptions, and the need to invest in additional infrastructure. The DTC operations also involve other risks including increased postage or printing costs, rapid technological change, liability for online content, credit card fraud, risks related to the possible failure of the systems that operate the website and its related support systems, including computer viruses, telecommunication failures and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. Given our business strategy to target sustained growth and increased sales penetration in the DTC area, the risks associated with DTC operations are likely to be of greater significance in fiscal 2011 and future years than in prior years. We significantly rely on our ability to implement and maintain our information technology systems. We rely on various information technology systems to manage our operations and regularly make investments to upgrade, enhance or replace such systems. Any delays or difficulties in transitioning or in integrating new systems with our current systems, or any other disruptions affecting our information technology systems could have a material adverse impact on the business. We also use information technology systems for individually identifiable data, which is regulated at the international, federal and state levels. Privacy and information security laws and regulation changes, and compliance with them, may result in cost increases due to system changes and the development of new administrative processes. If we or our associates fail to comply with these laws and regulations or experience a data security breach, our reputation could be damaged, possibly resulting in lost future business, and we could be subjected to fines, penalties, administrative orders and other legal risks as a result of non-compliance. We also expect to continue making modifications and upgrades to our information technology systems to support our business strategies and provide business continuity. Modifications include replacing legacy systems with successor systems, making changes to existing systems or acquiring new systems with new functionality. There are inherent risks associated with replacing these systems, including accurately capturing data and system disruptions and we believe we are taking appropriate action to mitigate these risks through testing, training and staging implementation. Information technology system disruptions, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We rely on one location to distribute goods to our stores and fulfill DTC orders. The distribution functions for all of our stores and for our DTC sales are handled from our DC in Winder, Georgia. Any significant interruption in the operation of the facilities at the DC due to natural disasters, accidents, system failures or other unforeseen causes could delay or impair our ability to distribute merchandise to our stores and/or fulfill DTC orders, which could cause sales to decline. We regularly review our options to mitigate these risks including contingency plans and back-up relationships with outside providers of distribution services. Our success depends on a high volume of traffic to our stores and the availability of suitable store locations. In order to generate customer traffic, we locate many of our stores in prominent locations within shopping centers that have been or are expected to be successful. We cannot control the development of new shopping centers, the availability or cost of appropriate locations within existing or new shopping centers, or the success of individual 11 Table of Contents shopping centers. Furthermore, factors beyond our control impact shopping center traffic, such as general economic conditions, weather conditions, consumer acceptance of new or existing shopping centers, regional demographic shifts, and consumer spending levels. Our sales are partly dependent on a high volume of shopping center traffic and any decline in such shopping center traffic, whether because of the slowdown in the economy, a falloff in the popularity of shopping centers among our target customers, or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business fluctuates on a seasonal basis. Our business is comprised of two distinct selling seasons: spring and fall. During the peaks of these seasons, higher inventory levels, increased marketing costs, availability of temporary personnel, and other factors may impact our results. Lower than expected sales or profit margins during these periods could materially affect our financial condition or results of operations. Our inability to remain current with fashion trends and introduce new products successfully could negatively impact our financial results. Our success is principally dependent upon our ability to gauge the fashion tastes of our customers and to provide merchandise that is on-trend and satisfies customer demand in a timely manner. Misjudgments or unanticipated fashion changes could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately and in a timely manner to changes in fashion trends or demands, could lead to lower sales, excess inventories and more frequent markdowns or inventory write-downs, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Our inability to maintain proper inventory levels could have a negative effect on our results of operations. We maintain inventory levels in our stores and distribution center that we anticipate will be in line with projected demand. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs or the sale of excess inventory at discounted or closeout prices. These events could significantly harm our operating results and impair the image of one or more of our brands. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our merchandise, particularly higher volume styles, or if our suppliers fail to supply quality products in a timely manner, we may experience inventory shortages, which might result in missed sales, negatively impact customer relationships, diminish brand loyalty and result in lost revenues, any of which could harm our business. Our suppliers may not be able to provide goods in a timely manner and meet quality standards. A key supplier may become unable to address our merchandising needs due to payment terms, cost of manufacturing, adequacy of manufacturing capacity, quality control, or timeliness of delivery. If we were unexpectedly required to change suppliers or if a key supplier was unable to supply acceptable merchandise in sufficient quantities on acceptable terms, we could experience a significant disruption in the supply of merchandise. We could also experience operational difficulties with our suppliers, such as reductions in the availability of production capacity, supply chain disruptions, errors in complying with merchandise specifications, insufficient quality control, shortages of fabrics or other raw materials, failures to meet production deadlines or increases in manufacturing costs. Furthermore, many of our suppliers rely on working capital financing to finance their operations. Although the credit market has improved since 2008, lenders have still maintained tightened credit standards and terms. To the extent any of our suppliers are unable to obtain adequate credit or their borrowing costs increase, we may experience delays in obtaining merchandise, the suppliers increasing their prices or the suppliers modifying payment terms in a manner that is unfavorable to us. A significant portion of our merchandise is received from one supplier. We have no material long-term or exclusive contract with any apparel or accessory manufacturer or supplier. Our business depends on our network of suppliers and our continued good relations with them. However, approximately 18% of total purchases in fiscal 2010 and 13% of total purchases in 2009 were made from one supplier. We cannot guarantee that this relationship will be maintained in the future or that the supplier will continue 12 Table of Contents to be available to supply merchandise. A significant disruption in the supply of merchandise from this, or any other key supplier, could have a material adverse impact on our operations. Competition could negatively impact our results. We compete with national, international and local department stores, specialty and discount store chains, independent retail stores, and catalog and online businesses that market and sell similar lines of merchandise. Many competitors are significantly larger and have greater financial, marketing and other resources and enjoy greater national, regional and local name recognition. In addition to competing for sales, we compete for favorable store locations, lease terms and qualified associates. Increased competition could result in price reductions, increased marketing expenditures and loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The recent recessionary conditions have resulted in more significant competition as our competitors have lowered prices and engaged in more promotional activity. We rely significantly on foreign sources of production. The majority of our clothing and accessories is produced outside the United States, the percentage has been growing, and this trend may continue. As a result, our business remains subject to the various risks of doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad, such as: (i) geo-political instability; (ii) imposition of new legislation relating to import quotas that may limit the quantity of goods that may be imported into the United States from countries in which we do business; (iii) imposition of new or increased duties, taxes, and other charges on imports; (iv) foreign exchange rate challenges and pressures presented by implementation of U.S. monetary policy; (v) local business practice and political issues, including issues relating to compliance with our Terms of Commitment to Ethical Sourcing and domestic or international labor standards; (vi) transportation disruptions; (vii) natural disasters; (viii) delays in the delivery of cargo due to port security considerations; and (ix) seizure or detention of goods by U.S. Customs authorities. In particular, we continue to source a substantial portion of our merchandise from China. A change in the Chinese currency, other policies affecting labor laws or the costs of goods in China could negatively impact our merchandise costs. Additionally, due to recent inflationary pressures we have needed to reserve fabric with our suppliers further in advance of our normal production process. This results in additional risks, including forecasting of anticipated demand over a longer period, which could adversely impact our results of operations. We cannot predict whether or not any of the foreign countries in which our clothing and accessories are currently, or in the future may be produced, will be subject to import restrictions by the United States government, including the likelihood, type or effect of any trade retaliation. Trade restrictions, including increased tariffs, or more restrictive quotas, including safeguard quotas, or anything similar, applicable to apparel items could affect the importation of apparel generally and, in that event, could increase the cost, or reduce the supply, of apparel available to us and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the laws and customs protecting intellectual property rights in many foreign countries can be substantially different and potentially less protective of intellectual property than those in the United States. We have taken numerous steps to protect our intellectual property overseas, but cannot guarantee that such rights are not infringed. The intentional or unintentional infringement on our intellectual property rights by one of our suppliers or any other person or entity, could diminish the uniqueness of our products, tarnish our trademarks, or damage our reputation. Our business could be negatively impacted if a supplier fails to implement acceptable labor practices. Although we have adopted our Terms of Commitment to Ethical Sourcing and use the services of third party audit firms to be diligent in our monitoring of compliance with these terms, we do not have absolute control over the ultimate actions or labor practices of our independent suppliers. Furthermore, we are attempting to lower our reliance on suppliers located in China. As a result, we may do business with suppliers that are not as familiar with our supplier guidelines which may result in temporary noncompliance. 13 Table of Contents The violation of labor or other laws by any of our key independent suppliers or the divergence of an independent supplier’s labor practices from those generally accepted by us as ethical could interrupt or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished merchandise or damage our reputation. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could adversely impact our business. Our policies and procedures are designed to comply with all applicable laws, accounting and reporting requirements, regulations and tax requirements, including those imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”). Failure to comply with the various laws and regulations as well as changes in laws and regulations could have an adverse impact on our reputation, financial condition or results of operations. We may be subject to adverse outcomes of litigation matters. We are involved from time to time in litigation and other claims against our business. These matters arise primarily in the ordinary course of business but could raise complex, factual and legal issues, which are subject to multiple risks and uncertainties and could require significant management time. We believe that our current litigation matters will not have a material adverse effect on the results of operations or financial condition. However, our assessment of current litigation could change in light of the discovery of facts with respect to legal actions pending against us, not presently known to us, or determinations by judges, juries or other finders of fact which do not accord with our evaluation of the possible liability or outcome of such litigation and additional litigation that is not currently pending could have a more significant impact on our business and operations. We may be unable to retain or recruit key personnel. Our success and ability to properly manage our growth depends to a significant extent both upon the performance of our current executive and senior management team and our ability to attract, hire, motivate, and retain additional qualified personnel in the future. If we cannot recruit and retain such additional personnel or we lose the services of any of our executive officers without appropriate succession planning, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our success also depends in part upon our ability to attract, develop and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including store associates and talented merchants. If we are unable to identify, hire, develop, retain and motivate associates sufficiently in order to maintain our current business and support our growth strategies, our business could be adversely impacted. War, terrorism or other catastrophes may negatively impact our results. In the event of war, acts of terrorism or the threat of terrorist attacks, customer traffic in shopping centers and consumer spending could significantly decrease. In addition, local authorities or shopping center management could close in response to any immediate security concern or weather catastrophe such as hurricanes, earthquakes, or tornadoes. Similarly, war, acts of terrorism, threats of terrorist attacks, or a weather catastrophe could severely and adversely affect our National Store Support Center (“NSSC”) campus or distribution center which, in turn, could have a material adverse impact on our business. Impairment charges could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Periodically, we review our long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. We also test our goodwill and intangible assets for impairment at least annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. Significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business and unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets may result in impairments to goodwill and other long-lived assets. Future impairment charges could significantly affect our results of operations in the periods recognized. Our failure to protect our brands’ reputation and/or intellectual property could have an adverse effect on our brand images. Our ability to protect our brands’ reputation is an integral part of our general success strategy and is critical to the overall value of the brands. Maintaining and positioning these brands is an ongoing investment for us and our 14 Table of Contents continued investment in customer research and promotional venues will be essential. Additionally, if we fail to maintain high standards for merchandise quality and integrity, such failures could jeopardize the brands’ reputation and have a negative effect on our business. Damage to our reputation as a whole could also cause a loss of consumer and investor confidence and could have a material effect on our business. In addition, our trademarks, copyrights, and other intellectual and proprietary rights are important to our success. Even though we take action to protect all of our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, others may attempt to imitate our products or obtain or infringe upon our intellectual property rights. Other parties may also claim that some of our products infringe on their trademarks, copyrights, or other intellectual property rights. To the extent such claims are successful, sales could decline and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially in the past and may continue to do so in the future. Future announcements or management discussions concerning us or our competitors, sales and profitability results, quarterly variations in operating results or comparable store net sales, or changes in earnings estimates by analysts, among other factors, could cause the market price of the common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, stock markets, in general, have experienced extreme price and volume volatility in recent years. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many public companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 