ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company makes forward-looking statements in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in other oral or written communications. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to be materially different from those indicated (both favorably and unfavorably). These risks and uncertainties include (but are not limited to) the risks described below. The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Effective Management of Growth Strategy The Company’s growth strategy which includes brand extensions, the planned square footage expansion, and number of new stores is dependent upon a number of factors, including: testing of new products, locating suitable store sites, negotiating favorable lease terms, having the infrastructure to address the increased new store sizes and targets, sourcing sufficient levels of inventory, hiring and training qualified management level and other associates, generate sufficient operating cash flows to fund the expansion plans, and integrating new stores into its existing operations. There can be no assurance that the Company will achieve its planned expansion or that such expansion will be profitable or that the Company will be able to manage its growth effectively. New Store Openings and Remodels The Company’s continued growth depends, in part, on its ability to open and operate new stores and remodels of existing stores. During fiscal 2008, the Company plans to open approximately 35-40 net new stores, of which 17-20 are expected to be Chico’s stores, 18-20 are expected to be WH|BM stores and none are expected to be Soma stores. The Company expects to continue to open new stores in future years, while also remodeling, relocating and expanding a portion of the existing store base. The planned openings and expansions could place increased demands on operational, managerial and administrative resources. These increased demands could cause the Company to operate the business less effectively, which in turn could cause deterioration in the financial performance of individual stores. In addition, to the extent that a number of new store openings are in existing markets, the Company may experience reduced net sales volumes in previously existing stores in those same markets. Seasonal Fluctuations The nature of the Company’s business is to have two distinct selling seasons; spring and fall. During the peaks of these seasons, increased marketing, temporary personnel, and other expenses may be incurred to prepare and compete for the anticipated stronger consumer spending. Lower than expected sales or profit margins during this period, as was experienced in fiscal 2007, could materially affect the financial condition and results of operations. Vendor Relationships The Company has no material long-term or exclusive contracts with any apparel or accessory manufacturer or supplier. The business depends on its network of suppliers and on continued good relations with its vendor base. A key vendor may become unable to supply our merchandising needs due to payment terms, cost of manufacturing, adequacy of manufacturing capacity, quality control, and timeliness of delivery. If the Company was unexpectedly required to change vendors or if a key vendor was unable to supply desired merchandise in sufficient quantities on acceptable terms, the Company could experience inventory shortages until alternative vendor arrangements were secured. The Company has contracted with one intermediary “cut and sew” vendor that accounted for approximately 16% of the purchases for the Chico’s brand during the last fiscal year. The Company cannot guarantee that 21 Table of Contents this relationship will be maintained in the future or that the intermediary will continue to be available to coordinate and facilitate production and supply of merchandise. A significant disruption in the supply of merchandise from this, or any other key vendor, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s operations. Fluctuations in Comparable Store Sales Results The Company’s comparable store sales results have fluctuated in the past on a daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly and annual basis, and are expected to continue to fluctuate in the future. A variety of factors affect comparable store sales results, including changes in fashion trends, changes in the Company’s merchandise mix, customer acceptance of merchandise offerings, timing of catalog mailings, calendar shifts of holiday periods, actions by competitors, new store openings, weather conditions, and general economic conditions. Past comparable store sales results are not an indicator of future results. In fiscal 2007, the Company experienced a shift to negative overall (and negative Chico’s and WH|BM brand) comparable store sales results, which had a significant effect on the Company’s performance and market price of the Company’s common stock. Similarly, the Company’s overall and individual brand comparable store sales results in the future, both positive and negative, are likely to have a significant impact on the market price of the Company’s common stock. Gross Profit Margin Impact of Mix of Sales The Company’s gross profit margins are impacted by the sales mix both from the perspective of merchandise sales mix within a particular brand and relative sales volumes of the different brands. Certain categories of apparel and accessories tend to generate somewhat higher margins than others within each brand. Thus, a shift in sales mix within a brand can often create a significant impact on the Company’s overall gross margins. On the other hand, the gross margins for the Chico’s brand have been somewhat higher than at the WH|BM and Soma brands. As sales at WH|BM and Soma grow at a faster pace than at the Chico’s brand as planned, the Company’s overall gross profit margins may be negatively impacted which could in turn have an adverse effect on the Company’s overall operating margin and the market price of the Company’s common stock. Impact on Selling, General and Administrative Expenses from the Opening of Larger Stores The average size of the Chico’s and WH|BM stores has been increasing over the last several years. In particular, new Chico’s and WH|BM front-line stores were approximately 30% larger than the chain average in fiscal 2007 and are again expected to be between 30%-40% larger than the chain average in fiscal 2008. Although these stores are expected to produce incremental profit dollars that will be in the range of each respective chain’s average anticipated profits, they will likely increase selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales due to their larger size and anticipated initial lower sales per selling foot. Although it is anticipated that these stores will eventually achieve profit margins equal to more mature stores, these stores are likely over at least the short term to put pressure on the Company’s operating margin by increasing selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales. This could have an adverse effect on the Company’s operating margin and the market price of the Company’s common stock. Risks Associated with Catalog and Internet Sales The Company sells merchandise over the Internet through its websites, www.chicos.com, www.whitehouseblackmarket.com, and www.soma.com. Although the Company’s catalog and Internet operations encompassed only 4.2% of the Company’s total sales for fiscal 2007, these sales have been steadily growing. It is anticipated that the percentage will continue to grow and could grow faster than in the past, due to the Company’s concentrated efforts in the area. The Company’s catalog and Internet operations are subject to numerous risks, including unanticipated operating problems, reliance on third party computer hardware and software providers, system failures and the need to invest in additional computer systems. The catalog and Internet operations also involve other risks that could have an impact on the Company’s results of operations including hiring, retention and training of personnel to conduct the Company’s catalog and Internet operations, diversion of sales from the Company’s stores, rapid technological change, liability for online content, credit card fraud, risks related to the failure of the computer systems that operate the website and its related support systems, including computer viruses, telecommunication failures and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. Given the Company’s business strategy to target substantial growth in its catalog and Internet operations and thus increase sales penetration, supported by investment in new hardware, software and personnel, the risks associated with catalog and Internet 22 Table of Contents operations are likely to be of greater significance in fiscal 2008 and future years. There can be no assurance that the Company’s catalog and Internet operations will be able to achieve targeted sales and profitability growth or even remain at their current level. Dependence on Single Distribution Location The Company’s distribution functions for all of its stores and for its catalog and Internet sales are handled from two separate facilities located beside each other in Barrow County, Georgia. Any significant interruption in the operation of either of these distribution facilities due to natural disasters, accidents, system failures or other unforeseen causes could delay or impair the Company’s ability to distribute merchandise to its stores and/or fulfill catalog and Internet orders, which could cause sales to decline. The Company regularly reviews and is developing its options to mitigate this risk including contingency plans and back-up relationships with outside providers of distribution activities. Success and Location of Shopping Centers In order to generate customer traffic, the Company locates many of its stores in prominent locations within shopping centers that have been or are expected to be successful. The Company cannot control the development of new shopping centers, the availability or cost of appropriate locations within existing or new shopping centers, or the success of individual shopping centers. Furthermore, factors beyond the Company’s control impact shopping center traffic, such as general economic conditions, weather conditions and consumer spending levels. A slowdown in the U.S. economy, as has been seen in fiscal 2007 and so far in fiscal 2008, tends to negatively affect consumer spending and reduce shopping center traffic. The Company’s sales are partly dependent on a high volume of shopping center traffic and any decline in such shopping center traffic, whether because of the slowdown in the economy, a falloff in the popularity of shopping centers among our target customers, or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Changes in Accounting Principles, Interpretations and Practices Financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. These accounting principles can be complex for certain aspects of the Company’s business and may involve subjective judgments. A change from current accounting standards could have a significant effect on the Company’s results of operations. For example, in fiscal 2006, the Company adopted SFAS 123R, which addressed the accounting for share-based payments. In fiscal 2006, stock-based compensation reduced earnings per share by approximately $.07 per diluted share. Although the adoption of SFAS 123R is expected to continue to have a significant impact on the Company’s results of operations, future changes to various assumptions used to determine the fair-value of awards issued or the amount and type of equity awards granted may impact future stock-based compensation expense and further reduce the Company’s earnings. Adverse Outcomes of Litigation Matters The Company is involved from time to time with litigation and other claims to its business. These issues arise primarily in the ordinary course of business but could raise complex factual and legal issues, which are subject to multiple risks and uncertainties and could require significant management time. The Company believes that the Company’s current litigation issues will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or financial condition. However, the Company’s assessment of current litigation could change in light of the discovery of facts with respect to legal actions pending against the Company not presently known to the Company or determinations by judges, juries or other finders of fact which do not accord with the Company’s evaluation of the possible liability or outcome of such litigation and additional litigation that is not currently pending could have a more significant impact on the Company and its operations. New Headquarters Expansion During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company completed the purchase of approximately 22 acres of property adjacent to the Company’s current headquarters site in Fort Myers, Florida to serve as the base for expansion of the Company’s corporate headquarters operations. The total cost for this property, along with the buildings, was approximately $26.4 million, which includes all transaction costs as of February 2, 2008. The property includes seven existing buildings aggregating approximately 200,600 square feet of space, approximately 23 Table of Contents 12% of which continues to be leased to unrelated third parties. As the remaining leases expire or are otherwise terminated, the Company anticipates it will be utilizing the vacant space, which is likely to require modifications, for its expanding corporate headquarters needs. The Company anticipates that its cash and marketable securities on hand and cash from operations will be adequate to cover the necessary costs of construction for its headquarters expansion. However, in the event that such cash and marketable securities on hand and cash from operations is not sufficient to meet the Company’s capital expenditures needs, the Company may need to draw on its line of credit or seek other financing in order to fund the costs of expansion of the headquarters campus or other capital expenditures. In addition, such activities could potentially result in temporary disruptions of operations or a diversion of management’s attention and resources. Reliance on Key Personnel The Company’s success and ability to properly manage its growth depends to a significant extent both upon the performance of its current executive and senior management team and its ability to attract, hire, motivate, and retain additional qualified management personnel in the future. The Company’s inability to recruit and retain such additional personnel, or the loss of the services of any of its executive officers, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Effects of War, Terrorism or Other Catastrophes In the event of war, acts of terrorism or any further threat of terrorist attacks, customer traffic in shopping centers could significantly decrease. In addition, local authorities or shopping center management could close in response to any immediate security concern or weather catastrophe such as a hurricane or tornado. Similarly, war, acts of terrorism, threats of terrorist attacks, or a weather catastrophe could severely and adversely affect the Company’s headquarters or distribution center that, in turn, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business. Any such event could result in decreased sales that would have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Merchandising/Fashion Sensitivity The Company’s success is principally dependent upon its ability to gauge the fashion tastes of its customers and to provide merchandise that satisfies customer demand in a timely manner. The Company’s failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately and in a timely manner to changes in fashion trends or demands (such as the fashion missteps that occurred in fiscal 2006 and 2007) could lead to lower sales, excess inventories and more frequent markdowns, which could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business. Misjudgments or unanticipated fashion changes could also have a material adverse impact on the Company’s image with its customers. There can be no assurance that the Company’s new products will be met with the same level of acceptance as in the past or that the failure of any new products will not have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Maintaining Proper Inventory Levels The Company maintains an inventory of merchandise in its stores and distribution center, particularly of selected products that the Company anticipates will be in high demand. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs or the sale of excess inventory at discounted or closeout prices, such as that which occurred in the latter half of fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2007. These events could significantly harm the Company’s operating results and impair the image of one or more of the Company’s brands. Conversely, if the Company underestimates consumer demand for its merchandise, particularly higher volume styles, or if the Company’s manufacturers fail to supply quality products in a timely manner, the Company may experience inventory shortages, which might result in missed sales, negatively impact customer relationships, diminish brand loyalty and result in lost revenues, any of which could harm the Company’s business. Price, Availability and Quality of its Offerings Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of fabrics and other raw materials used in producing the Company’s products could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s cost of goods or its ability to meet customer demands. The price and availability of such fabrics, other raw materials and labor may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors, including natural resources, increased freight costs, increased labor costs, 24 Table of Contents weather conditions and currency fluctuations. In the future, the Company may not be able to pass all or a portion of such higher fabric, other raw materials or labor prices on to its customers. Reliance on Third-Party Manufacturers All of the Company’s merchandise is produced by independent manufacturers. The Company does not currently have long-term supply or capacity contracts with these manufacturers. In addition, the Company faces the risk that these third-party manufacturers with whom it contracts to produce its merchandise may not produce and deliver the Company’s merchandise on a timely basis, or at all. As a result, the Company cannot be certain that these manufacturers will continue to produce merchandise for the Company or that the Company will not experience operational difficulties with its manufacturers, such as reductions in the availability of production capacity, errors in complying with merchandise specifications, insufficient quality control, shortages of fabrics or other raw materials, failures to meet production deadlines or increases in manufacturing costs. The failure of any manufacturer to perform to the Company’s expectations could result in supply shortages for certain merchandise and harm the Company’s business. Reliance on Foreign Sources of Production Although the Company has certain portions of its clothing and accessories produced within the United States, a majority of the Company’s clothing and accessories are still produced outside the United States and the percentage has been growing. As a result, the Company’s business remains subject to the various risks of doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad, such as: (i) political instability; (ii) imposition of new legislation relating to import quotas that may limit the quantity of goods that may be imported into the United States from countries in a region that the Company does business; (iii) imposition of duties, taxes, and other charges on imports; (iv) foreign exchange rate challenges, which tend to be heightened as a result of recent weaknesses in the strength of the dollar and pressures presented by implementation of U.S. monetary policy; (v) local business practice and political issues, including issues relating to compliance with domestic or international labor standards; (vi) transportation disruptions, and (vii) seizure or detention of goods by Customs authorities. The Company cannot predict whether any of the foreign countries in which its clothing and accessories are currently produced or any of the countries in which the Company’s clothing and accessories may be produced in the future will be subject to import restrictions by the United States government, including the likelihood, type or effect of any trade retaliation. Trade restrictions, including increased tariffs or more restrictive quotas, or both, applicable to apparel items could affect the importation of apparel generally and, in that event, could increase the cost, or reduce the supply, of apparel available to the Company and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s merchandise flow and cost may also be adversely affected by political instability in any of the countries in which its goods are produced and continuing adverse changes in foreign exchange rates. Vendor’s Compliance with Labor Practices Requirements Although the Company has adopted its Terms of Commitment to Ethical Sourcing and seeks to be diligent in its monitoring of compliance with these terms, the Company does not have absolute control over the ultimate actions or labor practices of its independent vendors. The violation of labor or other laws by one of its key independent vendors or the divergence of an independent vendor’s labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical by the Company could interrupt or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished merchandise to the Company or damage the Company’s reputation. Any of these, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and its stock price. Competition The retail apparel and accessory industry is highly competitive. The Company competes with national, international and local department stores, specialty and discount store chains, independent retail stores and Internet and catalog businesses that market similar lines of merchandise. Many competitors are significantly larger and have greater financial, marketing and other resources and enjoy greater national, regional and local name recognition than does the Company. Depth of selection in sizes, colors and styles of merchandise, merchandise procurement and pricing, ability to anticipate fashion trends and consumer preferences, inventory control, reputation, quality of 25 Table of Contents merchandise, store design and location, brand recognition and customer service are all important factors in competing successfully in the retail industry. The Company’s successful performance in recent years has increased the amount of imitation by other retailers. Such imitation has made and will continue to make the retail environment in which the Company operates more competitive. General Economic Conditions Certain economic conditions affect the level of consumer spending on merchandise offered by the Company, including, among others, unemployment levels, business conditions, inflation, interest rates, recession, energy costs, taxation and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Consumer preference and economic conditions may differ or change from time to time in each market in which the Company operates. Furthermore, declines in consumer spending patterns due to economic downturns may have a more negative effect on apparel retailers than some other retailers and can negatively affect the Company’s net sales and profitability. Reliance on Information Technology The Company relies on various information systems to manage its operations and regularly makes investments to upgrade, enhance or replace such systems. The Company is currently implementing a new enterprise resource planning system (ERP) through SAP, a third party vendor, to assist in managing its retail stores. This fully integrated system is expected to support and coordinate all aspects of product development, merchandising, finance and accounting and to be fully scalable to accommodate rapid growth. Any delays or difficulties in transitioning or in integrating SAP with the Company’s current systems, or any other disruptions affecting the Company’s information systems, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business. Strategic Development of New Concepts A significant portion of the Company’s longer term business strategy involves the organic development and growth of new concepts and brand extensions within established brands. The Company’s ability to succeed in new concepts requires significant capital expenditures and management attention. Additionally, any new concept is subject to certain risks including customer acceptance, competition, product differentiation, challenges to economies of scale in merchandise sourcing and the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, including management and designers. During fiscal 2004, the Company launched a new 10-store concept, Soma, in which the product offering is focused around intimate apparel, sleepwear, and activewear. The Company has committed significant financial and human resources to launching and developing this concept. During fiscal 2005, the Company opened an additional five Soma stores based on initial performance of the first 10 stores and based on perceived prospects. During fiscal 2006 and 2007, the Company continued to expand the presence of the Soma brand by opening 37 and 17 net new Soma stores, respectively. The Company recently announced it is slowing its planned new store growth in Soma stores in order to focus on improving its operations and profitability. The Company believes the Soma brand reduced the Company’s earnings per share by approximately $0.12 for fiscal 2007 and, to a lesser extent, will continue to be dilutive in fiscal 2008. The Soma store concept was initially focused towards the Chico’s target customer. The Company is currently expanding its Soma target customer and continues to invest in development of the brand through marketing and new product launches in order to create and maintain brand awareness, which is an integral factor in the success of the brand. Although the Company believes building brand awareness will attract new customers, the Company cannot provide assurance that the marketing activities and new product launches will result in increased sales or profitability in the future for the Soma brand. In addition, the Company believes that eventual profitability is in part dependent on the ability to open a critical mass of Soma stores (currently believed to be at least 100 stores) and the planned slowdown in the new store openings (in order to focus on improving the existing Soma operations and profitability) pushes that target further into the future. Thus, if the Company cannot successfully execute its growth strategies for development of the Soma brand, or any other new concepts or brand extensions for that matter, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted. 26 Table of Contents Energy Prices Oil prices have fluctuated dramatically in the past and have risen significantly in late fiscal 2007 and early in fiscal 2008. If the trend of increasing oil prices continues, this trend may result in a further increase in the Company’s transportation costs for distribution, utility costs for its retail stores and costs to purchase apparel from its vendors. In addition, rising oil prices could adversely affect consumer spending and demand for the Company’s products and increase its operating costs, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Protection of Intellectual Property The Company believes that its trademarks, copyrights, and other intellectual and proprietary rights are important to its success. Even though the Company takes action to establish, register and protect its trademarks, copyrights, and other intellectual and proprietary rights, there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful or that others will not imitate the Company’s products or infringe upon the Company’s intellectual property rights. In addition, there can be no assurance that others will not resist or seek to block the sale of the Company’s products as infringements of their trademarks, copyrights, or other proprietary rights. If the Company is required to stop using any of its registered or non-registered trademarks or copyrights, the Company’s sales could decline and its business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Goodwill and Intangible Assets As of February 2, 2008, the Company’s goodwill and other intangible assets totaled approximately $96.8 million and $38.9 million, respectively. In early fiscal 2007, the Company completed the acquisition of all outstanding franchise rights which included 12 Minnesota stores and 1 Florida store. The Minnesota franchise acquisition resulted in the recognition of $27.7 million of goodwill and $4.9 million of an intangible asset, which represents the fair value of re-acquired territory rights and which the Company determined to have an indefinite useful life. In addition, the Florida franchise acquisition resulted in the recognition of $6.4 million of goodwill. The remaining goodwill and other intangible asset balances are related to the acquisition of The White House, Inc. At the time of the White House acquisition, the Company determined that the WH|BM trademark also had an indefinite useful life. Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized, but rather are tested for impairment annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. During fiscal 2006, the Company decided to close the Fitigues brand operations and as a result, the Company recorded a goodwill impairment loss of approximately $6.8 million. If the Company determines in the future that other impairments have occurred, the Company would be required to write off the impaired portion of either 1) goodwill, 2) the WH|BM trademark asset or 3) the Minnesota territorial rights, which could substantially and negatively impact the Company’s results of operations. Volatility of Stock Price The market price of the Company’s common stock has fluctuated substantially in the past and there can be no assurance that the market price of the common stock will not continue to fluctuate significantly. Future announcements or management discussions concerning the Company or its competitors, sales and profitability results, quarterly variations in operating results or monthly comparable store net sales, changes in earnings estimates by analysts or changes in accounting policies, among other factors, could cause the market price of the common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, stock markets, in general, have experienced extreme price and volume volatility in recent years. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many public companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. The foregoing list of risk factors is not exhaustive. There can be no assurance that the Company has correctly identified and appropriately assessed all factors affecting its business operations or that the publicly available and other information with respect to these matters is complete and correct. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that it currently believes to be immaterial also may adversely impact the business. Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have material adverse effects on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 27 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Like other seasoned issuers, the Company, from time to time, receives written comments from the staff of the SEC regarding the Company’s periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. There are no comments that remain unresolved that the Company received not less than 180 days before the end of its 2007 fiscal year to which this Form 10-K relates. 