Item 1A. Risk Factors Continued adverse market conditions in the electronics industry could reduce our future sales and earnings per share. The business environment in the electronics industry is challenging due to adverse worldwide economic conditions. There has been an erosion of global consumer confidence amidst concerns over declining asset values, inflation, volatility in energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, rising unemployment, and the stability and solvency of financial institutions, financial markets, businesses, and sovereign nations. These concerns have slowed global economic growth and have resulted in recessions in many countries, including in the U.S., Europe and certain countries in Asia. The conditions have resulted, and may result in the future, in our customers delaying purchases of the products we manufacture for them and our customers placing purchase orders for lower volumes of products than previously experienced or anticipated. We cannot accurately predict future levels of demand for our customers’ electronics products. Consequently, our past operating results, earnings and cash flows may not be indicative of our future operating results, earnings and cash flows. If these economic conditions continue to persist or worsen, in addition to our customers or potential customers reducing or delaying orders, a number of other negative effects on our business could result, including the insolvency of key suppliers, which could result in production delays, shorter payment terms from suppliers due to reduced availability of credit default insurance in the market, the inability of customers to obtain credit, and the insolvency of one or more customers. Any of these effects could impact our ability to effectively manage inventory levels and collect receivables, increase our need for cash, and decrease our net revenue and profitability. Many of the industries to which we provide products have recently experienced significant financial difficulty, with some of the participants filing for bankruptcy. Such significant financial difficulty, if experienced by one or more of our customers, may negatively affect our business due to the decreased demand of these financially distressed customers, the potential inability of these companies to make full payment on amounts owed to us, or both. For example, one of our customers, Nortel Networks, has filed a petition for reorganization under bankruptcy law. As a result of this filing, in the first quarter of 2009, we reversed revenue and recorded an inventory provision in an aggregate amount of $10 million with respect to this customer. We are subject to intense competition in the EMS industry which could cause us to lose sales and therefore hurt our financial performance. The EMS industry is highly competitive and the industry has been experiencing an increase in excess manufacturing capacity, particularly in light of slowing U.S. and international economies. Our competitors include major global EMS providers such as Celestica, Inc., Flextronics International Ltd., Hon Hai (Foxconn) and Jabil Circuit, Inc., as well as other EMS companies that have a regional, product, service or industry specific focus. Some of these companies have greater manufacturing and financial resources than we do. We also face competition from current and potential OEM customers who may elect to manufacture their own products internally rather than outsourcing to EMS providers. We may not be able to offer prices as low as some of our competitors because those competitors may have lower operating costs as a result of their geographic location or the services they provide or because these competitors are willing to provide EMS services at prices that result in lower gross margins in order to utilize more of their capacity. If we are unable or unwilling to offer prices that are competitive with other EMS companies, our net sales may decline. We have experienced instances in which customers have transferred all or certain portions of their business to competitors in response to more attractive pricing quotations than we have been willing to offer to retain such customers, and there can be no assurance that we will not lose business in the future in response to such competitive pricing or other inducements which may be offered by our competitors. 25 Our operating results are subject to significant uncertainties, which make predictability of our future sales and net income difficult. Our operating results are subject to significant uncertainties, including: • conditions in the economy as a whole and in the electronics industry; • timing of orders from customers and the accuracy of their forecasts; • timing of expenditures in anticipation of increased sales, customer product delivery requirements and shortages of components or labor; • mix of products ordered by and shipped to major customers, as high volume and low complexity manufacturing services typically have lower gross margins than more complex and lower volume services; • degree to which we are able to utilize our available manufacturing capacity; • our ability to effectively plan production and manage our inventory and fixed assets; • customer insolvencies resulting in bad debt or inventory exposures that are in excess of our reserves; • our ability to efficiently move manufacturing activities to lower cost regions without adversely affecting customer relationships and while controlling costs related to the closure of facilities and employee severance; • pricing and other competitive pressures; • fluctuations in component prices; • political and economic developments in countries in which we have operations; • component shortages, which could cause us to be unable to meet customer delivery schedules; • timing of new product development by our customers which creates demand for our services; and • levels of demand in the end markets served by our customers. 26 A portion of our operating expenses is relatively fixed in nature and planned expenditures are based in part on anticipated orders, which are difficult to predict. If we do not receive anticipated orders as expected, our profitability will decline. Moreover, our ability to reduce our costs as a result of current or future restructuring efforts may be limited because consolidation of operations can be a costly and lengthy process to complete. Consolidation in the electronics industry may adversely affect our business by increasing competition or customer buying power and increasing prices we pay for components. Consolidation in the electronics industry among our customers, our suppliers and/or our competitors may increase as companies combine to achieve further economies of scale and other synergies, especially in light of the worldwide economic downturn. Consolidation in the electronics industry could result in an increasing number of very large electronics companies offering products in multiple sectors of the electronics industry. The significant purchasing and market power of these large companies could increase competitive pressures on us. In addition, if one of our customers is acquired by another company that does not rely on us to provide EMS services either because it has its own production facilities or relies on another provider of similar services, we may lose that customer’s business. There can be no assurance the new owner of our customer will continue to purchase products from us after the acquisition has been completed. In addition, consolidation in the electronics industry may also result in excess manufacturing capacity among EMS companies, which could drive our profitability down. Similarly, consolidation among our suppliers could result in a sole or limited source for certain components used in our customers’ products. Any such consolidation could cause us to be required to pay increased prices for such components, which would reduce our gross margin and profitability. Our early redemptions of debt and repurchases of stock have reduced our working capital and liquidity. During 2009, we repurchased $46.9 million of our debt in the open market and we also repurchased 10.1 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate of $29.2 million. Further, on November 16, 2009, we redeemed our remaining outstanding debt due in 2010 for $175.7 million plus accrued interest. These repurchases have reduced our working capital. Although the redemptions of debt improve our operating results by reducing our interest expense, the redemptions and stock repurchases have reduced our liquidity. If we should repurchase or redeem additional debt or equity, our working capital and liquidity would be further reduced. 27 Adverse changes in the key end markets we target could harm our business by reducing our sales. We provide EMS services to companies that sell products in the communications, computing and storage, multimedia, industrial and semiconductor systems, defense and aerospace, medical and automotive sectors of the electronics industry. Adverse changes in these markets could reduce demand for our customers’ products and make these customers more sensitive to the cost of our EMS services, either of which could reduce our sales, gross margins and net income. Factors affecting any of our customers’ industries in general, or our customers in particular, could seriously harm our business. These factors include: • short product life cycles leading to continuing new requirements and specifications for our customers products, the failure of which to meet could cause us to lose business; • failure of our customers’ products to gain widespread commercial acceptance which could decrease the volume of orders customers place with us; and • recessionary periods in our customers’ markets which decrease orders from affected customers. We rely on a relatively small number of customers for a substantial portion of our sales, and declines in sales to these customers would reduce our net sales and net income. Although no single customer generates 10% or more of our sales, a significant portion of our sales is generated by a small number of customers. Sales to our ten largest customers represented 48.0% of our net sales during fiscal 2009. We expect to continue to depend upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant percentage of our sales. Consolidation among our customers may further concentrate our business in a limited number of customers and expose us to increased risks related to dependence on a small number of customers. In addition, a significant reduction in sales to any of our large customers or significant pricing and margin pressures exerted by a customer would adversely affect our operating results. In the past, some of our large customers have significantly reduced or delayed the volume of manufacturing services ordered from us as a result of changes in their business, consolidations or divestitures or for other reasons. In particular, certain of our customers have from time to time entered into manufacturing divestiture transactions with other EMS companies, and such transactions could adversely affect our revenues with these customers. We cannot assure you that present or future large customers will not terminate their manufacturing arrangements with us or significantly change, reduce or delay the amount of manufacturing services ordered from us, any of which would reduce our net sales and net income. 28 We generally do not obtain long-term volume purchase commitments from customers and, therefore, cancellations, reductions in production quantities and delays in production by our customers could reduce our sales and net income. We generally do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers. As a result, customers may cancel their orders, reduce production quantities or delay production for a number of reasons. In the event our customers experience significant decreases in demand for their products and services, our customers may cancel orders, delay the delivery of some of the products that we manufacture or place purchase orders for fewer products than we previously anticipated. Even when our customers are contractually obligated to purchase products from us, we may be unable or, for other business reasons, choose not to enforce our contractual rights. Cancellations, reductions or delays of orders by customers would: • reduce our sales and net income by decreasing the volumes of products that we manufacture for our customers; • delay or eliminate recovery of our expenditures for inventory purchased in preparation for customer orders; and • lower our asset utilization, which would result in lower gross margins and lower net income. In addition, customers are increasingly requiring that we transfer the manufacturing of their products from one facility to another to achieve cost reductions and other objectives. These transfers have resulted in increased costs to us due to facility downtime or less than optimal utilization of our manufacturing capacity. These transfers also have required us to close or reduce operations at certain facilities, particularly those in high cost locations such as the United States, Canada and Western Europe, and as a result we have incurred significant costs for the closure of facilities, employee severance and related matters. We also have encountered occasional delays and complications related to the transition of manufacturing programs to new locations. We may be required to relocate our manufacturing operations in the future and, accordingly, we may incur additional costs that decrease our net income. We may experience component shortages, which could cause us to delay shipments to customers and reduce our sales and net income. We are dependent on certain suppliers, including limited and sole source suppliers, to provide key components we incorporate into our products. We have experienced in the past, and may experience in the future, delays in component deliveries, which in turn could cause delays in product shipments and require the redesign of certain products. In particular, we have experienced shortages of application-specific integrated circuits, capacitors and connectors as well as other components. Unanticipated component shortages prevent us from making scheduled shipments to customers and could cause us to experience a shortfall in sales, increase our costs and adversely affect our relationship with the affected customer and our reputation generally as a reliable service provider. Component shortages may also increase our cost of goods sold because we may be required to pay higher prices for components in short supply and redesign or reconfigure products to accommodate substitute components. In addition, we may purchase components in advance of our requirements for those components as a result of a threatened or anticipated shortage. In this event, we may incur additional inventory carrying costs, for which we may not be compensated, and have a heightened risk of exposure to inventory obsolescence. As a result, component shortages could adversely affect our operating results for a particular period due to the resulting sales shortfall and increased manufacturing or component costs. 29 If demand for our higher-end, higher margin manufacturing services does not increase, our future gross margins and operating results may be lower than expected. We typically earn lower gross margins when we provide less complex EMS services. In addition, we experience continued pressure from OEMs to reduce prices, and competition remains intense. Pricing pressure is typically more intense for less complex, lower margin EMS services. This price competition has affected, and could continue to adversely affect, our gross margins. If demand for our higher-end, higher margin manufacturing services does not increase in the future, our gross margins and operating results in future periods may be lower than expected. We are subject to risks arising from our international operations. We conduct our international operations primarily in Asia, Latin America, Canada and Europe, and we continue to consider additional opportunities to make foreign acquisitions and construct new foreign facilities. We generated 76.9% of our net sales from non-U.S. operations during 2009, and a significant portion of our manufacturing material was provided by international suppliers during this period. As a result of our international operations, we are affected by economic and political conditions in foreign countries, including: · the imposition of government controls; · difficulties in obtaining or complying with export license requirements; · political and economic instability, including armed conflicts; · trade restrictions; · changes in tariffs; · labor unrest and difficulties in staffing; · inflexible employee contracts in the event of business downturns; · coordinating communications among and managing international operations; · fluctuations in currency exchange rates; · currency controls; · increases in duty and/or income tax rates; · adverse rulings in regards to tax audits; · compliance with U.S. and foreign laws concerning trade; · excess costs associated with reducing employment or shutting down facilities; · misappropriation of intellectual property; and · constraints on our ability to maintain or increase prices. 30 Our operations in certain foreign locations receive favorable income tax treatment in the form of tax holidays or other incentives. In the event that such tax holidays or other incentives are not extended, are repealed, or we no longer qualify for such programs, our taxes may increase, which would reduce our net income. Additionally, certain foreign jurisdictions restrict the amount of cash that can be transferred to the U.S or impose taxes and penalties on such transfers of cash. To the extent we have excess cash in foreign locations that could be used in, or is needed by, our U.S. operations, we may incur significant penalties and/or taxes to repatriate these funds. To respond to competitive pressures and customer requirements, we may further expand internationally in lower cost locations, particularly in Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America. As we pursue continued expansion in these locations, we may incur additional capital expenditures. In addition, the cost structure in certain countries that are now considered to be favorable may increase as economies develop or as such countries join multinational economic communities or organizations, causing local wages to rise. As a result, we may need to continue to seek new locations with lower costs and the employee and infrastructure base to support electronics manufacturing. We cannot assure you that we will realize the anticipated strategic benefits of our international operations or that our international operations will contribute positively to our operating results. We can experience losses due to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, which would reduce our net income. Because we manufacture and sell a substantial portion of our products abroad, our operating costs are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Specifically, if the U.S. dollar weakens against the foreign currencies in which we denominate certain of our trade accounts payable, fixed purchase obligations and other expenses, the U.S. dollar equivalent of such expenses would increase. We use financial instruments, primarily short-term foreign currency forward contracts, to hedge certain forecasted foreign currency commitments arising from trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable and fixed purchase obligations. Our foreign currency hedging activities depend largely upon the accuracy of our forecasts of future sales, expenses and monetary assets and liabilities. As such, our foreign currency forward contracts may exceed or not cover our full exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. If these hedging activities are not successful, we may experience significant unexpected expenses from fluctuations in exchange rates. Although we believe our foreign exchange hedging policies are reasonable and prudent under the circumstances, we can provide no assurances that we will not experience losses arising from unhedged currency fluctuations in the future, which could be significant. 31 Unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could increase our taxes and decrease our net income. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and, in the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws and other factors. Our tax determinations are regularly subject to audit by tax authorities and developments in those audits could adversely affect our income tax provision. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes may be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions which could lead to an increase in our taxes payable and a decrease in our net income. We may be unable to obtain sufficient financing to maintain or expand our operations, which may cause our stock price to fall and reduce the business our customers and vendors do with us. In order to allow us to better manage our working capital requirements, we entered into a five-year $135 million credit facility in November 2008. Should we need additional sources of liquidity above and beyond such facility, we cannot be certain that financing will be available on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, although we seek high quality counterparties for our financing arrangements, there can be no assurance that any such counterparty will be able to provide credit when and as required by our current or future financing arrangements. If additional financing, including an expansion of the existing credit facility, is not available when required, our ability to maintain or increase our rates of production, expand our manufacturing capacity or refinance our outstanding debt will be harmed, which could cause our stock price to fall and reduce our customers’ and vendors’ willingness to do business with us. If we are unable to comply with the covenants in our credit arrangements, our outstanding debt could become immediately payable. Our debt agreements do not contain financial covenants currently applicable to us, but do include a number of restrictive covenants, including prohibitions on incurring additional debt, making investments and other restricted payments, paying dividends and redeeming or repurchasing capital stock and debt, subject to certain exceptions. In addition, such agreements include affirmative covenants requiring, among other things, that we file quarterly and annual financial statements with the SEC. If we are not able to comply with all of these covenants, for any reason, some or all of our outstanding debt could become immediately due and payable and the incurrence of additional debt under the new credit facility would not be allowed. If our cash is utilized to repay outstanding debt, we could experience an immediate and significant reduction in working capital available to operate our business. 32 Our failure to comply with applicable environmental laws could adversely affect our business by causing us to pay significant amounts for clean up of hazardous materials or for damages or fines. We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including those governing the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes in the ordinary course of our manufacturing operations. We also are subject to laws and regulations governing the recyclability of products, the materials that may be included in products, and the obligations of a manufacturer to dispose of these products after end users have finished using them. If we violate environmental laws, we may be held liable for damages and the costs of remedial actions and we may be subject to revocation of permits necessary to conduct our businesses. We cannot assure you that we will not violate environmental laws and regulations in the future as a result of human error, equipment failure or other causes. Although we estimate our potential liability with respect to violations or alleged violations and accrue for such liability, we cannot assure you that our accruals will be sufficient to cover the actual costs we incur as a result of these violations or alleged violations. Our failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could limit our ability to expand facilities or could require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses to comply with these laws and regulations. Asbestos containing materials, or ACM are present at several of our manufacturing facilities. Although the ACM is being managed and controls have been put in place pursuant to ACM operations and maintenance plans, the presence of ACM could give rise to remediation obligations and other liabilities. No governmental or third-party claims relating to ACM have been brought at this time. Our plants generally operate under environmental permits issued by governmental authorities. For the most part, these permits must be renewed periodically and are subject to revocation in the event of violations of environmental laws. Although we have not experienced any material revocations to date, any such revocation could require us to cease or limit production at one or more of our facilities, thereby having an adverse impact on our results of operations. Primarily as a result of certain of our acquisitions, we have incurred liabilities associated with environmental contamination. These liabilities include ongoing investigation and remediation activities at a number of sites, including our facilities located in Irvine, California (a former facility acquired as part of our acquisition of Elexsys); Owego, New York (a current facility that we acquired with our acquisition of Hadco Corporation); Derry, New Hampshire (a non-operating facility of Hadco), Fort Lauderdale, Florida (a former facility of Hadco) and Phoenix, Arizona (a site we acquired with our acquisition of Hadco). We have been named in a lawsuit alleging operations at our former facility in Santa Ana, California arising from our Elexsys acquisition contributed to groundwater contamination. There can be no assurance that any other similar third-party claims will not arise and will not result in material liability to us. In addition, there are some sites, including our facility in Gunzenhausen, Germany (acquired from Alcatel), that are known to have groundwater contamination caused by a third-party, and that third-party has provided indemnity to us for the liability. 33 We have also been named as a potentially responsible party at one contaminated disposal site, operated by another party at the Casmalia Resources site, as a result of the past disposal of hazardous waste by companies we have acquired or by our corporate predecessors. Although liabilities for such historical disposal activities have not materially affected our financial condition to date, we cannot assure you that past disposal activities will not result in liability that will materially affect us in the future, nor can we provide assurance that we do not have environmental exposures of which we are unaware and which could adversely affect our operating results. Over the years, environmental laws have become, and in the future may continue to become, more stringent, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violations. We operate in several environmentally sensitive locations and are subject to potentially conflicting and changing regulatory agendas of political, business and environmental groups. Changes in or restrictions on discharge limits, emissions levels, permitting requirements and material storage or handling could require a higher than anticipated level of operating expenses and capital investment or, depending on the severity of the impact of the foregoing factors, costly plant relocation. In addition, the electronics industry became subject to the RoHS and WEEE directives which took effect beginning in 2005. Parallel initiatives have been adopted in other jurisdictions, including several states in the United States and the People’s Republic of China. RoHS prohibits the use of lead, mercury and certain other specified substances in electronics products and WEEE requires industry OEMs to assume responsibility for the collection, recycling and management of waste electronic products and components. Although we believe we have implemented procedures to make our manufacturing process RoHS compliant, non-compliance could result in significant costs and/or penalties. In the case of WEEE, the compliance responsibility rests primarily with OEMs rather than with EMS companies. However, OEMs may turn to EMS companies for assistance in meeting their WEEE obligations, which could increase our costs. If we manufacture or design defective products, or if our manufacturing processes do not comply with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements, we could be subject to damages and fines and lose customers. We manufacture products to our customers’ specifications, and in some cases our manufacturing processes and facilities may need to comply with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements. For example, many of the medical devices that we manufacture, as well as the facilities and manufacturing processes that we use to produce them, are regulated by the United States Food and Drug Administration. In addition, our customers’ products and the manufacturing processes that we use to produce them often are highly complex. As a result, products that we design or manufacture may at times contain design or manufacturing defects, and our manufacturing processes may be subject to errors or may not be in compliance with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements. Defects in the products we design or manufacture may result in repair costs, delayed shipments to customers or reduced or cancelled customer orders. If these defects or deficiencies are significant, our business reputation may also be damaged. The failure of the products that we design or manufacture or of our manufacturing processes and facilities to comply with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements may subject us to legal fines or penalties and, in some cases, require us to shut down or incur considerable expense to correct a manufacturing program or facility. In addition, these defects may result in product liability claims against us. The magnitude of such claims may increase as we expand our medical, automotive, and aerospace and defense manufacturing services because defects in medical devices, automotive components and aerospace and defense systems could seriously harm users of these products. Even if our customers are responsible for defects in the design of a product, we could nonetheless be named in a product liability suit over such defects and could be required to expend significant resources defending ourselves. 34 If our products are subject to warranty or liability claims, we may incur significant costs, which would reduce our net income. Our customers may experience defects in our designs or deficiencies with respect to our manufacturing services. We may be exposed to warranty or manufacturers’ liability claims as a result of these defects or deficiencies, and some claims may relate to customer product recalls. We also design products on a contract basis or jointly with our customers. The design services that we provide can expose us to different or greater potential liabilities than those we face when providing our regular manufacturing services. For example, we have increased exposure to potential product liability claims resulting from injuries caused by defects in products we design, as well as potential claims that products we design infringe third-party intellectual property rights. Such claims could subject us to significant liability for damages and, regardless of their merits, could be time-consuming and expensive to resolve. A claim for damages arising from such defects or deficiencies could damage our reputation and result in us being liable for the costs of return and repair of such defective products or for damages for any injuries or other losses incurred by our customers or their end users. Any such costs could be significant and would reduce our net income. We may not be successful in implementing and integrating strategic transactions or in divesting non-strategic assets, which could cause our financial results to fail to meet our forecasts. From time to time, we may undertake strategic transactions that give us the opportunity to access new customers and new end-customer markets, to obtain new manufacturing and service capabilities and technologies, to enter new geographic manufacturing locations, to lower our manufacturing costs and improve the margins on our product mix, and to further develop existing customer relationships. Strategic transactions involve many difficulties and uncertainties, including the following: • integrating acquired operations and businesses; • allocating management resources; • scaling up production and coordinating management of operations at new sites; • separating operations or support infrastructure for entities divested; • managing and integrating operations in geographically dispersed locations; • maintaining customer, supplier or other favorable business relationships of acquired operations and terminating unfavorable relationships; • integrating the acquired company’s systems into our management information systems; • addressing unforeseen liabilities of acquired businesses, including environmental liabilities; • operating in the geographic market or industry sector of the business acquired in which we may have little or no experience; • improving and expanding our management information systems to accommodate expanded operations; and • losing key employees of acquired operations. 35 Any of these factors could prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits of a strategic transaction, and our failure to realize these benefits could reduce our sales below and increase our costs above our forecasts. We may not be successful in identifying future strategic opportunities or in consummating any strategic transactions that we pursue on favorable terms, if at all. Although our goal is to improve our business and maximize stockholder value, any transactions that we complete may ultimately fail to increase our sales and net income and stock price. Restructuring of our operations could require us to take an accounting charge which would reduce our net income. We have incurred significant expenses related to restructuring of our operations in the past. For example, we have moved certain of our operations from higher-cost to lower-cost locations to meet customer requirements. Future changes in our customers’ requirements or in our tax strategies could result in the need for us to further restructure our operations. In addition, we have incurred unanticipated costs related to the transfer of operations to lower-cost locations, including costs related to integrating new facilities, managing operations in dispersed locations and realigning our business processes. We also have incurred costs related to workforce reductions, work stoppages and labor unrest resulting from the closure of our facilities in higher-cost locations. We may be required to record additional charges related to restructuring activities in the future, but cannot predict the timing of such charges. Any such charges would reduce our net income. Our key personnel are critical to the continued growth of our business and we cannot assure you that they will remain with us. Our success depends upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key personnel. Generally, these employees are not bound by employment or non-competition agreements. We cannot assure you that we will retain our officers and key employees, particularly our highly skilled operations managers and engineers involved in the manufacture of existing products and development of new products and processes. The competition for these employees is intense. In addition, if one or more of our executive officers or key employees were to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us or otherwise be unavailable to us, we could lose customers and our sales and gross margins could decrease. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property or infringe, or are alleged to infringe, upon intellectual property of others, we could lose sales or be required to pay significant amounts in costs or damages. We rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology. Any failure to protect our intellectual property rights would diminish or eliminate the competitive advantages that we derive from our proprietary technology. 36 We may become involved in litigation in the future to protect our intellectual property or because others may allege that we infringe on their intellectual property. These claims and any resulting lawsuits could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidate our proprietary rights. In addition, these lawsuits, regardless of their merits, likely would be time consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert management’s time and attention. Any potential intellectual property litigation alleging our infringement of a third-party’s intellectual property also could force us or our customers to: • stop producing products that use the challenged intellectual property; • obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property a license to sell the relevant technology at an additional cost, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; or • redesign those products or services that use the infringed technology. Any costs we incur from having to take any of these actions could be substantial. We may not have sufficient insurance coverage for certain of the risks and liabilities we assume in connection with the products and services we provide to our customers, which could leave us responsible for certain costs and damages incurred by our customers. We carry various forms of business and liability insurance that we believe are reasonable and customary for similarly situated companies in our industry. However, we do not have insurance coverage for all of the risks and liabilities we assume in connection with the products and services we provide to our customers, such as potential warranty, product liability and product recall claims. As a result, such liability claims may only be partially covered under our insurance policies. We continue to monitor the insurance marketplace to evaluate the availability of and need to obtain additional insurance coverage. However, should we sustain a significant uncovered loss, our net income would be reduced. Changes in financial accounting standards or policies have affected, and in the future may affect, our reported financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, changes in securities laws and regulations have increased, and are likely to continue to increase, our operating costs. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or U.S. GAAP. Our preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the recorded amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of those assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the recorded amounts of expenses during the reporting period. A change in the facts and circumstances surrounding those estimates could result in a change to our estimates and could impact our future operating results. 37 In addition, these principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in those policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions which are completed before a change is announced. Accounting policies affecting many other aspects of our business, including rules relating to revenue recognition, off-balance sheet transactions, stock-based compensation, restructurings, asset disposals and asset retirement obligations, intangible assets, derivative and other financial instruments and in-process research and development charges, have recently been revised or are under review. Changes to those rules or the questioning of how we interpret or implement those rules may have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results or on the way we conduct business. For example, the SEC has recently proposed a timetable by which U.S. companies would adopt International Financial Reporting Standards. Although at a very early stage of consideration by regulatory agencies, adoption of such standards could substantially change our reporting practices in a number of areas, including revenue recognition and recording of assets and liabilities. Finally, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 required changes in our corporate governance, public disclosure and compliance practices. The number of rules and regulations applicable to us has increased and may continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and increased the amount of time management must devote to compliance activities, such as the requirement for management to annually report in our annual report its conclusions concerning the effectiveness of our system of internal control over financial reporting. These developments could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and qualified executive officers in light of an increase in actual or perceived liability for serving in such positions. The impact of price fluctuations could reduce our net income. The cost of commodities, parts and components used in the manufacturing of our products has fluctuated significantly in the past. Should we not be successful in adjusting our pricing to account for such fluctuations, our gross margins, and therefore net income, would decline. We are subject to a continuing government investigation concerning our historical stock option practices, which could result in our liability for significant penalties and costs. As a result of an investigation of our accounting for stock options, we filed a comprehensive Form 10-K for 2006 which restated our consolidated financial statements for prior years and which reduced our net income due to mispriced stock options granted in prior periods. Following this filing, we became subject to federal and state lawsuits, as well as investigations by the SEC and the Department of Justice (“DoJ”). Of these matters, only the DoJ investigation remains open, all other matters having been concluded. We cannot predict the final resolution of the DoJ investigation, which could result in the payment of significant penalties and costs to indemnify current or former officers and directors of the Company. 38 We are subject to risks associated with natural disasters and global events. We conduct a significant portion of our activities including manufacturing, administration and data processing at facilities located in the State of California and other seismically active areas that have experienced major earthquakes in the past, as well as other natural disasters. Our insurance coverage with respect to natural disasters is limited and is subject to deductibles and coverage limits. Such coverage may not be adequate or continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates and terms. In the event of a major earthquake or other disaster affecting one or more of our facilities, our operations and management information systems could be significantly disrupted. Such events could also delay or prevent product manufacturing and shipment for the time required to transfer production, repair, rebuild or replace the affected manufacturing facilities. This time frame could be lengthy and result in significant expenses for repair and related costs. In addition, concerns about terrorism or an outbreak of epidemic diseases could have a negative effect on travel and our business operations and result in reduced sales and net income. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 39 