Item 1A. Risk Factors We may experience component shortages or price increases, which could cause us to delay shipments to customers and reduce our sales and net income. We are dependent on certain suppliers, including limited and sole source suppliers, to provide key components we incorporate into our products. We are experiencing, and may continue to experience in the future, delays in component deliveries, which in turn could cause delays in product shipments to customers, result in reduced revenue from and have an adverse effect on our relationship with the affected customer, and our reputation generally as a reliable service provider. In addition, component shortages, whether anticipated or not, can increase our cost of goods sold and therefore decrease our gross margin since we may be required to pay higher prices for components in short supply and redesign or reconfigure products to accommodate substitute components. Additionally, we may purchase components in advance of our requirements for those components as a result of a threatened or anticipated shortage. In this event, we may incur additional inventory carrying costs, for which we may not be compensated, and have a heightened risk of exposure to inventory obsolescence, the cost of which may not be recoverable from our customers. Such costs would reduce our margins and net income. F inally, the growing scarcity of such components may require us to look to second tier vendors or to procure components through brokers. Such components may be of lesser quality than those otherwise available and could cause us to incur costs to qualify such components or to replace them if they prove to be defective. In some cases, suppliers seek to obtain credit insurance for our or our subsidiaries' payment obligations as a condition to continuing to do business with us. Should such insurance not be available or if we are not otherwise able to guarantee our subsidiaries' payment obligations, our ability to continue to procure components and deliver manufactured products to our customers could be adverse impacted. Contin ued adverse market conditions in the electronics industry could reduce our future sales and earnings per share. The business environment in the electronics industry has been challenging recently due to adverse worldwide economic conditions. In particular, there has been an erosion of global consumer confidence amidst concerns over declining asset values, price instability, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, rising unemployment, and the stability and solvency of financial institutions, financial markets, businesses, and sovereign nations. These concerns slowed global economic growth and resulted in recessions in many countries, including in the U.S., Europe and certain countries in Asia. The conditions have resulted, and may result in the future, in our customers delaying purchases of the products we manufacture for them and our customers placing purchase orders for lower volumes of products than previously experienced or anticipated. We cannot accurately predict future levels of demand for our customers' electronics products. Consequently, our past operating results, earnings and cash flows may not be indicative of our future operating results, earnings and cash flows. If these economic conditions continue to exist, in addition to our customers or potential customers reducing or delaying orders, a number of other negative effects on our business could result, including the insolvency of key suppliers, which could result in production delays, shorter payment terms from suppliers due to reduced availability of credit default insurance in the market, the inability of customers to obtain credit, and the insolvency of one or more customers. Any of these effects could impact our ability to effectively manage inventory levels and collect receivables, increase our need for cash, and decrease our net revenue and profitability. Many of the industries to which we provide products have previously experienced significant financial difficulty, with some of the participants filing for bankruptcy. Such significant financial difficulty, if experienced by one or more of our customers, may negatively affect our business due to the decreased demand of these financially distressed customers, the potential inability of thes e companies to make full payment on amounts owed to us, or both. For example, one of our customers, Nortel Networks, has filed a petition for reorganization under bankruptcy law. As a result of this filing, in the first quarter of 2009, we reversed revenue and recorded an inventory provision in an aggregate amount of $10 million with respect to this customer. We do not carry insurance against the risk of customer default on their payment obligations to us. We may be unable to obtain sufficient financing to reduce our debt levels or maintain or expand our operations, which may cause our stock price to fall and reduce the business our customers and vendors do with us. Our liquidity needs are largely dependent on changes in working capital, including investments in manufacturing inventory, facilities and equipment, the extension of trade credit by our suppliers, repayments of obligations under outstanding indebtedness and repurchases of our outstanding debt. In order to allow us to better manage our working capital requirements, we entered into a five-year $135 million asset-backed credit facility in November 2008, which we later increased to $235 million. Should we need additional sources of liquidity above and beyond such facilities, we cannot be certain that financing will be available on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, the amounts borrowable under our credit facility depend upon our asset levels and, as such, there is no guarantee that suff icient amounts will be available to borrow therefrom when needed. In 18Table of Contentsthis regard, we were eligible to borrow approximately $115.9 million under our credit facility as of October 2, 2010. In the event we need additional capital, there is no guarantee that the debt or equity markets will be receptive to our efforts to raise additional capital. New financing arrangements, if available, could result in us issuing additional equity securities, which could cause dilution to existing stockholders. If additional or continued financing, including the continued extension of trade credit by our suppliers, is not available when required, our ability to repay, reduce or refinance our debt levels, maintain or increase our rates of production and expand our manufacturing capacity, as well as our overall liquidity, will be harmed, which could cause our stock price to fall and reduce our customers' and vendors' willingness to do business with us. We could experience credit problems with our customers, which would reduce our future revenues and net income. While we seek to mitigate the impact of collection problems with our customers on our financial results by evaluating their creditworthiness on an ongoing basis and by maintaining an allowance for doubtful accounts that is assessed for adequacy quarterly, recent economic conditions have caused an increasing number of our customers to extend or default on their payments, declare bankruptcy or both. For example, one of our customers, Nortel Networks, filed a petition for reorganization under bankruptcy law. As a result of this filing, in the first quarter of 2009, we reversed revenue and recorded an inventory provision in an aggregate amount of $10 million with respect to this customer. In addition, in the third quarter of 2010, we increased our bad debt reserve due to customer defaults. Should customer defaults increase substantially or exceed the level of our allowance, our revenue, net i ncome and cash position would be reduced, perhaps significantly. We are subject to intense competition in the EMS industry which could cause us to lose sales and therefore hurt our financial performance. The EMS industry is highly competitive and the industry has been experiencing a surplus of manufacturing capacity, particularly in light of the recent slowdown in the U.S. and international economies. Our competitors include major global EMS providers such as Celes tica, Inc., Flextronics International Ltd., Hon Hai (Foxconn) and Jabil Circuit, Inc., as well as other EMS companies that have a regional, product, service or industry specific focus. Some of those companies have greater manufacturing and financial resources than we do. We also face competition from current and potential OEM customers who may elect to manufacture their own products internally rather than outsourcing to EMS providers. We may not be able to offer prices as low as some of our competitors because those competitors may have lower operating costs as a result of their geographic location or the services they provide or because these competitors are willing to provide EMS services at prices that result in lower gro ss margins in order to utilize more of their capacity. If we are unable or unwilling to offer prices that are competitive with other EMS companies, our net sales may decline. There can be no assurance that we will not lose business in the future in response to such competitive pricing or other inducements which may be offered by our competitors. Our operating results are subject to significant uncertainties, which make predictability of our future sales and net income difficult. Our operating results are subject to significant uncertainties, including: • conditions in the economy as a whole and in the electronics industry;• component shortages, which could cause us to be unable to meet customer delivery schedules;• timing of orders from customers and the accuracy of their forecasts;• timing of expenditures in anticipation of increased sales, customer product delivery requirements and shortages of components or labor;• mix of products ordered by and shipped to major customers, as high volume and low complexity manufacturing services typically have lower gross margins than more complex and lower volume services;• degree to which we are able to utilize our available manufacturing capacity;• our ability to effectively plan production and manage our inventory and fixed assets;• customer insolvencies resulting in b ad debt or inventory exposures that are in excess of our reserves;• our ability to efficiently move manufacturing activities to lower cost regions without adversely affecting customer relationships and while controlling costs related to the closure of facilities and employee severance;19Table of Contents• pricing and other competitive pressures; • fluctuations in the values of our assets, including real property and assets held for sale, which could result in charges to income;• fluctuations in component prices;• political and economic developments in countries in which we have operations;• timing of new product development by our customers which creates demand for our services;• levels of demand in the end markets served by our customers;• volatility of foreign currency exchange rates; and• changes in our tax provision due to our estimates of pre-tax income in the jurisdictions in which we operate.A portion of our operating expenses is relatively fixed in nature and planned expenditures are based in part on anticipated orders, which are difficult to predict. If we do not receive anticipated orders as expected, our profitability will decline. Moreover, our ability to reduce our costs as a result of current or future restructuring efforts may be limited because consolidation of operations can be a costly and lengthy process to complete. Our strategy to pursue higher margin business depends in part on the success of our components business, which if not successful, could cause our future gross margins and operating results to be lower. Our components business, which includes PCB, mechanical systems, optical components and cabling manufacturing, is a key part of our strategy to grow our future margins and profitability by expanding our vertical integration capabilities. In order to grow this portion of our business profitably, we must continue to make substantial investments in the development of our components capabilities, in research and development activities, test and tooling equipment and skilled personnel. Given the relatively higher fixed cost structure of this business, our success is greatly dependent upon obtaining sufficient orders for our components products which is difficult to predict. The success of our components business also depends on our ability to achieve commercially viable production yields and to manufacture components in commerci al quantities to the specifications and quality standards required by customers. In particular, our customers require that all new components used in their products be qualified in advance. Such process can be costly both in terms of time and cost and may not result in the customers' acceptance of our components. Any of these factors could cause components revenue or margins to be less than expected, which would have an overall adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Our early redemptions of debt and repurchases of stock have reduced our working capital and liquidity. During 2009, we repurchased $46.9 million of our debt in the open market and we also repurchased 10.1 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate of $29.2 million. Further, during 2010, we redeemed $195.7 million of our long-term debt in the open market. These repurchases and redemptions have reduced our working capital. Although the redemptions of debt improve our operating results by reducing our interest expense, the redemptions and stock repurchases have reduced our liquidity. If we should repurchase or redeem additional debt or equity, our working capital and liquidity would be further reduced. Adve rse changes in the key end markets we target could harm our business by reducing our sales. We provide EMS services to companies that sell products in the communications networks; industrial, defense and medical; enterprise computingand storage; and multimedia markets. Adverse changes in these markets could reduce demand for our customers' products and make these customers more sensitive to the cost of our EMS services, either of which could reduce our sales, gross margins and net income. Factors affecting any of our customers' industries in general, or our customers in particular, could seriously harm our business. These factors include: • short product life cycles leading to continuing new requirements and specifications for our customers products, the failure of which to meet could cause us to lose business;• failure of our customers' products to gain widespread commercial acceptance which could decrease the volume of orders customers place with us; and• recessionary periods in our customers' markets which decrease orders from affected customers.20Table of ContentsWe rely on a relatively small number of customers for a substantial portion of our sales, and declines in sales to these customers would reduce our net sales and net income. One customer represented approximately 11% of our net s ales and sales to our ten largest customers represented 49.9% of our net sales during fiscal 2010. We expect to continue to depend upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant percentage of our sales. Consolidation among our customers may further concentrate our business in a limited number of customers and expose us to increased risks related to dependence on a small number of customers. In addition, a significant reduction in sales to any of our large customers or significant pricing and margin pressures exerted by such a customer would adversely affect our operating results. In the past, some of our large customers have significantly reduced or delayed the volume of manufacturing services ordered from us as a result of changes in their business, consolidations or divestitures or for other reasons. In particular, certain of our customers have from time to time entered into manufacturing divestiture transactions with other EMS companies, and such transactions could adversely affect our revenues with these customers. We cannot assure you that present or future large customers will not terminate their manufacturing arrangements with us or significantly change, reduce or delay the amount of manufacturing services ordered from us, any of which would reduce our net sales and net income. As a result of our components ordering policies, and customer-requested ship dates, we may incur carrying costs or not be compensated for components, work-in-process or finished goods, which would decrease our margins and net income. In order to satisfy customer orders, we are frequently required to order components and other parts in advance of customer payment, particularly for long lead-time items. Furthermore, we may be required to keep additional components, work-in-process and finished goods in inventory in order to meet customer delivery dates. While our supply agreements with our customers generally allocate most of the liability for payment for such items to the customers, we may nonetheless incur additional carrying costs or not ultimately be compensated for these items should the customer default upon its obligations. To the extent we incur any such costs, our gross margins and net income would be reduced. We generally do not obtain long-term volume purchase commitments from customers and, therefore, cancellations, reductions in production quantities and delays in production by our customers could reduce our sales and net income. We generally do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers and our bookings may generally be cancelled prior to the scheduled shipment date. Customers may cancel their orders, reduce production quantities or delay production for a number of reasons, including significant decreases in demand for their products and services. Although the customer is generally liable for finished goods and work-in-process at the time of cancellation, we may be unable or, fo r other business reasons, choose not to enforce our contractual rights. Cancellations, reductions or delays of orders by customers would: • reduce our sales and net income by decreasing the volumes of products that we manufacture for our customers;• delay or eliminate recovery of our expenditures for inventory purchased in preparation for customer orders; and• lower our a sset utilization, which would result in lower gross margins and lower net income.In addition, customers are increasingly requiring that we transfer the manufacturing of their products from one facility to another to achieve cost reductions and other objectives. These transfers have resulted in increased costs to us due to facility downtime or less than optimal utilization of our manufacturing capacity. These transfers also have required us to close or reduce operations at certain facilities, particularly those in high cost locations such as the United States, Canada and Western Europe, and as a result we have incurred significant costs for the closure of facilities, employee severance and related matters. We also have encountered occasional delays and complications related to the transition of manufacturing programs to new locations. We may be require d to relocate our manufacturing operations in the future and, accordingly, we may incur additional costs that decrease our net income. If demand for our higher-end, higher margin manufacturing services does not increase, our future gross margins and operating results may be lower than expected. We typically earn lower gross margins when we provide less complex EMS services. We experience continued pressure from OEMs to reduce prices, and competition remains intense . Pricing pressure is typically more intense for less complex, lower margin EMS services. This price competition has affected, and could continue to adversely affect, our gross margins. If demand for our higher-end, higher margin manufacturing services does not increase in the future, our gross margins and operating results in future periods may be lower than expected. 21Table of Contents Consolidation in the electronics industry may adversely affect our business by increasing competition or customer buying power and increasing prices we pay for components. Consolidation in the electronics industry among our customers, our suppliers and/or our competitors may increase as companies combine to achieve further economies of scale and other synergies. Consolidation in the electronics industry could result in an increasing number of very large electronics companies offering products in multiple sectors of the electronics industry. The significant purchasing and market power of these large companies could increase competitive pressures on us. In addition, if one of our customers is acquired by another company that does not rely on us to provide EMS services either because it has its own production facilities or relies on another provider of similar services, we may lose that customer's business. In addition, consolidation in the electronics industry may also result in excess manufacturing capacity among EMS companies, which could drive our profitability down. Similarly, consolidation among our suppliers could result in a sole or limited source for certain components used in our customers' products. Any such consolidation could cause us to be required to pay increased prices for such components, which would reduce our gross margin and profitability. We are subject to risks arising from our international operations. We conduct our international operations primarily in Asia, Latin America, Canada and Europe, and we continue to consider additional opportunities to make foreign acquisitions and construct new foreign facilities. We generated 79.0% of our net sales from non-U.S. operations in fiscal 2010 and a significant portion of our manufacturing material was provided by international suppliers during this period. As a result of our international operations, we are affected by economic and political conditions in foreign countries, including: • the imposition of government controls;• co mpliance with U.S. and foreign laws concerning trade;• difficulties in obtaining or complying with export license requirements; • trade restrictions;• changes in tariffs;• labor unrest and difficulties in staffing;• inflexible employee contracts in the event of business downturns;• coordinating communications among and managing international operations;• fluctuations in currency exchange rates; td>• currency controls;• increases in duty and/or income tax rates;• adverse rulings in regards to tax audits;• excess costs associated with reducing employment or shutting down facilities;• misappropriation of intellectual property; and• constraints on our ability to maintain or increase prices.Our operations in certain foreign locations receive favorable income tax treatment in the form of tax holidays or other incentives. In the event that such tax holidays or other incentives are not extended, are repealed, or we no longer qualify for such programs, our taxes may increase, which would reduce our net income. Additionally, a significant portion of our worldwide cash reserves are generated by, and therefore held in, foreign jurisdictions. Certain of such jurisdictions restrict the amount of cash that can be transferred to the U.S or impose taxes and penalties on such transfers of cash. To the extent we have excess cash in foreign locations that could be used in, or is needed by, our U.S. operations, we may incur significant taxes to repatriate these funds. 22Table of ContentsWe operate in countries that have experienced political unrest or instability or government controls over the conduct of business, including China, India, Thailand and other countries in Southeast Asia. Recently, in China, labor disputes and strikes based partly on wages have slowed or stopped production at certain manufacturers. In some cases, employers have responded by significantly increasing the wages of workers at such plants. In addition, regulatory authorities and others have increased their scrutiny of labor conditions in countries in which we operate. To the extent such developments result in more burdensome labor laws and regulations or require us to increase the wages of employees, our ability to adequately staff our plants and to manufacture and ship products in those jurisdictions could be adversely affected, our margins and net income could be reduced and our reputation as a reliable supplier could be negatively impacted. To respond to competitive pressures and customer requirements, we may further expand internationally in lower cost locations, particularly in Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America. As we pursue continued expansion in these locations, we may incur additional capital expenditures. In addition, the cost structure in certain countries that are now considered to be favorable may increase as economies develop or as such countries join multinational economic communities or organizations, causing local wages to rise. As a result, we may need to continue to seek new locations with lower costs and the employee a nd infrastructure base to support electronics manufacturing. We cannot assure you that we will realize the anticipated strategic benefits of our international operations or that our international operations will contribute positively to our operating results. Our international sales are subject to laws relating to trade, export controls and foreign corrupt practices, the violation of which could adversely affect our operations. We are required to comply with all applica ble domestic and foreign export control laws, including the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (“ITAR”) and the Export Administration Regulations (“EAR”). Some items manufactured by us are controlled for export by the United States Department of Commerce's Bureau of Industry and Security under the EAR. In addition, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and international counterparts that, generally, bar bribes or unreasonable gifts for foreign governments and officials. Violation of any of these laws or regulations could result in significant sanctions, including large monetary penalties and suspension or debarment from participation in future government contracts, which could reduce our future revenue and net income. We are subject to a number of U.S. governmental procurement rules and regulations, the failure to comply with which could result in damages or reduction of future revenue. We are subject to a number of laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of U.S. government contracts and subcontracts. Such laws and regulations govern, among other things, price negotiations, cost accounting standards and other aspects of performance under government contracts. These rules are complex and our performance under them is subject to audit by the Defense Contract Audit Agency and other government regulators. If an audit or investigation reveals a failure to comply with regulations or other improper a ctivities, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties and administrative sanctions by either the government or the prime customer, including termination of the contract, payment of fines and suspension or debarment from doing further business with the U.S. government. Any of these actions would increase our expenses, reduce our revenue and damage our reputation as a reliable government supplier. We can experience losses due to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, which would reduce our net income. Because we manufacture and sell a substantial portion of our products abroad, our operating costs are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. If the U.S. dollar weakens against the foreign currencies in which we denominate certain of our trade accounts payable, fixed purchase obligations and other expenses, the U.S. dollar equivalent of such expenses would increase. We use financial instruments, primarily short-term foreign currency forward contracts, to hedge certain forecasted foreign currency commitments arising from trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable and fixed purchase obligations. Our foreign currency hedging activities depend largely upon the accuracy of our forecasts of future sales, expenses, capital expenditures and monetary assets and liabilities. As such, our foreign currency forward contracts may exceed or not cover our full exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. If these hedging activities are not successful, we may experienc e significant unexpected expenses from fluctuations in exchange rates. Although we believe our foreign exchange hedging policies are reasonable and prudent under the circumstances, we can provide no assurances that we will not experience losses arising from currency fluctuations in the future, which could be significant. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could increase our taxes and decrease our net income. We are su bject to income, sales, value-added and other taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for taxes and, in the ordinary course of business, there 23Table of Contentsare many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax r ates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws and other factors. Our tax determinations are regularly subject to audit by tax authorities and developments in those audits could adversely affect our tax provisions, including through assessment of back taxes, interest and penalties. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes may be different from what is reflected in our historical tax provisions which could lead to an increase in our taxes payable and a decrease in our net income. Restructuring of our operations could require us to take an accounting charge which would reduce our net income. We have incurred significant expenses related to restructuring of our operations in the past. For example, we have moved, and may continue to move, our operations from higher-cost to lower-cost locations to meet customer requirements. We have incurred costs related to workforce reductions, work stoppages and labor unrest resulting from the closure of our facilities in higher cost locations. In addition, we have incurred unanticipated costs related to the transfer of operations to lower-cost locations, including costs related to integrating new facilities, managing operations in dispersed locations and realigning our business processes. We also have incurred costs to restructure operations that have been acquired in order to integrate them into our Company. We expect to be r equired to record additional charges related to restructuring activities in the future, but cannot predict the timing or amount of such charges. Any such charges would reduce our net income. Our credit arrangements contain covenants which may adversely impact our business and the failure to comply with such covenants could cause our outstanding debt to become immediately payable. Our debt agreements do not contain financial covenants currently applicable to us, but do include a number of negative covenants, including restrictions on incurring additional debt, making investments and other restricted payments, acquiring new businesses, paying dividends and redeeming or repurchasing capital stock and debt, subject to certain exceptions. These covenants could constrain our ability to grow our business through acquisition or engage in other transactions which the covenants would otherwise restrict. In addition, such agreements include affirmative covenants requiring, among other things, that we file quarterly and annual financial statements with the SEC. If we are not able to comply with all of these covenants, for any reason, some or all of our outstanding debt could become immediately due and payable and the incurrence of additional debt under the new credit facility would not be allowed. If our cash is utilized to repay outstanding debt, we could experience an immediate and significant reduction in working capital available to operate our business. Our failure to comply with applicable environmental laws could adversely affect our business by causing us to pay significant amounts for clean up of hazardous materials or for damages or fines. We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including those governing the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes in the ordinary course of our manufacturing operations. We also are subject to laws and regulations govern ing the recyclability of products, the materials that may be included in products, and the obligations of a manufacturer to dispose of these products after end users have finished using them. If we violate environmental laws, we may be held liable for damages and the costs of remedial actions and we may be subject to revocation of permits necessary to conduct our businesses. We cannot assure you that we will not violate environmental laws and regulations in the future as a result of human error, equipment failure or other causes. Although we estimate and regularly reassess our potential liability with respect to violations or alleged violations and accrue for such liability, we cannot assure you that our accruals will be sufficient to cover the actual costs we incur as a result of these violations or alleged violations or that no violations will not occur for which a reserve has not been established. Any increase in existing reserves or establishment of new reserves for environmental liability would reduce o ur net income. Our failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could also limit our ability to expand facilities or could require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses to comply with these laws and regulations. Asbestos containing materials, or ACM are present at several of our manufacturing facilities. Although the ACM is being managed and controls have been put in place pursuant to ACM operations and maintenance plans, the presence of ACM could give rise to remediation obligations and other liabilities. No governmental or third-party claims relating to ACM have been brought at this time. Our plants generally operate under environmental permits issued by governmental authorities. For the most part, these permits must be renewed periodically and are subject to revocation in the event of violations of environmental laws. Although we have not experienced any material revocations to date, any such revocation could require us to cease or limit production at one or more of our facilities, thereby having an adverse impact on our results of operations. 24Table of ContentsPrimarily as a result of certain of our acquisitions, we have incurred liabilities associated with environmental contamination. These liabilities include ongoing investigation and remediation activities at a number of sites, including our facilities located in Irvine, California (a former facility acquired as part of our acquisition of Elexsys); Owego, New York (a current facility that we acquired with our acquisition of Hadco Corporation); Derry, New Hampshire (a non-operating facility of Hadco) Fort Lauderdale, Florida (a former facility of Hadco) and Phoenix, Arizona (a site we acquired with our acquisition of Hadco). We have been named in a lawsuit alleging operations at our f ormer facility in Santa Ana, California arising from our Elexsys acquisition contributed to groundwater contamination. There can be no assurance that any other similar third-party claims will not arise and will not result in material liability to us. In addition, there are some sites, including our acquired facility in Gunzenhausen, Germany, that are known to have groundwater contamination caused by a third-party, and that third-party has provided indemnity to us for the liability. We have also been named as a potentially responsible party at one contaminated disposal site, operated by another party at the Casmalia Resources site in Southern California, as a result of the past disposal of hazardous waste by companies we have acquired o r by our corporate predecessors. Although liabilities for such historical disposal activities have not materially affected our financial condition to date, we cannot assure you that past disposal activities will not result in liability that will materially affect us in the future, nor can we provide assurance that we do not have environmental exposures of which we are unaware and which could adversely affect our operating results. Over the years, environmental laws have become, and in the future may continue to become, more stringent, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violations. We operate in several environmentally sensitive locations and are subject to potentially conflicting and changi ng regulatory agendas of political, business and environmental groups. Changes in or restrictions on discharge limits, emissions levels, permitting requirements and material storage or handling could require a higher than anticipated level of operating expenses and capital investment or, depending on the severity of the impact of the foregoing factors, costly plant relocation. In addition, the electronics industry became subject to the European Union's RoHS (Restriction of Hazardous Substances) and WEEE (Waste from Electrical and Electronic Equipment) directives which took effect beginning in 2005. Parallel initiatives have been adopted in other jurisdictions, including several states in the United States and the People's Republic of China . RoHS prohibits the use of lead, mercury and certain other specified substances in electronics products and WEEE requires industry OEMs to assume responsibility for the collection, recycling and management of waste electronic products and components. Although we believe we have implemented procedures to make our manufacturing process RoHS compliant, non-compliance could result in significant costs and/or penalties. In the case of WEEE, the compliance responsibility rests primarily with OEMs rather than with EMS companies. However, OEMs may turn to EMS companies for assistance in meeting their WEEE obligations, which could increase our costs. If we manufacture or design defective products, or if our manufac turing processes do not comply with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements, we could be subject to damages and fines and lose customers. We manufacture products to our customers' specifications, and in some cases our manufacturing processes and facilities may need to comply with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements. For example, many of the medical devices that we manufacture, as well as the facilities and manufacturing processes that we use to produce them, are regulated by the United States Food and Drug Administration. In addition, our customers' products and the manufacturing processes that we use to produce them often are highly complex. As a result, products that we design or manufacture may at times contain design or manufactu ring defects, and our manufacturing processes may be subject to errors or may not be in compliance with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements. Defects in the products we design or manufacture may result in product recalls, warranty claims by customers, including liability for repair costs, delayed shipments to customers or reduced or cancelled customer orders. If these defects or deficiencies are significant, our business reputation may also be damaged. The failure of the products that we design or manufacture or of our manufacturing processes and facilities to comply with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements may subject us to legal fines or penalties and, in some cases, require us to shut down or incur considerable expense to correct a manufacturing program or facility. In addition, these defects may result in product liability claims against us. The magnitude of such claims may increase as we expand our medical, automotive, and aerospace and defense manufacturing services because def ects in medical devices, automotive components and aerospace and defense systems could seriously harm users of these products. Even if our customers are responsible for defects in the design of a product, we could nonetheless be named in a product liability suit over such defects and could be required to expend significant resources defending ourselves. We also design products on a contract basis or jointly with our customers. The design services that we provide can expose us to different or greater potential liabilities than those we face when providing our regular manufacturing services. For example, we have increased exposure to potential product liability claims resulting from injuries caused by defects in products 25Table of Contentswe design, as well as potential claims that products we design infringe third-party intellectual property rights. Such claims could subject us to significant liability for damages and, regardless of their merits, could be time-consuming and expensive to resolve. Any such costs and damages could be significant and would reduce our net income. Failure to comply with employment and related laws could result in the payment of significant damages, which would reduce our net income; employee theft or fraud could result in loss. We are subject to a variety of domestic and foreign employment laws, including those related to safety, discrimination, whistle-blowing, classification of employees, wages and severance payments. Such laws are subject to change as a result of judicial decisions or otherwise and there can be no assurance that we will not be found to have violated any such laws in the future. Such violations could lead to the assessment of significant fines against us by federal, state or foreign regulatory authorities or to the award of damages claims (including severance payments) against us in judicial proceedings by employees, any of which would reduce our net income. Certain of our employees have access to or signature authority with respect to bank accounts or other company assets, which could expose us to fraud or theft by such employees. In cases of fraud or theft by any such employee, we would incur losses, which may not be recoverable from the employee and which may not be fully covered by insurance. We may not be successful in implementing and integrating strategic transactions or in divesting non-strategic assets, which could cause our financial results to fail to meet our forecasts. From time to time, we may undertake strategic transactions that give us the opportunity to access new customers and new end-customer markets, to obtain new manufacturing and service capabilities and technologies, to enter new geographic manufacturing locations, to lower our manufacturing costs and improve the margins on our product mix, and to further develop existing customer relationships. Strategic transactions involve many difficulties and uncertainties, including the following: • integrating acquired operations and businesses;• regulatory approvals or other conditions to closing that d elay the completing of strategic transactions beyond the time anticipated;• allocating management resources;• scaling up production and coordinating management of operations at new sites;• separating operations or support infrastructure for entities divested;• managing and integrating operations in geographically dispersed locations;• maintaining customer, supplier or other favorable business relationships of acquired operations and terminating unfavorable relationships ; • integrating the acquired company's systems into our management information systems;• satisfying unforeseen liabilities of acquired businesses, including environmental liabilities, which could require the expenditure of material amounts of cash;• operating in the geographic market or industry sector of the business acquired in which we may have little or no experience;• improving and expanding our management information systems to accommodate expanded operations; and• losing key employees of acquired operations.Any of these factors could prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits of a strategic transaction, and our failure to realize these benefits could reduce our sales below and increase our costs above our forecasts. Acquisitions may also be dilutive to our earnings per share if our projections and assumptions about the acquired business' future operating results prove to be inaccurate. As a result, although our goal is to improve our business and maximize stockholder value, any transactions that we complete may ultimately fail to increase our sales and net income and stock price. 26Table of ContentsThe impact of price fluctuations could reduce our net income The cost of commodities, parts and components used in the manufacturing of our products has fluctuated significantly in the past. Should we not be successful in adjusting our pricing to account such f luctuations, our gross margins, and therefore net income, would decline. Our key personnel are critical to the continued growth of our business and we cannot assure you that they will remain with us. Our success depends upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key personnel. Generally, these employees are not bound by employment or non-competition agreements. We cannot assure you that we will retain our officers and key employees, particularly our highly skilled operations managers and engineers involved in the manufacture of existing products and development of new products and processes. The competition for these employees is intense. In addition, if one or more of our executive officers or key employees were to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us or otherwise become unavailable to us, we could lose customers and our sales and gross margins could decrease. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property or infringe, or are alleged to infringe, upon intellectual property of others, we could lose sales or be required to pay significant amounts in costs or damages. We rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology. Any failure to protect our intellectual property rights would diminish or eliminate the competitive advantages that we derive from our proprietary technology. We rely in part upon patents to protect our intellectual property position. However, a number of our patents covering certain aspects of our manufacturing processes or products have expired or will expire in the near future. Such expirations reduce our ability to assert claims against competitors or others who use similar technology. We may become involved in litigation in the future to protect our intellectual property or because others may allege that we infringe on their intellectual property. These claims and any resulting lawsuits could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidate our proprietary rights. In addition, these lawsuits, regardless of their merits, likely would be time consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert management's time and attention. Any potential intellectual property litigation alleging our infringement of a third-party's intellectual property also could force us or our customers to: • stop producing products that use the challenged intellectual property;• ob tain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property, at our expense, a license to sell the relevant technology at an additional cost, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; or• redesign those products or services that use the infringed technology.Any costs we incur from having to take any of these actions co uld be substantial. We may not have sufficient insurance coverage for certain of the risks and liabilities we assume in connection with the products and services we provide to our customers, which could leave us responsible for certain costs and damages incurred by our customers. We carry various forms of business and liability insurance in amounts we believe are reasonable and customary for similarly situated companies in our industry. However, we do not have insurance coverage for all of the risks and liabilities we assume in connection with the products and services we provide to our customers, such as potential warranty, product liability, intellectual property infringement and product recall claims. As a result, such liability claims may not be covered under our insurance policies. Should we sustain a significant uncovered loss, our net income would be reduced. Changes in financial accounting standards or policies have affected, and in the future may affect, our reported financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, changes in securities laws and regulations have increased, and are likely to continue to increase, our operating costs. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or U.S. GAAP. Our preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the recorded amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of those assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the recorded amounts of expenses during the reporting period. A change in the facts and 27Table of Contentscircumstances surrounding those estimates could result in a change to our estimates and could impact our future operating results. In addition, these principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in those policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions whic h are completed before a change is announced. Accounting policies affecting many other aspects of our business, including rules relating to revenue recognition, off-balance sheet transactions, stock-based compensation, restructurings, acquisition accounting, asset disposals and asset retirement obligations, intangible assets, derivative and other financial instruments and in-process research and development charges, have recently been revised or are under review. Changes to those rules or the questioning of how we interpret or implement those rules may have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results or on the way we conduct business. For example, a preliminary timetable by which U.S. companies would adopt International Financial Reporting Standards has been promulgated by the SEC. Although at a very early stage of consideration by regulatory agencies, adoption of such standards could substantially change our reporting practices in a number of areas, including revenue recognition and recordin g of assets and liabilities. Finally, corporate governance, public disclosure and compliance practices continue to evolve based upon continuing legislative action, SEC rulemaking and stockholder advisory group policies. As a result, the number of rules and regulations applicable to us may increase, which would also increase our legal and financial compliance costs and the amount of time management must devote to compliance activities. In turn, these developments could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and qualified executive officers in light of an increase in actual or perceived liability for serving in such positions.< /div> Outages, computer viruses, break-ins and similar events could disrupt our operations. We rely on information technology networks and systems, some of which are owned and operated by third parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information. In particular, we depend on our information technology infrastructure for a variety of functions, including worldwide financial reporting, inventory management, procurement, invoicing and email communications. Any of these system s may be susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks and similar events. Despite the implementation of network security measures, our systems and those of third parties on which we rely may also be vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions. If we or our vendors are unable to prevent such outages and breaches, our operations could be disrupted. We are subject to risks associated with natural disasters and global events. We conduct a significant portion of our activities including manufacturing, administration and information technology management in areas that have experienced natural disasters, such as major earthquakes, hurricanes, and tsunamis. Our insurance coverage with respect to damages to our facilities or our customers' products caused by natural disasters is limited and is subject to deductibles and coverage limits. Such coverage may not be adequate or continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates and terms. In the event of a major earthquake or other disaster affecting one or more of our facilities, our operations and management information systems, which control our worldwide procurement, inventory management, shipping and billing activities, could be significantly disrupted. Such events could also delay or prevent product manufacturing and shipment for the time required to transfer production or repair, rebuild or replace the affected manufacturing facilities. T his time frame could be lengthy and result in significant expenses for repair and related costs. While we have in place disaster recovery plans, there can be no assurance that such plans will be sufficient to allow our operations to continue in the event of every natural or man-made disaster, pandemic or other extraordinary event. Any extended inability to continue our operations at unaffected facilities following such an event would reduce our revenue and potentially damage our reputation as a reliable supplier. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 28Table of Contents