Item 1A. Risk Factors Our short- and long-term success is subject to many factors that are beyond our control. Stockholders and prospective stockholders in the Company should consider carefully the following risk factors, in addition to the information contained in this report. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements,” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21 of the Exchange Act, which are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth below. As a result of completing the asset sale with KMC, we may encounter difficulties in leveraging our remaining assets and continuing operations at a profitable level. Although we intend to continue operations as a provider of advanced imaging and networking technologies and components to the digital document market, our primary assets after consummating the transaction with KMC consist of licenses to use intellectual property owned by others. As a result, we may encounter unanticipated difficulties or challenges in continuing operations and our cash flows and revenues may be materially adversely impacted. If we are unable to address and overcome such difficulties or challenges, we may not be successful with our new business structure. 8 Table of Contents We have certain indemnification obligations under the Asset Purchase Agreement with KMC that might result in us not receiving all of the proceeds of the asset sale. Under the Asset Purchase Agreement, the $37.0 million purchase price for, among other things, substantially all of our intellectual property, is subject to a holdback amount of $4.0 million relating to potential indemnification obligations. If we are required to indemnify KMC or certain of its affiliates as a result such obligations, we may not receive all of the proceeds from the asset sale. Our current growth strategy depends in part on our ability to successfully invest in and/or acquire the assets or businesses of other companies. Our failure to complete transactions that accomplish these objectives could reduce our earnings and slow our growth. We anticipate investing in and/or acquiring the assets or businesses of other companies as part of our current growth strategy. Potential risks involved in such transactions include lack of necessary capital, the inability to satisfy closing conditions, failure to identify suitable business entities for acquisition, the inability to successfully integrate such businesses into our operations, and the inability to make acquisitions on terms that we consider economically acceptable. Our ability to grow through acquisitions and manage growth would require us to continue to invest in operational, financial and management information systems and to attract, retain, motivate and effectively manage our employees. The inability to effectively manage the integration of acquisitions could reduce our focus on subsequent acquisitions and current operations, which, in turn, could negatively impact our earnings and growth. In addition, even if we do invest in or acquire other companies, there is no guarantee that such transactions will be successful in producing revenue or profits. The Adobe License Agreement is set to expire on June 30, 2008, and we do not expect that this agreement will be renewed. We have a licensing agreement with Adobe Systems Incorporated to bundle and sublicense its licensed products with our licensed software. The term of the Adobe Agreement is set to expire on June 30, 2008 and we do not expect that this agreement will be renewed. There is no assurance that we will be successful in replacing the revenue derived from the Adobe License Agreement within a short period of time, if at all. If we fail to replace the revenue derived from the Adobe License Agreement our operating results will be materially adversely impacted. See “Item 1. Financial Statements — Note 5 Concentration of Revenue.” We may be unable to meet certain conditions of closing the Prism transaction which will slow our realization of certain financial and strategic goals. On February 22, 2008, we entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement with Prism and certain stockholders of Prism, pursuant to which we will purchase from Prism all of its assets in connection with Prism’s business, except for certain excluded assets, free and clear of all encumbrances, and will assume certain assumed liabilities. The obligations of the parties to the Asset Purchase Agreement to complete the purchase and sale of the purchased assets are subject to certain closing conditions, such as payoff of certain loans, releases of liens on the purchased assets, third-party customer and supplier consents, and other customary conditions. These conditions may not be met. If any of these conditions are not met, we may not be able to complete the transaction. We may be unsuccessful in realizing our financial and strategic objectives with respect to our acquisition of substantially all of the assets of Prism. PDMC, our wholly owned subsidiary, is expected to acquire substantially all of the assets of Prism, a company in the software document application space within the next 30 days. We have not conducted business in the software document application space previously. As a result, we may not be successful in realizing our financial and strategic objectives relating to the Prism transaction, causing our assets to become impaired. We rely on relationships with certain customers and any adverse change in those relationships will harm our business. A limited number of OEM customers continue to provide a substantial portion of our revenues. Presently, there are only a small number of OEM customers in the digital document product market to which we can market our technology and services. Therefore, our ability to offset a significant decrease in the revenues from a particular customer or to replace a lost customer is severely limited. During the fiscal year 2008, two customers, Konica Minolta and KMC each generated greater than 10% of our revenues, and collectively contributed 66% of revenues for the year. Block licenses for the same time period were 51% of the revenue of the company. Seiko Epson Corporation advised us that they will be doing less business with us going forward due to their ability to find more favorable pricing. In fiscal 2006, 2007 and 2008, Seiko Epson Corporation accounted for 10%, 4% and 7% of our revenues. During the fiscal year 2007, three customers each generated greater than 10% of our revenues, and collectively contributed 70% of revenues. Block license revenues during the same period were 50% of revenues. We, as well as our OEM customers and third party technology suppliers face increasingly intense competition within our industry, which is applying significant downward pricing pressure on products and services. As a result, our OEM customers and third party technology suppliers continue to seek lower cost alternatives for their engineering needs. Some of our OEM customers and third 9 Table of Contents party technology suppliers, including Adobe, have developed extensive offshore operations in countries such as India, that are capable of delivering lower cost solutions than we are able to deliver as of today. The ability of our OEM customers and third party technology suppliers to provide the same services at a lower cost may result in them no longer needing our services, as well as being in direct competition with us by providing the same services at a lower cost to our other customers. This may result in us losing some of our customers and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and future cash flows. See “Financial Statements - Note 5. Concentration of Revenues.” We are involved in a contract dispute, which, if not remedied, could result in the loss of the Adobe agreement and could harm our business. Effective as of April 1, 2001, we entered into a PostScript sublicense with Canon Inc. The sublicense did not include several terms required to be included in all OEM sublicenses by our license with Adobe. Although Adobe has indicated to us that it has no current intention to pursue claims for alleged breach of the Adobe Peerless PostScript Sublicensing Agreement, Adobe has not agreed to waive the requirement that the missing terms be included in the Canon sublicense. To date, we have been unable to amend the Canon sublicense in a manner acceptable to both Canon and Adobe. Furthermore, there is no assurance that we will be able to resolve the issues in a manner acceptable to both Adobe and Canon. Thus, Adobe may exercise its right to terminate its license agreement with us and take other legal action against us, if it so chooses. Termination of the Adobe agreement would have a material adverse effect on our future operating results. Approximately 8% of our revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2008 and approximately 23% of our revenue for the twelve months ended January 31, 2008 were derived from its licensing arrangement with Adobe. If we are not in compliance with our license agreements, we may lose our rights to sublicense technology; our competitors are aggressively pursuing the sale of licensed third party technology. We currently sublicense third party technologies to our OEM customers, which sublicenses accounted for $12.2 and $15.2 in licensing revenue in fiscal 2008 and 2007, respectively. Such sublicense agreements are non-exclusive. If we are determined not to be in compliance with the agreements between us and our licensors, we may forfeit our right to sublicense these technologies. Likewise, if such sublicense agreements expired, we would lose our right to sublicense the affected technologies. Additionally, the licensing of these technologies has become very competitive, with competitors possessing substantially greater financial and technical resources and market penetration than us. As competitors are pursuing aggressive strategies to obtain similar rights as held by us to sublicense these third party technologies, there is no assurance that we can remain competitive in the marketplace if one or more competitors are successful. We may become subject to litigation as a result of an intellectual property infringement claim asserted by Screentone Systems Corporation against one of our customers. Screentone Systems Corporation (“Screentone”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Acacia Technologies Group (“Acacia”), has recently made an allegation of patent infringement against one of our customers. Our customer has requested that we defend them against Screentone’s lawsuit as it believes that the allegedly infringing functionality is resident in third party software which we sublicensed to them for use in certain of its products. We are currently trying to determine if the allegedly infringing functionality is resident in the third party software, as our customer believes. The lawsuit has been assigned to a court in the Central District of California for all pre-trial purposes and the case management conference is pending. We may be unable to resolve this lawsuit of patent infringement with our customer or Screentone, or to obtain any indemnification from the third party software provider from whom we licensed the software. This lawsuit of patent infringement could be time consuming, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel from productive tasks, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. In the event of an adverse ruling affecting us as a party to the lawsuit and/or we are unable to obtain any indemnification from the third party software provider, we may be required to pay substantial damages and/or discontinue the sublicensing of third party software of such infringing patents. Our failure to continue sublicensing third party software, if required, could have a material adverse effect on our licensing revenues and our operating results. If we enter new markets or distribution channels this could result in higher operating expenses that may not be offset by increased revenue. We continue to explore opportunities to develop or acquire ancillary products different from our core technology, such as software applications for document management and workflow. We expect to invest funds to develop new distribution and marketing channels for these new products and services, which will increase our operating expenses. We do not know if we will be successful in developing these channels or whether the market will accept any newly acquired products or services or if we will generate sufficient revenues from these activities to offset the additional operating expenses we incur. In addition, even if we are able to introduce new products or services, if customers do not accept these new products or services or if we are not able to price such products or services competitively, our operating results will likely suffer. 10 Table of Contents Our licensing revenue is subject to significant fluctuations which may materially and adversely affect our operating results. Our recurring licensing revenue model has shifted from per-unit royalties paid upon OEM shipment of our product and guaranteed quarterly minimum royalties to a model that results in revenues associated with the sale of SDKs and block licenses. The reliance on block licenses has occurred due to aging OEM products in the marketplace, OEM demands in negotiating licensing agreements, reductions in the number of OEM products shipping and a product mix that changed from object code licensing arrangements to SDKs. Revenues may continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter as the number of opportunities vary, or if the signing of block licenses are delayed or the licensing opportunities are lost to competitors. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our revenue from engineering services is subject to significant fluctuations. We have experienced a significant reduction in the financial performance of our engineering services that has been caused by many factors, including: • product development delays; • potential non-recurring engineering reduction for product customization; • third party delays; • loss of new engineering services contracts; • globalization of the engineering workforce; and • the transfer of certain of our employees and other assets to KMC in connection with the IP sale. There can be no guarantee that these and similar factors will not continue to impact future engineering services results adversely. The future demand for our products is uncertain. Our monochrome technology and products have been in the marketplace for an extended period of time. The average age of current technology and products in the marketplace reflects the aging of our monochrome technology and products. OEMs, in a number of instances, have not selected our solutions because the OEMs perceived that our solutions did not meet their technical requirements, developed the technology themselves or utilized lower cost offshore software competitors. Although we continue to license our current technology and products to certain OEMs, there can be no assurance that the OEMs will continue to need or utilize the products and technology we currently offer. The industry for imaging systems for digital document products involves intense competition and rapid technological changes, and our business may suffer if our competitors develop superior technology. We anticipate increasing competition for our color products, particularly as new competitors develop and sell competing products. Some of our existing competitors, many of our potential competitors, and virtually all of our OEM customers have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and sales resources than we have. If price competition increases, competitive pressures could require us to reduce the amount of royalties received on new licenses and to reduce the cost of our engineering services in order to maintain existing business and generate additional product licensing revenues. This could reduce profit margins and result in losses and a decrease in market share. We cannot guarantee that we have the ability to compete favorably with the internal development capabilities of our current and prospective OEM customers or with other third party digital imaging system suppliers and the failure to compete effectively would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property or face a claim of intellectual property infringement by a third party, we could lose our intellectual property rights or be liable for damages. We protect our proprietary rights through a combination of, among other things, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, as well as the early implementation and enforcement of nondisclosure and other contractual restrictions. As part of the transaction with KMC, we sold substantially all of our intellectual property, including all of our patents to KMC and executed a license agreement pursuant to which KMC licensed the IP back to us on a nonexclusive, worldwide, perpetual and 11 Table of Contents royalty free basis subject to certain restrictions. Excluded from the IP that was sold to KMC was all of our customized intellectual property that had been previously integrated into products or services licensed or otherwise provided by us to third parties or specifically created for customers of ours after December 7, 2007 other than KMC and, which, in either case, had not also been provided to or integrated into products or services licensed to KMC, or developed pursuant to or in connection with certain agreements with KMC. As part of our confidentiality procedures, we enter into written nondisclosure agreements with our employees, consultants, prospective customers, OEMs and strategic partners and take further affirmative steps to limit access to and distribution of our software, intellectual property and other proprietary information. Despite these efforts and in the event such agreements are not timely made, complied with or enforced, we may be unable to protect our proprietary rights. In any event, enforcement of our proprietary rights may be very expensive. Our source code also is protected as a trade secret. However, from time to time, we license our source code to OEMs pursuant to protective agreements, which subjects us to the risk of unauthorized use or misappropriation despite the contractual terms restricting disclosure, distribution, copying and use. In addition, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to obtain, distribute, copy or use our proprietary information, or to reverse engineer our trade secrets. As the number of patents, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights in our industry increases, products using our technologies increasingly may become the subject of infringement claims. There can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future. Any such claims, regardless of merit, could be time consuming, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel from productive tasks, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, we may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. Litigation to determine the validity of any claims, whether or not such litigation is determined in favor of us, could result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel from productive tasks. We may lack sufficient resources to initiate a meritorious claim. In the event of an adverse ruling in any litigation regarding intellectual property, we may be required to pay substantial damages, discontinue the use and sale of infringing products, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, or obtain licenses to infringing or substituted technology. Our failure to develop or license on acceptable terms a substitute technology, if required, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our international activities may expose us to risks associated with international business. We are substantially dependent on our international business activities. Risks inherent in these international business activities include: • major currency rate fluctuations; • changes in the economic condition of foreign countries; • the imposition of government controls; • tailoring of products to local requirements; • trade restrictions; • changes in tariffs and taxes; and • the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. If we are unable to adapt to international conditions, our business may be adversely affected. We rely on the services of our executive officers and other key personnel, whose knowledge of our business and industry would be extremely difficult to replace. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continuing contributions of our senior management. Management and other employees may voluntarily terminate their employment with us at any time upon short notice. The loss of key personnel could delay product development cycles or otherwise harm our business. We believe that our future success will also depend in large part on our ability to attract, integrate and retain highly-skilled engineering, managerial, sales and marketing personnel. Competition for such 12 Table of Contents personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting, integrating and retaining such personnel. Failure to attract, integrate and retain key personnel could harm our ability to carry out our business strategy and compete with other companies. Our stock price may experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. Our common stock has experienced price volatility. In the 60-day period ending January 31, 2008, the closing price of our stock ranged from $1.93 per share to $2.61 per share. Such price volatility may occur in the future. Factors that could affect the trading price of our common stock include • macroeconomic conditions; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in quarterly results of operations; • announcements of new products or significant technological innovations by us or our competitors; • developments or disputes with respect to proprietary rights; • losses of major OEM customers; • general trends in the industry; • overall market conditions and other factors; • change in executive management; and • other risk factors described herein. In addition, the stock market historically has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have particularly affected the market price of securities of many related high technology companies and which at times have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. Failure to maintain our Nasdaq listing would adversely affect the trading price and liquidity of our common stock. If we are not able to maintain compliance with Nasdaq’s listing requirements, our common stock may be subject to removal from listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market. Trading in our common stock after a delisting, if any, would likely be conducted in the over-the-counter markets in the so-called “pink sheets” or the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board and could also be subject to additional restrictions. As a consequence of a delisting, our stockholders would find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our common stock. In addition, a delisting would make our common stock substantially less attractive as collateral for margin and purpose loans, for investment by financial institutions under their internal policies or state legal investment laws or as consideration in future capital raising transactions. 13 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting or discover material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or financial reporting practices, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or detect fraud, which could harm our business and the trading price of our stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important in our effort to prevent financial fraud. We are required to periodically evaluate the effectiveness of the design and operation of our internal controls. These evaluations may result in the conclusion that enhancements, modifications or changes to our internal controls are necessary or desirable. As we previously noted in connection with the material weakness that we disclosed as of January 31, 2007, which was remediated, while management evaluates the effectiveness of our internal controls on a regular basis, we cannot provide absolute assurance that these controls will always be effective or any assurance that the controls, accounting processes, procedures and underlying assumptions will not be subject to revision. There are also inherent limitations on the effectiveness of internal controls and financial reporting practices, including collusion, management override, and failure of human judgment. Because of this, control procedures and financial reporting practices are designed to reduce rather than eliminate business risks. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting or if and for so long as management or our independent registered public accounting firm were to discover material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting (or if our system of controls and audits results in a change of practices or new information or conclusions about our financial reporting), we may be unable to produce reliable financial reports or prevent fraud and it could harm our financial condition and results of operations and result in loss of investor confidence and a decline in our stock price. Recent and proposed regulations related to equity incentives could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Since our inception, we have used stock options and other long-term equity incentives as a fundamental component of our employee retention packages. We believe that stock options and other long-term equity incentives directly motivate our employees to maximize long-term stockholder value and, through the use of vesting, encourage employees to remain with us. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has announced changes that we have implemented in the quarter ending April 30, 2006, requiring us to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants and issuances of stock under employee stock purchase plans. This regulation negatively impacts our results of operations. In addition, new regulations implemented by the Nasdaq Capital Market requiring stockholder approval for all stock option plans could make it more difficult for us to grant options to employees in the future. To the extent that new regulations make it more difficult or expensive to grant options to employees, to change our equity incentive strategy, or to attract, retain and motivate employees, they could materially and adversely affect our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 