Item 1A. Risk Factors Our short and long term success is subject to many factors that are beyond our control. Stockholders and prospective stockholders in the Company should consider carefully the following risk factors, in addition to the information contained in this report. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements,” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21 of the Exchange Act, which are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth below. See “Forward Looking Statements” above. 4 Risks Related to Our Company and Our Historical Business We expect a continued decrease in our Adobe related revenues for fiscal 2015 due to the expiration of our agreement with Adobe. Our agreement with Adobe to bundle and sublicense Adobe’s licensed products into new OEM products expired on March 31, 2010. We are unable to transition our customer base to another provider. We will only continue to collect licensing fees for the commercial life of all AELD for the useful life of these products under existing sublicensing agreements. We expect a decrease in our Adobe related revenues for fiscal 2015 due to the expiration of this agreement. Our revenues from licensing products that include Adobe technology were approximately $0.8 million and $0.7 million for fiscal 2014 and 2013, respectively. There is currently limited demand for our products and we expect demand will continue to decline in the future. Since the completion of the KMC Transaction, we have continued to license and market the technology which we own or to which we have licensing rights directly to OEM customers. Our licensing arrangements with our customers are based on the number of products including our technology shipped by these customers and the life cycles of these products. Because we generate a large percentage of our revenues from a small number of customers and a few products, any loss of these customers or products would have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. There has been a general decline in the rates of growth for the monochrome work group printer and MFP market segments in which we are engaged. For those product platforms that do utilize the software we license, the competition has increased and we have experienced significant downward price pressure. Although our technology can be modified to meet the needs of our customers, since 2007, we have elected not to develop new products and, since late 2010, we have elected not to maintain a development engineering staff. As a result of this, OEM demand for our solutions has declined. This decline occurred in some cases because the OEMs perceived that our solutions did not meet their technical requirements. In other cases it occurred because the OEMs either developed the technology themselves or utilized lower cost offshore software competitors. Although we continue to license our current technology and products to certain OEMs, there can be no assurance that the OEMs will continue to need or utilize the products and technology we currently offer. We had an agreement with Adobe to bundle and sublicense Adobe’s licensed products into new OEM products which expired on March 31, 2010. This termination has substantially reduced the range of products we are able to offer. We believe this will materially diminish our ability to continue licensing products in the future. We receive a substantial portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers and any adverse change in our relationships with those customers will materially harm our business. A limited number of OEM customers continue to provide a substantial portion of our revenues. Presently, there are only a small number of OEM customers in the digital document product market to which we can market our technology and services. Therefore, our ability to offset a significant decrease in the revenues from a particular customer or to replace a lost customer is severely limited. Customers that individually represented approximately 10% or more of our total revenues collectively accounted for 93% and 89% of our revenues for fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013, respectively. Each of Novell, KMC, Oki Data and XIP constituted customers representing approximately10% or more of our total revenues in fiscal 2014 and/or fiscal 2013. Along with our OEM customers and third party technology suppliers, we face intense competition within our industry, which is applying significant downward pricing pressure on products. As a result, our OEM customers and third party technology suppliers continue to seek lower cost alternatives. Some of our OEM customers and third party technology suppliers, including Adobe, have developed extensive offshore operations in countries such as India that are capable of delivering lower cost solutions. The ability of our OEM customers and third party technology suppliers to provide similar offerings at a lower cost may result in them no longer needing our services, as well as being in direct competition with us by providing similar technologies at a lower cost to our other customers. This may result in us losing some of our customers and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and future cash flows. See “Financial Statements – Note 12 Risks and Uncertainties.” Our licensing revenue is subject to significant fluctuations which may materially and adversely affect our operating results. Our recurring license agreements may result in revenues associated with the sale of block and perpetual licenses. Block and perpetual licenses can create significant fluctuations in revenues as they are most often recognized as revenue immediately instead of over time. While we expect most of our customers to shift from block license or prepay model to a pay-as-you-go model, we may still sell block and perpetual licenses. Revenues may continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter as the number of opportunities vary, if the signing of block licenses are delayed or the licensing opportunities are lost to competitors. In addition, we may experience additional significant fluctuation as aging OEM products leave the marketplace. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. 5 The industry for imaging systems for digital document products involves intense competition and rapid technological changes, and our business will likely be materially harmed when our competitors develop superior technology. We anticipate increasing competition for our color products, particularly as new competitors develop and sell competing products. Some of our existing competitors, many of our potential competitors, and virtually all of our OEM customers have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and sales resources than we have. Furthermore, we are not investing in technology to update our products. Other competitors are likely to develop new products which replace the products we currently offer. If price competition increases, competitive pressures could require us to reduce the amount of royalties received on new licenses. New technology developed by our competitors will further erode our market share and reduce our royalty revenue. If we fail to adequately protect intellectual property or face a claim of intellectual property infringement by a third party, we could lose our intellectual property rights or be liable for damages. We protect our proprietary rights in a number of ways, including, but not limited to, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, as well as early implementation of nondisclosure and other contractual restrictions. As part of the KMC Transaction, we sold substantially all of our intellectual property, including all of our patents to KMC and executed a license agreement pursuant to which KMC licensed the intellectual property back to us on a nonexclusive, worldwide, perpetual and royalty free basis subject to certain restrictions. Excluded from the IP that was sold to KMC was all of our customized intellectual property that had been previously integrated into products or services licensed or otherwise provided by us to third parties or specifically created for customers of ours after December 7, 2007 other than KMC and, which, in either case, had not also been provided to or integrated into products or services licensed to KMC, or developed pursuant to or in connection with certain agreements with KMC. As part of our confidentiality procedures, we enter into written nondisclosure agreements with our employees, consultants, prospective customers, OEMs and strategic partners and take further affirmative steps to limit access to and distribution of our software, intellectual property and other proprietary information. Despite these efforts and in the event such agreements are not timely made, complied with or enforced, we may be unable to protect our proprietary rights. In any event, enforcement of our proprietary rights may be very expensive. Our source code also is protected as a trade secret. However, from time to time, we license our source code to OEMs pursuant to protective agreements, which subjects us to the risk of unauthorized use or misappropriation despite contractual terms restricting disclosure, distribution, copying and use. In addition, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to obtain, distribute, copy or use our proprietary information, or to reverse engineer our trade secrets. As the number of patents, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights in our industry increases, products using our technologies increasingly may become the subject of infringement claims. There can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future. Any such claims, regardless of merit, could be time consuming, divert the efforts of our management personnel from productive tasks, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, we may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. Litigation to determine the validity of any claims, whether or not such litigation is determined in favor of us, could result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our management personnel from productive tasks. We may lack sufficient resources to initiate a meritorious claim. In the event of an adverse ruling in any litigation regarding intellectual property, we may be required to pay substantial damages, discontinue the use and sale of infringing products, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, or obtain licenses to infringing or substituted technology. Our failure to develop or license on acceptable terms a substitute technology, if required, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. If we are not in compliance with our license agreements, we may lose our rights to sublicense technology; our competitors are aggressively pursuing the sale of licensed third party technology. We currently sublicense third party technologies to our OEM customers, which sublicenses accounted for $2.3 million and $1.2 million in revenue in fiscal 2014 and 2013, respectively. Such sublicense agreements are non-exclusive. If we are determined not to be in compliance with the agreements between us and our licensors, we may forfeit our right to sublicense these technologies. Likewise, if such sublicense agreements expire, we would lose our right to sublicense the affected technologies, which could adversely affect our revenues. Additionally, the licensing of such technologies has become very competitive, with competitors possessing substantially greater financial and technical resources and market penetration than us. As competitors are pursuing aggressive strategies to obtain similar rights as held by us to sublicense these third party technologies, there is no assurance that we can remain competitive in the marketplace if one or more competitors are successful in this strategy. 6 Our international activities may expose us to risks associated with international business. We are substantially dependent on our international business activities. Risks inherent in these international business activities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, include: • changes in the economic, geographic or environmental conditions of foreign countries, including, but not limited to, Japan where many of our customers are located; • the imposition of government controls; • Our inability to tailor our products to meet local requirements; • trade restrictions; • changes in tariffs and taxes; • the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations; and • major currency rate fluctuations, which may affect demand for our products. If we are unable to adapt to international conditions, our business may be adversely affected. The failure of any financial institution in which we deposit funds could significantly reduce the amount of cash we have available for our corporate and business purposes. We maintain our cash in various accounts with nationally-recognized financial institutions. Although we have diversified our holdings in multiple institutions, our accounts may be uninsured and therefore subject to loss or total forfeiture. Financial institutions are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which have been exacerbated by the recent financial and credit crisis and bankruptcies which have affected various sectors of the financial markets and led to global credit and liquidity issues. If any of the financial institutions in which we have deposited funds ultimately fails or freezes redemptions of our accounts, we may lose part or all of our investments. The loss of part or all of our investments could significantly reduce the amount of cash we have available for our corporate and business purposes, which would materially and adversely affect our operations. Failure to maintain our Nasdaq listing would adversely affect the trading price and liquidity of our common stock. If we are not able to maintain compliance with Nasdaq’s listing requirements, our common stock may be subject to removal from listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market. Trading in our common stock after a delisting, if any, would likely be conducted in the over-the-counter markets in the so-called “pink sheets” and could also be subject to additional restrictions. As a consequence of a delisting, our stockholders would find it more difficult to dispose, or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value, of our common stock. In addition, a delisting would make our common stock substantially less attractive as collateral for margin purpose loans, for investment by financial institutions under their internal policies or state legal investment laws or as consideration in future capital raising transactions. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting or discover material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or financial reporting practices, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or detect fraud, which could harm our business and the trading price of our stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important in our effort to prevent financial fraud. We are required to periodically evaluate the effectiveness of the design and operation of our internal controls. These evaluations may result in the conclusion that enhancements, modifications or changes to our internal controls are necessary or desirable. While management evaluates the effectiveness of our internal controls on a regular basis, we cannot provide absolute assurance that these controls will always be effective or any assurance that the controls, accounting processes, procedures and underlying assumptions will not be subject to revision. There are also inherent limitations on the effectiveness of internal controls and financial reporting practices, including collusion, management override and failure of human judgment. Because of this, control procedures and financial reporting practices are designed to reduce rather than eliminate business risks. We are required to document and test our internal control procedures under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which includes annual management assessments of the effectiveness of such internal controls. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting or if management or our independent registered public accounting firm discovered material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting (or if our system of controls and audits results in a change of practices or new information or conclusions about our financial reporting), we may be unable to produce reliable financial reports or prevent fraud and it could harm our financial condition and results of operations and result in loss of investor confidence and a decline in our stock price. 7 We rely on the services of our executive officers, whose knowledge of our business and industry would be extremely difficult to replace. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continuing contributions of our management. Management may voluntarily terminate their employment with us at any time upon short notice. The loss of key personnel could harm our business. Failure to retain key personnel could harm our ability to carry out our business strategy and compete with other companies. Risks Related to Our Strategy to Increase Value for Stockholders Since the closing of the tender offer on November 10, 2010, the Company has fewer resources and alternatives to pursue its strategy to enhance stockholder value. On November 10, 2010, the Company completed a tender offer to acquire up to 13,846,153 shares of its common stock at a cash price of $3.25 per share, or a total price of $45 million. A total of 13,214,401 shares were properly tendered and not withdrawn in the offer and was purchased by the Company at a total price of $42,946,803. As of January 31, 2014, the Company had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of $10.9 million, net of broker payable of $1.4 million. This amount will be used, along with revenues and receivables, to fund the Company’s future operating expenses, as well as to pursue its strategy to enhance stockholder value. With a reduced cash balance, the Company has fewer resources to explore various alternatives to enhance value for stockholders, and a more limited range of available alternatives. A significant portion of our working capital could be expended in pursuing strategies that do not enhance value for stockholders. We expect that the investigation of each specific opportunity, structuring of any related transaction, drafting and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents and other instruments will require substantial time and attention and substantial costs including, but not limited to, due diligence costs for accountants, attorneys and other advisors/consultants. In addition, we may investigate developing a new business, which may include substantial legal and/or financial advisory costs, or to make downpayments or pay exclusivity or similar fees in connection with structuring and negotiating business combinations. If we determine not to, or are unable to consummate a specific opportunity, the costs incurred will not be recoverable. Any such event will result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred, which could materially and adversely affect our subsequent attempts to locate and combine with another business. Our current corporate strategy depends in part on our ability to successfully establish a new venture, acquire an existing company or make another investment. Our failure to execute this strategy could reduce our earnings and reduce our cash reserves. In addition, our investments, new ventures and/or acquisitions may be subject to substantial risk. Our current corporate strategy involves exploring various alternatives to enhance stockholder value through establishing a new venture or acquiring an existing business, as well as through other investment opportunities. Potential risks related to this strategy include lack of necessary capital, the inability to satisfy closing conditions, failure to identify suitable or economically acceptable alternatives, and the inability to successfully integrate a new business into our operations. Our ability to enhance value to stockholders and manage growth depends upon our ability to continue to invest in operational, financial and management information systems and to attract, retain, motivate and effectively manage our employees. The inability to effectively manage the integration of new operations could reduce our focus on subsequent acquisitions and current operations, which, in turn, could negatively impact our earnings and growth. In addition, even if we develop a new business or invest in or acquire another company, there is no guarantee that such transactions will be successful in producing revenue or profits. We are pursuing a strategy which may not enhance value for stockholders. Since the completion of the KMC Transaction in April 2008, we have been exploring various alternatives to enhance stockholder value through establishing a new venture or acquiring an existing business, as well as through other investment opportunities. However, we may not be able to identify an appropriate alternative. If we do identify a suitable opportunity for a new business, acquisition or investment, we may not be able to successfully and satisfactorily execute the opportunity. Furthermore, if we are successful in executing the opportunity, the integration of the opportunity will involve a number of risks and presents financial, managerial and operational challenges. Therefore, we cannot assure that this strategy will enhance value for our stockholders. We could experience losses on our investments in marketable securities. As part of our interim investment activities, we invest in marketable securities from time to time. At January 31, 2014 and 2013 we held marketable securities with a market value of approximately $4.3 million and $2.9 million respectively. In fiscal 2014, we had $2.2 million in net realized losses (as discussed above in Interim Investment Activities section) and $0.5 million decrease in net unrealized losses, compared to $0.1 million in net realized gains and $2.0 million increase in net unrealized losses in fiscal 2013. Unrealized gains or losses are expressed on a net after tax basis and are included in the total comprehensive income. Such investments are subject to various general market and investment-specific risks, and there is no assurance that in future periods the Company will not experience losses on its current or future investments. 8 We may be subject to further government regulation, including the Investment Company Act of 1940, which could adversely affect our operations. Although we are not currently engaged in the business of investing, reinvesting, or trading in securities, and do not currently hold ourselves out as being engaged in those activities, Peerless may be deemed to be an “inadvertent investment company” under section 3(a)(1)(C) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Company Act”), if the value of its investment securities (as defined in the Investment Company Act) is found to be more than 40% of its total assets (exclusive of government securities and cash and certain cash equivalents). Peerless does not intend to be regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. However, if Peerless were deemed an “investment company” requiring registration under the Investment Company Act, applicable restrictions could make it impractical for Peerless to continue its business as contemplated and could have a material adverse effect on our business. In the event that Peerless were to be required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, Peerless would be forced to comply with substantive requirements under the Act, including: • limitations on our capital structure, • limitations on the issuance of debt and equity securities, • restrictions on acquisitions of interests in partner companies, • prohibitions on transactions with affiliates, • prohibitions on the issuance of options and other limitations on our ability to compensate key employees, • certain governance requirements, • restrictions on specific investments, and • reporting, record-keeping, voting and proxy disclosure requirements. If we are deemed an investment company subject to registration under the Investment Company Act, compliance costs and burdens upon Peerless would increase and the additional requirements may constrain Peerless’ ability to conduct its business, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 