Item 1A: Risk Factors. Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements in this Form 10-K are forward-looking statements, within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”). These statements are based on management’s current expectations or predictions of future results or events. We make these forward-looking statements in reliance on the safe harbor provisions provided under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, included in this report which relate to performance, development or activities that we expect or anticipate will or may happen in the future, are forward looking statements. The discussions regarding our growth strategy, expansion of operations in our markets, acquisitions, competition, loan and deposit growth, timing of new branch openings, and response to consolidation in the banking industry include forward-looking statements. Other forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking words such as “believe,” “expect,” “may,” “might,” “will,” “should,” “seek,” “could,” “approximately,” “intend,” “plan,” “estimate,” or “anticipate” or the negative of those words or other similar expressions. Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties and are based on numerous assumptions. They are not guarantees of future performance. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statement. Some factors include changes in interest rates, local business conditions, government regulations, loss of key personnel or inability to hire suitable personnel, faster or slower than anticipated growth, economic conditions, our 17 Table of Contents competitors’ responses to our marketing strategy or new competitive conditions, and competition in the geographic and business areas in which we conduct our operations. Forward-looking statements contained herein are made only as of the date made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, we caution that there are important factors, in addition to those listed above, that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include the following: Our profitability depends significantly on local and overall economic conditions. Our success is dependent to a significant extent upon local economic conditions in the communities we serve and the general economic conditions in the United States. The economic conditions, including real estate values, in these areas and throughout the United States, have a significant impact on loan demand, the ability of borrowers to repay these loans, and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A decline in economic conditions, including a decline in real estate values, over a prolonged period of time in any of these areas could cause significant increases in nonperforming assets and could affect our ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral, which could cause decreased operating results, liquidity, and capital. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 85% of the book value of our loan portfolio consisted of loans collateralized by various types of real estate. Our loan portfolio is also concentrated in New Mexico, Colorado, Utah, and Arizona. Adverse economic conditions in these states could have a greater effect on our ability to attract deposits and result in high rates of loss and delinquency on our loan portfolio compared to competitors who may have more geographic diversification. Our small to medium-sized business customers may have less financial resources with which to weather a downturn in the economy. One of the primary focal points of our business development and marketing strategy is serving the banking and financial services needs of small to medium-sized businesses. Small to medium-sized businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. If general economic conditions become unfavorable in New Mexico, Colorado, Utah, or Arizona, the businesses of our customers and their ability to repay outstanding loans may be negatively affected. As a consequence, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability. Our net interest income may be reduced by changes in the interest rate environment. Our earnings depend to a significant extent on the interest rate differential. The interest rate differential or “spread” is the difference between the interest earned on loans, securities, and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings, and other interest-bearing liabilities. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. In particular, changes in the discount rate by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“Federal Reserve”) usually lead to changes in interest rates, which affect our interest income, interest expense, and securities portfolio. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Loan volume and yields are affected by market interest rates on loans, and rising interest rates generally are associated with a lower volume of loan originations. We cannot assure you that we can minimize our interest rate risk. In addition, an increase in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect the ability of certain borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume, and overall profitability. 18 Table of Contents In addition, our net income is affected by our interest rate sensitivity. Interest rate sensitivity is the difference between our interest-earning assets and our interest-bearing liabilities maturing or repricing within a given time period. Interest rate sensitivity is considered positive when the amount of interest rate sensitive assets exceeds the amount of interest rate sensitive liabilities. During the last half of 2007, the Federal Reserve lowered the discount rate three times for a total of 1.0%, which negatively impacted our interest spread. As of December 31, 2007, our interest sensitivity continues to be positive. In January of 2008, the Federal Reserve lowered the discount rate two additional times for a total of 1.25% which will again negatively impact our interest spread. If additional rate decreases occur, our results of operations and financial condition may be further adversely affected. Our loans are concentrated in New Mexico, Colorado, Utah, and Arizona and adverse conditions in those markets could adversely affect operations. Because our loans and deposits are in only a few concentrated geographic areas, our business may be more affected by local economic conditions and could be more vulnerable than banks whose lending and deposit activities are in larger, more geographically diversified markets. A prolonged or more extreme downturn in the local economies in New Mexico, Colorado, Utah, or Arizona could have an adverse effect on business activity, employment, and collateral values, with a corresponding adverse effect on loan growth, income, and on borrowers’ abilities to repay loans. Our real estate construction loan portfolio may expose us to increased credit risk. At December 31, 2007, our portfolio of real estate construction loans totaled $928.6 million or 36.5% of total loans. Approximately 40% of these loans are related to residential construction and approximately 60% are for commercial purposes or vacant land. During 2007, the housing markets declined, evidenced by excess lot inventory and higher levels of completed unsold housing inventory. The decline in the housing market, sub-prime loan crisis, and tightening of credit markets has led to higher than normal foreclosure rates on a national level. While the four Southwest states in which we operate have not experienced as significant a downturn in the residential real estate market as some parts of the country, these foreclosure rates have had a ripple affect on the construction industry as well as the acquisition and development sectors, exposing us to increased credit risk within our construction loan portfolio. Supervisory guidance on commercial real estate concentrations could restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation have joint supervisory guidance on sound risk management practices for concentrations in commercial real estate lending. The guidance is intended to help ensure that institutions pursuing a significant commercial real estate lending strategy remain healthy and profitable while continuing to serve the credit needs of their communities. The agencies are concerned that rising commercial real estate loan concentrations may expose institutions to unanticipated earnings and capital volatility in the event of adverse changes in commercial real estate markets. The guidance reinforces and enhances existing regulations and guidelines for safe and sound real estate lending. The guidance provides supervisory criteria, including numerical indicators to assist in identifying institutions with potentially significant commercial real estate loan concentrations that may warrant greater supervisory scrutiny. The guidance does not limit banks’ commercial real estate lending, but rather guides institutions in developing risk management practices and levels of capital that are commensurate with the level and nature of their commercial real estate concentrations. The lending and risk management practices will be taken into account in supervisory evaluation of capital adequacy. Our commercial real estate portfolio as of December 31, 2007 meets the definition of commercial real estate concentration as set forth in the final guidelines. If our risk management practices are found to be deficient, it could result in increased reserves and capital costs. 19 Table of Contents We operate in a highly regulated environment; changes in federal and state laws and regulations and accounting principles may adversely affect us. We are a bank holding company. Bank holding companies and their subsidiaries operate in a highly regulated environment, subject to extensive supervision and examination by federal and state bank regulatory agencies. We are subject to changes in federal and state law, as well as changes in regulation and governmental policies, income tax law, and accounting principles. Any change in applicable regulations, or federal or state legislation, or in accounting principles could have a significant impact on us and our results of operations. Additional legislation or regulations, including any that could be brought about by the current sub-prime loan crisis, may be enacted or adopted in the future that could significantly affect our powers, authority, and operations. If new legislation, regulations, or accounting principles are enacted or adopted, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. In particular, we are subject to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board. First Community Bank, as a state member bank of the Federal Reserve System, is subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board and the New Mexico Financial Institutions Division of the Regulation and Licensing Department and, because its deposits are insured, by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Our operations in Colorado, Utah, and Arizona may also be subject to regulation and supervision by the State of Colorado Division of Banking, the Utah Department of Financial Institutions, and the Arizona State Banking Department, respectively. Regulators have significant discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by banks and bank holding companies in the performance of the regulators’ supervisory and enforcement duties. If regulators exercise these powers, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We currently qualify, and have elected with the Federal Reserve Board, to be a financial holding company under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. Financial holding companies may engage in a wider range of activities and may affiliate with a wider range of companies than may bank holding companies that are not financial holding companies. If we were to engage in activities or affiliate with companies permissible only for financial holding companies, and we were to lose our status as a financial holding company, we could be required to cease those activities or divest those companies. This could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We do not currently engage in activities, and are not currently affiliated with any companies, in reliance on our financial holding company status. The Federal Reserve Board has a policy stating that a bank holding company is expected to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to a subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support the subsidiary bank. Under this doctrine, the Federal Reserve may require a bank holding company to make capital injections into a troubled subsidiary bank and may charge the bank holding company with engaging in unsafe and unsound practices if it fails to commit resources to such a subsidiary bank. A capital injection may be required at times when the holding company may be required to borrow the funds or otherwise obtain the funds from external sources. Banking regulations may restrict our ability to pay dividends. Although we hold all of the outstanding capital stock of First Community Bank, we are a legal entity separate and distinct from First Community Bank. Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock will depend primarily on the ability of First Community Bank to pay dividends to us. First Community Bank’s ability to pay dividends and make other capital distributions to us is governed by federal and state law. Federal and state regulatory limitations on a bank’s dividends generally are based on the bank’s capital levels and current and retained earnings. The earnings of First Community Bank may not be sufficient to make capital distributions to us in an amount sufficient for us to service our obligations or to pay dividends on our common stock. 20 Table of Contents First Community Bank is prohibited under federal law from paying any dividend that would cause it to become “undercapitalized.” As of December 31, 2007, First Community Bank met the capital requirements of a “well capitalized” institution under applicable Federal Reserve Board regulations. We cannot assure you that the bank will remain “well capitalized.” It is the policy of the Federal Reserve Board that bank holding companies should pay cash dividends on common stock only out of income available from the past year and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s expected future needs and financial condition. Federal Reserve Board policy also provides that bank holding companies should not maintain such a level of cash dividends that would undermine the bank holding company’s ability to provide financial resources as needed to its insured banking subsidiaries. Additionally, the Federal Reserve Board has the right to object to a distribution on safety and soundness grounds. Depending upon the circumstances, the Federal Reserve Board could take the position that paying a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice. The terms of our trust preferred securities may restrict our ability to pay dividends. If we suspend payments on our trust preferred securities, we will not be able to pay dividends to holders of our common stock. The terms of our trust preferred securities allow us to suspend payments of interest, at our option, for up to five years. We expect that similar provisions will exist in any future offerings of trust preferred securities. However, if we exercise our option to suspend those payments, we will be prohibited from paying any dividends on any class of capital stock for as long as the trust preferred interest payments remain suspended. We are currently paying interest on our trust preferred securities and have no plans to suspend those payments. However, we cannot assure you that we will not suspend payments in the future. Defaults in the repayment of loans may negatively affect our business. A borrower’s default on its obligations under one or more of our loans may result in lost principal and interest income and increased operating expenses as a result of the allocation of management time and resources to the collection and work-out of the loan. In certain situations, where collection efforts are unsuccessful or acceptable work-out arrangements cannot be reached, we may have to write-off the loan in whole or in part. In these situations, we may acquire real estate or other assets, if any, which secure the loan through foreclosure or other similar available remedies. In these cases, the amount owed under the defaulted loan often exceeds the value of the assets acquired. We regularly make a determination of an allowance for loan losses based on available information, including the quality of and trends in our loan portfolio, economic conditions, the value of the underlying collateral, historical charge-offs, and the level of our non-accruing loans. Provisions for this allowance result in an expense for the period. If, as a result of general economic conditions or an increase in defaulted loans, we determine that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses are necessary, we may incur additional expenses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowances for loan losses and the values we attribute to real estate acquired through foreclosure or other similar remedies. These regulatory agencies may require us to adjust our determination of the value for these items. If we are required to adjust our allowances for loan losses, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect our profitability. The banking business is highly competitive, and our profitability depends upon our ability to compete in our market areas. We compete with other commercial and savings banks and savings and loan associations. We also compete with credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking firms, asset-based non-bank lenders, and governmental organizations that may offer subsidized financing at lower rates than those we offer. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial and other resources than we do. Although we have been able to compete effectively in the past, we may not be able to compete effectively in the future. Our large competitors may also in the future attempt to respond directly to our marketing strategy by emphasizing similar services. 21 Table of Contents Environmental liability associated with commercial lending could result in losses. In the course of our business, we may acquire through foreclosure properties securing loans that are in default. Particularly in commercial real estate lending, there is a risk that hazardous substances could be discovered on these properties. In this event, under some circumstances we might be required to remove these substances from the affected properties at our sole cost and expense. The cost of this removal could substantially exceed the value of the affected properties. We may not have adequate remedies against the prior owner or other responsible parties, and could find it difficult or impossible to sell the affected properties. If we experience these difficulties, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We are dependent on key personnel. Our success has been and continues to be largely dependent on the services of Michael R. Stanford, our President and Chief Executive Officer, H. Patrick Dee, our Executive Vice President and Treasurer, Christopher C. Spencer, our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and other members of management who have significant relationships with our customers. The prolonged unavailability or the unexpected loss of any of these officers could have an adverse effect on our growth and profitability. Our Restated Articles of Incorporation, our Bylaws, and New Mexico law may delay or prevent an acquisition of us by a third party. Our Restated Articles of Incorporation, our Bylaws, and New Mexico law contain provisions that make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors. These provisions also could discourage proxy contests and may make it more difficult for you and other shareholders to elect your own representatives as directors and take other corporate actions. Our Restated Articles of Incorporation do not permit cumulative voting of shareholders in the election of directors. As a result, the holders of a majority of our outstanding shares control the election of all our directors. We currently have a staggered board, which means that only one-third of our board can be replaced by shareholders at any annual meeting. Directors may not be removed without cause except with the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of our shareholders. The Board of Directors of First State Bancorporation has approved an amendment to the Company’s Articles of Incorporation to provide for annual elections and abolish the staggered board structure which will be presented to the shareholders for vote at the 2008 annual meeting. If our shareholders pass the amendment, directors will be elected to hold office until the next annual meeting commencing with the annual meeting in 2009. Those directors elected in 2008 and prior years will serve their staggered terms. Our Restated Articles of Incorporation also prohibit business combinations with a person who acquires 10% or more of any class of our equity securities, including our common stock, unless the acquiror receives prior approval for the business combination from at least 66.6% of the votes entitled to vote at a meeting of our shareholders held to vote on the proposed business combination. This provision in our Restated Articles of Incorporation is in addition to the limitations that New Mexico law provides that may discourage potential acquirors from purchasing shares of our common stock. Under New Mexico law, our directors may consider the interest of persons other than our shareholders when faced with unsolicited offers for control of us. For example, our directors may consider the interest of our employees, suppliers, creditors, the communities we serve, and the State of New Mexico generally in evaluating any change of control offer. These and other provisions of New Mexico law and our governing documents may have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might be in the best interest of our shareholders. 22 Table of Contents We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions. The success of acquisitions depends, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated growth opportunities, economies of scale, and other benefits from combining of operations into ours. To realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, our management team must develop strategies and implement business plans that will successfully combine the businesses. If we do not realize economies of scale and other anticipated benefits as a result of acquisitions, the value of our common stock may decline. An extended disruption of our vital infrastructure could negatively impact our operations, results, and financial condition. Our operations depend upon, among other things, our infrastructure, including equipment, information and telecommunications technologies, and facilities. An extended disruption of vital infrastructure by fire, power loss, computer hacking or viruses, terrorist activity, natural disaster, telecommunications failure, or other events beyond our control could impact the financial services industry as a whole and our business. Our business recovery plan may not work as intended or may not prevent significant interruptions of our operations. Rapid technological changes may adversely affect the value of our current or future technologies to us and our customers, which could cause us to increase expenditures to upgrade and protect our technology or develop and protect competing technologies for delivering our services. Technology in our industry is evolving rapidly. Our ability to compete and our future results depend in part on our ability to make timely and cost-effective enhancements and additions to our technology, to introduce new products and services that meet customer demands, and to keep pace with rapid advancements in technology. Maintaining flexibility to respond to technological and market dynamics may require substantial expenditures and lead-time. We cannot assure you that we will successfully identify and develop new products or services in a timely manner, that offerings, technologies, or services developed by others will not render our offerings obsolete or noncompetitive, or that the technologies in which we focus our investments will achieve acceptance in the marketplace and provide a return on our investment. Material breaches of our systems may have a significant effect on our business. We collect, process, and store sensitive consumer data by utilizing computer systems and telecommunications networks operated by both us and third party service providers. We have security, backup and recovery systems in place, as well as a business continuity plan to ensure the system will not be inoperable. We also have security to prevent unauthorized access to the system. In addition, we require our third party service providers to maintain similar controls. However, we cannot be certain that the measures will be successful. A security breach in the system and loss of confidential information such as credit card numbers and related information could result in losing the customers’ confidence and thus the loss of their business. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 