Item 1A: Risk Factors. Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements in this Form 10-K are forward-looking statements, within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”). These statements are based on management’s current expectations or predictions of future results or events. We make these forward-looking statements in reliance on the safe harbor provisions provided under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, included in this report which relate to performance, development or activities that we expect or anticipate will or may happen in the future, are forward looking statements. The discussions regarding our growth strategy, expansion of operations in our markets, acquisitions, dispositions, competition, loan and deposit growth or decline, timing of new branch openings, capital expectations, and response to consolidation in the banking industry include forward-looking statements. Other forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking words such as “believe,” “expect,” “may,” “might,” “will,” “should,” “seek,” “could,” “approximately,” “intend,” “plan,” “estimate,” or “anticipate” or the negative of those words or other similar expressions. Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties and are based on numerous assumptions. They are not guarantees of future performance. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statement. Some factors include changes in interest rates, local business conditions, government regulations, lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial markets, loss of key personnel or inability to hire suitable personnel, asset quality and loan loss trends, faster or slower than anticipated growth, economic conditions, our competitors’ responses to our marketing strategy or new competitive conditions, and competition in the geographic and business areas in which we conduct our operations. Forward-looking statements contained herein are made only as of the date made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, we caution that there are important factors, in addition to those listed above, that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include the following: Our independent registered public accounting firm has expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm in their audit report for the period ended December 31, 2009 has expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, noting in their report that our Regulator Agreement (discussed below), among other things restricts certain operations and requires us to maintain sufficient capital and to submit a capital plan. Our independent registered public accounting firm also notes that further decline in our capital ratios or failure to increase capital could expose us to additional restrictions and regulatory actions, including being placed into a FDIC-administered receivership or conservatorship. Our audited financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of these uncertainties. If we cannot continue as a going concern, our shareholders will lose some or all of their investment in the Company. Management has determined that significant additional sources of capital will likely be required for the Company to continue operating through 2010 and beyond. Although management does not believe that the Company currently has the ability to raise new capital through a public offering at an acceptable price, management continues to work with the Company’s investment bankers to evaluate alternative capital strengthening strategies, and are currently working on other initiatives to strengthen the Company’s capital position including the possibility of entering into a business combination with a strategic partner or a transaction with a private equity group. However, there can be no assurance that the review of strategic alternatives will result in the Company pursuing any particular transaction or strategy, or if it pursues any such transaction or strategy, that it will be completed. 19 Table of Contents We operate in a highly regulated environment; changes in federal and state laws and regulations and accounting principles may adversely affect us. We are a bank holding company. Bank holding companies and their subsidiaries operate in a highly regulated environment, subject to extensive supervision and examination by federal and state bank regulatory agencies. We are subject to changes in federal and state law, as well as changes in regulation and governmental policies, income tax law, and accounting principles. The significant federal and state banking regulations that affect us are described in this report under the heading “Business — Regulation and Supervision”. Recent events have resulted in legislators, regulators and authoritative bodies, such as the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and various taxing authorities responding by adopting and/or proposing substantive revisions to laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies and interpretations. Further, federal monetary policy as implemented through the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or Federal Reserve, can significantly affect credit conditions in our markets. If new legislation, regulations, or accounting principles are enacted or adopted, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. In particular, we are subject to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board. First Community Bank, as a state member bank of the Federal Reserve System, is subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board and the New Mexico Financial Institutions Division of the Regulation and Licensing Department and, because its deposits are insured, by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Our operations in Arizona may also be subject to regulation and supervision by the Arizona State Banking Department. Regulators have significant discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by banks and bank holding companies in the performance of the regulators’ supervisory and enforcement duties. If regulators exercise these powers, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. The Federal Reserve Board has a policy stating that a bank holding company is expected to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to a subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support the subsidiary bank. Under this doctrine, the Federal Reserve may require a bank holding company to make capital injections into a troubled subsidiary bank and may charge the bank holding company with engaging in unsafe and unsound practices if it fails to commit resources to such a subsidiary bank. A capital injection may be required at times when the holding company may be required to borrow the funds or otherwise obtain the funds from external sources. If we are required to make such a capital injection, we may need to seek capital in order to do so. We do not believe we currently have the ability to raise new capital through a public offering at an acceptable price. We continue to work with our investment bankers to evaluate alternative capital strengthening strategies, and are currently working on other initiatives to strengthen our capital position including the possibility of entering into a business combination with a strategic partner, or a transaction with a private equity group. However, there can be no assurance that the review of strategic alternatives will result in the Company pursuing any particular transaction or strategy, or if it pursues any such transaction or strategy, that it will be completed. Non-compliance of our Regulator Agreement may adversely affect our operations. As a result of a safety and soundness examination of the Company and our subsidiary First Community Bank, which was conducted jointly by the Federal Reserve and the New Mexico Financial Institutions Division, we entered into an agreement on July 2, 2009 (the “Regulator Agreement”). Under the terms of the Regulator Agreement, we agreed, among other things, to engage an independent consultant acceptable to the regulators to assess the Bank’s management and staffing needs, assess the qualifications and performance of all officers of the Bank, and assess the current structure and compositions of the Bank’s board of directors and its committees. In addition, within 60 days of the Regulator Agreement, the Company and or the Bank was required to submit a written plan to strengthen lending and credit risk 20 Table of Contents management practices and improve the Bank’s position regarding past due loans, problem loans, classified loans, and other real estate owned; maintain sufficient capital at the Bank, holding company and the consolidated level; improve the Bank’s earnings and overall condition; and improve management of the Bank’s liquidity position, funds management process, and interest rate risk management. The Company and or the Bank have also agreed to maintain an adequate allowance for loan and lease losses; charge-off or collect assets classified as “loss” in the Report of Examination that have not been previously collected or charged off; not to pay any dividends; not to distribute any interest, principal or other sums on trust preferred securities; not to issue, increase or guarantee any debt; not to purchase or redeem any shares of the Company’s stock; and not to accept any new brokered deposits, even if the Bank is considered well capitalized. There can be no assurance that the Company and or the Bank’s plans or level of capital will be deemed sufficient by the Regulators. We continue to work closely with the Regulators regarding the Regulator Agreement and believe that the Company and the Bank are in full compliance with the Regulator Agreement, except for the requirement to submit an acceptable capital plan. Capital plans for the Company and the Bank were submitted timely, but were not accepted by the regulators due to uncertainty of our ability to execute the plans. We are continuing to work toward full compliance with the requirements of the capital plans. However, there can be no assurance that the Company and or the Bank will be able to comply fully with the provisions of the Regulator Agreement, or that efforts to comply with the Regulator Agreement will not have adverse effects on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. In addition, compliance with the terms of the Regulator Agreement may be expensive, and may take a significant amount of time of our management. However, if we fail to comply with the terms of the Regulator Agreement, we may be subject to further regulations. There can be no assurance that the recent efforts by legislators and regulators will help stabilize the U.S. financial system, and the expiration of programs implemented under such legislation may have unintended adverse effects on us. In response to market disruptions, legislators and financial regulators have implemented a number of mechanisms designed to stabilize the financial markets, including the provision of direct and indirect assistance to distressed financial institutions, assistance by the banking authorities in arranging acquisitions of weakened banks and broker-dealers and implementation of programs by the Federal Reserve, to provide liquidity to the commercial paper markets. On October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, as amended, (“EESA”), was enacted which, among other things, authorized the United States Department of the Treasury, or the Treasury, to provide up to $700 billion of funding to stabilize and provide liquidity to the financial markets. On October 14, 2008, the Secretary of the Treasury announced the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”) Capital Purchase Program, a program in which $250 billion of the funds under EESA are made available for the purchase of preferred equity interests in qualifying financial institutions. On February 17, 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”), was enacted which amended, in certain respects, EESA and provided an additional $787 billion in economic stimulus funding. Also in 2009, legislation proposing significant structural reforms to the financial services industry was also introduced in the U.S. Congress and passed by the House of Representatives. Among other things, the legislation proposes the establishment of a consumer financial protection agency, which would have broad authority to regulate providers of credit, savings, payment and other consumer financial products and services. Other recent initiatives include: • the Federal Reserve’s proposed guidance on incentive compensation policies at banking organizations; • proposals to limit a lender’s ability to foreclose on mortgages or make such foreclosures less economically viable, including by allowing Chapter 13 bankruptcy plans to “cram down” the value of certain mortgages on a consumer’s principal residence to its market value and/or reset interest rates and monthly payments to permit defaulting debtors to remain in their home; and • accelerating the effective date of various provisions of the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009, which restrict certain credit and charge card practices, require expanded disclosures to consumers and provide consumers with the right to opt out of interest rate increases (with limited exceptions). 21 Table of Contents The overall effects of these and other legislative and regulatory efforts on the financial markets remain uncertain and they may not have the intended stabilization results. These efforts may even have unintended harmful consequences on the U.S. financial system and our business. Should these or other legislative or regulatory initiatives have unintended effects, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. To the extent that we qualify and participate in these programs or other programs, there is no assurance that such programs will remain available for sufficient periods of time or on acceptable terms to benefit us, and the expiration of such programs could have unintended adverse effects on us. In addition, we may need to modify our strategies and business operations in response to these changes. We may also incur increased capital requirements and constraints or additional costs in order to satisfy new regulatory requirements. Given the volatile nature of the current market and the uncertainties underlying efforts to mitigate or reverse disruptions, we may not timely anticipate or manage existing, new or additional risks, contingencies or developments in the current or future environment. Our failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Non-compliance with laws and regulations could result in fines, sanctions and other enforcement actions. Federal and state regulators have broad enforcement powers. If we fail to comply with any laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies or interpretations applicable to us, we could face various sanctions and enforcement actions, which include: • the appointment of a conservator or receiver for us; • the issuance of a cease and desist order that can be judicially enforced; • the termination of our deposit insurance; • the imposition of civil monetary fines and penalties; • the issuance of directives to increase capital; • the issuance of formal and informal agreements; • the issuance of removal and prohibition orders against officers, directors and other institution-affiliated parties; and • the enforcement of such actions through injunctions or restraining orders. The expiration of the FDIC’S TAG program in June may cause depositors to reduce the size of their deposits with us. In October 2008, the FDIC announced its TAG Program as part of the TLG Program. The TAG Program guarantees full deposit insurance coverage of non-interest bearing transaction accounts until June 30, 2010, regardless of the dollar amount and in addition to the standard FDIC insurance. The current expiration of the TAG Program is anticipated to be the Bank’s most significant liquidity risk in the near term and mitigating the liquidity impact of such an event remains a priority. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had 293 deposit accounts with balances greater than $250,000 participating in the TAG Program providing unlimited insurance coverage for a total of $309 million in deposits. Approximately half of the deposits are public funds and half are primarily private business accounts. The FDIC is currently evaluating a possible extension of the TAG Program, however, if the TAG Program is not extended by the FDIC, we will be required to collateralize these outstanding public funds immediately upon expiration. We could also experience withdrawals by account holders of any amounts they have on deposit in excess of the amount then insured by the FDIC. Even if the FDIC decides to extend the TAG Program, it could do so on terms that makes the program unavailable to us or on terms that make the program less attractive for us to participate. Based on current liquidity sources, we anticipate that we will have adequate collateral and other sources of liquidity to meet those potential needs. However, it could require us to utilize the majority of our available liquidity and potentially utilize a portion of our borrowing capacity at the discount window. A significant decline in our deposits and/or an increase in collateral requirements could adversely affect our liquidity and financial position, and could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and prospects. 22 Table of Contents Supervisory guidance on commercial real estate concentrations could restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation have joint supervisory guidance on sound risk management practices for concentrations in commercial real estate lending. The guidance is intended to help ensure that institutions pursuing a significant commercial real estate lending strategy remain healthy and profitable while continuing to serve the credit needs of their communities. The agencies are concerned that rising commercial real estate loan concentrations may expose institutions to unanticipated earnings and capital volatility in the event of adverse changes in commercial real estate markets. The guidance reinforces and enhances existing regulations and guidelines for safe and sound real estate lending. The guidance provides supervisory criteria, including numerical indicators to assist in identifying institutions with potentially significant commercial real estate loan concentrations that may warrant greater supervisory scrutiny. The guidance does not limit banks’ commercial real estate lending, but rather guides institutions in developing risk management practices and levels of capital that are commensurate with the level and nature of their commercial real estate concentrations. The lending and risk management practices will be taken into account in supervisory evaluation of capital adequacy. Our commercial real estate portfolio as of December 31, 2009 meets the definition of commercial real estate concentration as set forth in the final guidelines. If our risk management practices are found to be deficient, it could result in increased reserves and capital costs. Banking regulations have restricted our ability to pay dividends and the ability of our bank subsidiary to pay dividends to us. The Company and First Community Bank are both currently precluded from paying dividends pursuant to the Regulator Agreement. There is no assurance that the Company or First Community Bank will be able or permitted to resume paying dividends. Although we hold all of the outstanding capital stock of First Community Bank, we are a legal entity separate and distinct from First Community Bank. Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock or service our obligations will depend primarily on the ability of First Community Bank to pay dividends to us. First Community Bank’s ability to pay dividends and make other capital distributions to us is governed by federal and state law. Federal and state regulatory limitations on a bank’s dividends generally are based on the bank’s capital levels and current and retained earnings. The earnings of First Community Bank may not be sufficient to make capital distributions to us in an amount sufficient for us to service our obligations or to pay dividends on our common stock. During the third quarter of 2008, we suspended the payment of interest on all of our existing trust preferred securities, pursuant to an informal agreement with regulators. We have since entered into the Regulator Agreement which prohibits us from making such payments. First Community Bank is prohibited under federal law from paying any dividend that would cause it to become “undercapitalized.” It is the policy of the Federal Reserve Board that bank holding companies should pay cash dividends on common stock only out of income available from the past year and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s expected future needs and financial condition. Federal Reserve Board policy also provides that bank holding companies should not maintain such a level of cash dividends that would undermine the bank holding company’s ability to provide financial resources as needed to its insured banking subsidiaries. Additionally, the Federal Reserve Board has the right to object to a distribution on safety and soundness grounds. Depending upon the circumstances, the Federal Reserve Board could take the position that paying a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice. 23 Table of Contents It may be difficult to trade our shares if we are unable to maintain our listing on the Nasdaq Stock Market or if our stock becomes subject to the penny stock rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Our shares are currently listed with Nasdaq on its Global Select Market. This listing is dependent on us maintaining certain minimum listing standards, including, among others, minimum bid price and stockholders’ equity standards. On December 14, 2009 we received a notice from the Nasdaq Stock Market stating that our stock price (technically, the closing bid price) had failed to maintain the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for the 30 consecutive business days preceding the notice. The notice states that we have a grace period of 180 calendar days or until June 14, 2010, in which to regain compliance. If at any time during this grace period the bid price of our common stock closes at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of ten consecutive business days, Nasdaq will provide us with written confirmation of compliance. In the event that we do not regain compliance prior to the expiration of the grace period, Nasdaq will provide written notification that our common stock is subject to delisting. We may apply for the transfer of our common stock to the Nasdaq Capital Market prior to the delisting date if we satisfy all of the requirements, other than the minimum bid price requirement, for initial listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market. If we elect to apply for such transfer, and the application is approved we would be eligible for an additional 180 calendar day grace period. The requirements for initial listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market include a minimum market value of publicly held shares of $15 million, which First State does not currently meet. Should our common stock be delisted, trading could then be conducted on the over-the-counter market on the OTC Bulletin Board, and we could become subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules. These rules impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers. The additional sales practice requirements could materially adversely affect the willingness or ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock. As a result, it may be difficult to sell shares or to obtain accurate quotations as to the price of our shares. In addition, it may be more difficult for us to obtain additional equity financing due to liquidity concerns of potential investors. While we are evaluating all of our options following receipt of the notification from the Nasdaq Stock Market, we believe that improved financial performance that results in an increased stock price, much closer to our tangible book value, is the best potential solution for regaining compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. There is no assurance that our financial performance will improve and other possible solutions may have adverse effects on us, such as adverse reaction from employees, investors and financial markets in general, adverse publicity, and adverse reactions from customers. We believe we are currently in compliance with all other listing standards applicable to us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain compliance or that the Nasdaq Stock Market will not revise the standards in a way that would make it more difficult for us to comply. Our deposit insurance premiums could be substantially higher in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our future earnings. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC insured depository institutions, including the Bank. Under current FDIC regulations, each insured depository institution is assigned to one of nine risk categories based on capital and supervisory measures and, depending on its assigned category, is assessed insurance premiums based on the amount of deposits held. The FDIC charges insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund (“DIF”), at a certain level. Recent bank failures and expectations for further failures in the near-term have reduced insurance reserve funds to their lowest level since 1993. On October 16, 2008, the FDIC published a restoration plan designed to replenish the DIF over a period of five years and to increase the deposit insurance reserve ratio to 1.15% of insured deposits by December 31, 2013. In order to implement the restoration plan, the FDIC proposed to change both its risk-based assessment system and its base assessment rates. On February 27, 2009, the FDIC amended the restoration plan to extend the restoration plan horizon to seven years. The amended restoration plan was accompanied by a final rule setting assessment rates and making adjustments to improve how the assessment system differentiates for risk. Under the final rule, the base assessment rates increased substantially beginning April 1, 2009. Changes to the risk-based assessment system included increasing premiums for institutions that rely on excessive amounts of brokered deposits, including CDARS, increasing premiums for excessive use of secured liabilities, including FHLB advances, lowering premiums for smaller institutions with high capital levels and reducing assessment rates for institutions holding long-term unsecured debt. 24 Table of Contents On May 22, 2009, the FDIC adopted another final rule imposing a 5 basis point special assessment on each insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital, as of June 30, 2009. This special assessment, which totaled $1.4 million for the Bank, was collected on September 30, 2009. On November 17, 2009, the FDIC also published a final rule requiring insured depository institutions to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. On November 12, 2009, the FDIC provided an exemption to the Bank from the prepayment provisions. A change in the risk categories assigned to our Bank, further adjustments to base assessment rates and additional special assessments could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and financial condition. Current market developments may adversely affect our industry, business, results of operations and access to capital. Dramatic declines in the housing market, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in higher levels of non-performing assets and significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial and investment banks. These increased levels of non-performing assets and write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative securities, in turn have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have ceased to provide funding to even the most credit-worthy borrowers or to other financial institutions. The resulting lack of available credit and lack of confidence in the financial markets could continue to materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and our access to capital. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • The processes we use to estimate inherent losses may no longer be reliable because they rely on complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation. • Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future charge-offs. • Our ability to borrow or otherwise raise capital from other financial institutions on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations. • We expect to face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities, and increase compliance challenges. We may incur significant credit losses, particularly in light of current market conditions. We take on credit risk by virtue of making loans and extending loan commitments and letters of credit. Our credit standards, procedures and policies may not prevent us from incurring substantial credit losses, particularly in light of recent market developments. During 2008 and 2009, we experienced deterioration in credit quality, particularly in certain real estate development loans, due, in part, to the impact resulting from the downturn in the prevailing economic, real estate and credit markets. This deterioration resulted in higher levels of non-performing assets, including other real estate owned and internally risk classified loans, thereby increasing our provision for loan losses and decreasing our operating income in 2008 and 2009. As of December 31, 2009, we had total non-performing assets of approximately $323.0 million, 25 Table of Contents compared with approximately $137.2 million as of December 31, 2008 and approximately $48.8 million as of December 31, 2007. Given the current economic conditions and trends, management believes we may continue to experience credit deterioration and higher levels of non-performing loans in the near-term, which will likely have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Defaults in the repayment of loans may negatively affect our business. A borrower’s default on its obligations under one or more of our loans may result in lost principal and interest income and increased operating expenses as a result of the allocation of management time and resources to the collection and work-out of the loan. In certain situations, where collection efforts are unsuccessful or acceptable work-out arrangements cannot be reached, we may have to write-off the loan in whole or in part. In these situations, we may acquire real estate or other assets, if any, which secure the loan through foreclosure or other similar available remedies. In these cases, the amount owed under the defaulted loan often exceeds the value of the assets acquired. We regularly make a determination of an allowance for loan losses based on available information, including the quality of and trends in our loan portfolio, economic conditions, the value of the underlying collateral, historical charge-offs, and the level of our non-accruing loans. Provisions for this allowance result in an expense for the period. Given the current economic conditions and trends, management believes we may continue to experience credit deterioration and higher levels of non-performing loans in the near-term, which may cause us to continue to have negative earnings or otherwise adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. To qualify as collateral under the FHLB credit policy, loans must not be past due 90 days or more or classified substandard or below. Continuing deterioration of the loan performance could result in the Company being unable to satisfy the collateral requirements of the FHLB and the financial condition of the Company may be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2009, our allowance for loan losses was $129.2 million or 6.45% of total loans held for investment. Our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover future loan losses. Future adjustments to the allowance for loan losses may be necessary if economic conditions differ substantially from the assumptions used or further adverse developments arise with respect to our non-performing or performing loans. Material additions to our allowance for loan losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and the values we attribute to real estate acquired through foreclosure or other similar remedies. These regulatory agencies may require us to adjust our determination of the value for these items. If we are required to adjust our allowance for loan losses, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our profitability depends significantly on local and overall economic conditions. Our success is dependent to a significant extent upon local economic conditions in the communities we serve and the general economic conditions in the United States. The economic conditions, including real estate values, in these areas and throughout the United States, have a significant impact on loan demand, the ability of borrowers to repay these loans, and the value of the collateral securing these loans. The current decline in general economic conditions, including the decline in real estate values, has resulted in an increase in our non-performing assets and an increase in our charge-offs on defaulted loans during 2009. A further decline in economic conditions, including depressed real estate values, over a prolonged period of time in any of these areas could cause additional significant increases in non-performing assets and could continue to affect our ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral, which could continue to cause decreased operating results, liquidity, and capital. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 86% of the book value of our loan portfolio consisted of loans collateralized by various types of real estate. 26 Table of Contents Our loan portfolio is currently concentrated in New Mexico, Colorado, Utah, and Arizona. Adverse economic conditions in these states could have a greater effect on our ability to attract deposits and result in high rates of loss and delinquency on our loan portfolio compared to competitors who may have more geographic diversification. Our concentration of real estate loans subjects us to increased risks in the event real estate values continue to decline due to the economic recession, a further deterioration in the real estate markets or other causes. At December 31, 2009, we had approximately $1.7 billion of loans collateralized by various types of real estate, representing approximately 86% of our total loan portfolio. The current economic recession, deterioration in the real estate markets and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures have had an adverse effect on the collateral value for many of our loans and on the repayment ability of many of our borrowers. The continuation or further deterioration of these factors, including increasing foreclosures and unemployment, will continue to have the same or similar adverse effects. In addition, these factors could reduce the amount of loans we make to businesses in the construction and real estate industry, which could negatively impact our interest income and results of operations. A continued decline in real estate values could also lead to higher charge-offs in the event of defaults in our real estate loan portfolio. Similarly, the occurrence of a natural or manmade disaster in our market areas could impair the value of the collateral we hold for real estate secured loans. Any one or a combination of the factors identified above could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our loans are currently concentrated in New Mexico, Colorado, Utah, and Arizona and adverse conditions in those markets could adversely affect operations. Because our loans and deposits are in only a few concentrated geographic areas, our business may be more affected by local economic conditions and could be more vulnerable than banks whose lending and deposit activities are in larger, more geographically diversified markets. A prolonged or more extreme downturn in the local economies in New Mexico, Colorado, Utah, or Arizona could have further adverse effects on business activity, employment, and collateral values, with a corresponding adverse effect on loan growth, income, and on borrowers’ abilities to repay loans. The current economic recession and deterioration in the real estate markets have had an adverse effect on the collateral value for many of our loans and on the repayment ability of many of our borrowers. The continuation or further deterioration of these factors, including increasing foreclosures and unemployment, will continue to have the same or similar adverse effects. In addition, these factors could reduce the amount of loans we make to businesses in the construction and real estate industry, which could negatively impact our interest income and results of operations. A continued significant decline in real estate values could also lead to higher charge-offs in the event of defaults in our real estate loan portfolio. Similarly, the occurrence of a natural or manmade disaster in our market areas could impair the value of the collateral we hold for real estate secured loans. Any one or a combination of the factors identified above could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our real estate construction loan portfolio may expose us to increased credit risk. At December 31, 2009, our portfolio of real estate construction loans totaled $645.3 million or 32.0% of total loans. Approximately 38% of these loans are related to residential construction and approximately 62% are for commercial purposes or vacant land. During 2007, 2008, and 2009, the housing markets declined, evidenced by excess lot inventory and higher levels of completed unsold housing inventory. The decline in the housing market, sub-prime loan crisis, and tightening of credit markets has led to higher than normal foreclosure rates on a national level. Of the states that we operate in, Arizona, where we have the lowest dollar amount of real estate construction loans, has had the largest downturn in the residential real estate market. Although New Mexico, Colorado, and Utah have not experienced as significant a downturn in the residential real estate market, foreclosure rates as well as excess inventory levels have negatively affected the construction industry as well as the acquisition and development sectors exposing us to increased credit risk within our construction loan portfolio. 27 Table of Contents The value of our investments is influenced by varying economic and market conditions and a decrease in value could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition. We classify investment securities in one of three categories and account for them as follows: (1) debt securities that we have the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity are classified as held to maturity and carried at amortized cost; (2) debt and equity securities that are bought and held primarily for the purpose of selling them in the near term are classified as trading securities and carried at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses included in earnings; and (3) debt and equity securities not classified as either held to maturity securities or trading securities are classified as available for sale securities. These are securities that we will hold for an indefinite period of time and may be used as a part of our asset/liability management strategy and may be sold in response to changes in interest rates, prepayments, or similar factors. Available for sale securities are carried at estimated market value, with unrealized gains and losses excluded from earnings and reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity, net of related deferred income taxes. Upon purchase of investment securities, management designates securities as either held to maturity or available for sale. Amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts are calculated using a method that approximates the effective interest method. Declines below cost in the fair value of investment securities that are other-than-temporary are recorded as write-downs of the individual securities to their estimated fair value and are included in earnings as realized losses or other comprehensive income to the extent the impairment is not due to credit. We do not maintain a trading portfolio. In accordance with applicable accounting standards, we review our investment securities to determine if declines in fair value below cost are other-than-temporary. This review is subjective and requires a high degree of judgment. We conduct this review on a quarterly basis, using both quantitative and qualitative factors, to determine whether a decline in value is other-than-temporary. Such factors considered include the length of time and the extent to which market value has been less than cost, financial condition and near term prospects of the issuer, recommendations of investment advisors, and forecasts of economic, market, or industry trends. This review process also entails an evaluation of our ability and intent to hold individual securities until they mature or full cost can be recovered. The current economic environment and recent volatility of the securities markets increase the difficulty of assessing investment impairment and the same influences tend to increase the risk of potential impairment of these assets. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, we have not recorded any charges for other-than-temporary impairment of securities. Over time, the economic and market environment may further deteriorate or provide additional insight regarding the fair value of certain securities, which could change our judgment regarding impairment. This could result in realized losses relating to other-than-temporary declines recorded as an expense. Given the current market conditions and the significant judgments involved, there is continuing risk that further declines in fair value may occur and material other-than-temporary impairments may result in realized losses in future periods which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition. Our small to medium-sized business customers may have less financial resources with which to weather a downturn in the economy. One of the primary focal points of our business development and marketing strategy is serving the banking and financial services needs of small to medium-sized businesses. Small to medium-sized businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. Commercial loans, including commercial real estate loans, are often larger and involve greater risks than other types of lending. Because payments on such loans are often dependent on the successful operation of the property or business involved, repayment of such loans is more sensitive than other types of loans to adverse conditions in the real estate market or the general economy. Accordingly, the recent downturn in the real estate market and the economy has heightened our risk related to commercial loans, particularly commercial real estate loans. At December 31, 2009, we had approximately $1.1 billion of commercial loans, including $883.6 million of commercial real estate loans, representing approximately 56.6% and 43.8% of our total loan portfolio, respectively. If general economic conditions worsen in New 28 Table of Contents Mexico, Colorado, Utah, or Arizona, the businesses of our customers and their ability to repay outstanding loans may be further negatively affected. As a consequence, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability. Our net interest income may be reduced by changes in the interest rate environment. Our earnings depend to a significant extent on the interest rate differential. The interest rate differential or “spread” is the difference between the interest earned on loans, securities, and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings, and other interest-bearing liabilities. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. In particular, changes in the discount rate and the Federal Funds target rate by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“Federal Reserve”) usually lead to changes in interest rates, which affect our interest income, interest expense, and securities portfolio. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Loan volume and yields are affected by market interest rates on loans, and rising interest rates generally are associated with a lower volume of loan originations. We cannot assure you that we can minimize our interest rate risk. In addition, an increase in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect the ability of certain borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume, which may cause us to continue to have negative earnings or otherwise adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our net income is affected by our interest rate sensitivity. Interest rate sensitivity is the difference between our interest-earning assets and our interest-bearing liabilities maturing or repricing within a given time period. Interest rate sensitivity is considered positive when the amount of interest rate sensitive assets exceeds the amount of interest rate sensitive liabilities. Since the middle of 2007, and as of December 31, 2009, the Federal Reserve has lowered the discount rate 500 basis points which has negatively impacted our interest spread. As of December 31, 2009, our cumulative interest rate gap for the period up to three months was a positive $255.3 million. If additional rate decreases occur, our results of operations and financial condition may be further adversely affected. We may not be able to meet the cash flow requirements of our depositors and borrowers unless we have sufficient liquidity. Liquidity is the ability to meet current and future cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost. Our liquidity is used to make loans and to repay deposit liabilities as they become due or are demanded by customers. We regularly monitor our overall liquidity position to ensure that various alternative strategies exist to cover unanticipated events that could affect liquidity. Without sufficient liquidity from these potential sources, we may not be able to meet the cash flow requirements of our depositors and borrowers. Also, see Item 2: “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity.” The recent disruption and illiquidity in the credit markets are continuing challenges that have generally made potential funding sources more difficult to access, less reliable, and more expensive. In addition, liquidity in the inter-bank market, as well as the markets for commercial paper, certificates of deposits, and other short-term instruments have significantly contracted. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced, and in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. These market conditions have made the management of our own and our customers’ liquidity significantly more challenging. At December 31, 2008, all outstanding borrowings with the FHLB were collateralized by a blanket pledge agreement on the Company’s loan portfolio. During 2009, the blanket lien was replaced by a custody arrangement, whereby the FHLB has custody and endorsement of the loans that collateralize the FHLB borrowings. Effective July 29, 2009, the FHLB increased the collateral requirements related to our outstanding borrowing position by reducing the available collateral percentage 29 Table of Contents applied to the unpaid principal balance of our pledged loans. As of December 31, 2009, the FHLB provided an aggregate collateral value of approximately 29% of the total outstanding unpaid principal balance of loans pledged to the FHLB. The FHLB takes into consideration a number of factors in calculating the available collateral value including: credit quality, past due status, loan type and loan documentation exceptions, among other factors. In addition to investment securities with a carrying value of $198 million, loan collateral with par value of approximately $1.3 billion has been delivered to satisfy the requirements of the custody arrangement. For loans to qualify as collateral, they must not be past due 90 days or more, must not be classified substandard or below, and must not be a loan to a director, employee, or agent of the Company or the FHLB. Because collateral values are determined subjectively by the FHLB, there is no assurance that the FHLB will not require additional collateral or repayment of existing borrowings. Based on our current status with the FHLB, the Company no longer has the ability to draw down additional advances. Under the terms of the Bank’s agreement with the FHLB, the FHLB may at its own option call the outstanding debt due and payable if any of the following have occurred: the Bank has suspended payment to any creditor or there has been an acceleration of the maturity of any indebtedness of the Bank to others; the FHLB reasonably and in good faith determines that a material adverse change has occurred in the financial condition of the Bank; or the FHLB reasonably and in good faith deems itself insecure in the collateral even though the Bank is not otherwise in default. Based on the Bank’s agreement with the FHLB and the FHLB’s credit policy, as the existing borrowings mature, they will be allowed to continuously renew for like amounts, but for terms not to exceed thirty days. The Bank has not received any notice from the FHLB regarding a call of its outstanding debt. A further deterioration in the credit markets or a prolonged period without improvement of market liquidity could adversely affect our liquidity and financial position, including our regulatory capital ratios, and could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and prospects. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial services institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients, resulting in a significant credit concentration with respect to the financial services industry overall. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if we become the subject of rumors or questions regarding our financial soundness. The terms of our trust preferred securities may restrict our ability to pay dividends. The terms of our trust preferred securities allow us to suspend payments of interest, at our option, for up to five years. Since we have exercised our option to suspend those payments, we are prohibited from paying any dividends on any class of capital stock for as long as the trust preferred interest payments remain suspended. Pursuant to the Regulator Agreement, we are prohibited from paying interest on all of our existing trust preferred securities. Our ability to make interest payments on the trust preferred securities is highly dependent on receiving dividends from First Community Bank. There is no assurance that we will be able to resume making the interest payments. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect our profitability. The banking business is highly competitive, and our profitability depends upon our ability to compete in our market areas. We compete with other commercial and savings banks and savings and loan associations. We also compete with credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking firms, asset-based non-bank lenders, and governmental 30 Table of Contents organizations that may offer subsidized financing at lower rates than those we offer. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial and other resources than we do. Although we have been able to compete effectively in the past, we may not be able to compete effectively in the future. Our large competitors may also in the future attempt to respond directly to our marketing strategy by emphasizing similar services. We may not be able to manage risks inherent in our business, particularly given the recent turbulent and dynamic market conditions. A comprehensive and well-integrated risk management function is essential for our business. We have adopted various policies, procedures, and systems to monitor and manage risk, including risk associated with our non-performing assets. These policies, procedures, and systems may be inadequate to identify and mitigate all risks inherent in our business. In addition, our business and the markets and industry in which we operate are continuously evolving. We may fail to understand fully the implications of changes in our business or the financial markets and fail to adequately or timely enhance our risk framework to address those changes, particularly given the recent turbulent and dynamic market conditions. If our risk framework is ineffective, either because it fails to keep pace with changes in the financial markets or in our business or for other reasons, we could incur losses and otherwise experience harm to our business. Environmental liability associated with commercial lending could result in losses. In the course of our business, we may acquire through foreclosure properties securing loans that are in default. Particularly in commercial real estate lending, there is a risk that hazardous substances could be discovered on these properties. In this event, under some circumstances we might be required to remove these substances from the affected properties at our sole cost and expense. The cost of this removal could substantially exceed the value of the affected properties. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. We may not have adequate remedies against the prior owner or other responsible parties, and could find it difficult or impossible to sell the affected properties. If we experience these difficulties, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We are dependent on key personnel. Our success has been and continues to be largely dependent on the services of H. Patrick Dee, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Christopher C. Spencer, our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and other members of management who have significant relationships with our customers. The prolonged unavailability or the unexpected loss of any of these officers could have an adverse effect on our growth and profitability. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified employees to operate our business effectively. There is substantial competition for qualified personnel in our markets. Although unemployment rates have been rising in New Mexico and Arizona and the surrounding region, it may still be difficult to attract and retain qualified employees at all management and staffing levels. Failure to attract and retain employees and maintain adequate staffing of qualified personnel could adversely impact our operations and our ability to execute our business strategy. Furthermore, unemployment rates in New Mexico and Arizona are lower than national unemployment rates, which may lead to significant increases in salaries, wages and employee benefits expenses as we compete for qualified, skilled employees. Our Restated Articles of Incorporation and New Mexico law may delay or prevent an acquisition of us by a third party. Our Restated Articles of Incorporation and New Mexico law contain provisions that make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors. These provisions also could discourage proxy contests and may make it more difficult for you and other shareholders to elect your own representatives as directors and take other corporate actions. 31 Table of Contents Our Restated Articles of Incorporation also prohibit business combinations with a person who acquires 10% or more of any class of our equity securities, including our common stock, unless the acquiror receives prior approval for the business combination from at least 66.6% of the votes entitled to vote at a meeting of our shareholders held to vote on the proposed business combination. This provision in our Restated Articles of Incorporation is in addition to the limitations that New Mexico law provides that may discourage potential acquirors from purchasing shares of our common stock. Under New Mexico law, our directors may consider the interest of persons other than our shareholders when faced with unsolicited offers for control of us. For example, our directors may consider the interest of our employees, suppliers, creditors, the communities we serve, and the State of New Mexico generally in evaluating any change of control offer. These and other provisions of New Mexico law and our governing documents may have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might be in the best interest of our shareholders. An extended disruption of our vital infrastructure could negatively impact our operations, results, and financial condition. Our operations depend upon, among other things, vital infrastructure, including equipment, information and telecommunications technologies, power grids, and facilities. An extended disruption of vital infrastructure by fire, power loss, computer hacking or viruses, terrorist activity, natural disaster, telecommunications failure, or other events beyond our control could impact the financial services industry as a whole and our business. Our business recovery plan may not work as intended or may not prevent significant interruptions of our operations. Rapid technological changes may adversely affect the value of our current or future technologies to us and our customers, which could cause us to increase expenditures to upgrade and protect our technology or develop and protect competing technologies for delivering our services. Technology in our industry is evolving rapidly. Our ability to compete and our future results depend in part on our ability to make timely and cost-effective enhancements and additions to our technology, to introduce new products and services that meet customer demands, and to keep pace with rapid advancements in technology. Maintaining flexibility to respond to technological and market dynamics may require substantial expenditures and lead-time. We cannot assure you that we will successfully identify and develop new products or services in a timely manner, that offerings, technologies, or services developed by others will not render our offerings obsolete or noncompetitive, or that the technologies in which we focus our investments will achieve acceptance in the marketplace and provide a return on our investment. Material breaches of our systems may have a significant effect on our business. We collect, process, and store sensitive consumer data by utilizing computer systems and telecommunications networks operated by both us and third party service providers. We have security, backup and recovery systems in place, as well as a business continuity plan to ensure the system will not be inoperable. We also have security to prevent unauthorized access to the system. In addition, we require our third party service providers to maintain similar controls. However, we cannot be certain that the measures will be successful. A breach in the security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, investment, credit card and other information systems. A breach of the security of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 32 Table of Contents 