Item 1A: Risk Factors. Interest Rate Risk Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability. Our net interest income may be reduced by changes in the interest rate environment. Our earnings depend to a significant extent on the interest rate differential. The interest rate differential or “spread” is the difference between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. In particular, changes in the discount rate by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System usually lead to changes in interest rates, which affect our interest income, interest expense and securities portfolio. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Loan volume and yields are affected by market interest rates on loans, and rising interest rates generally are associated with a lower volume of loan originations. First State cannot assure you that it can minimize its interest rate risk. In addition, an increase in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect the ability of certain borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect its net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume and overall profitability. In addition, our net income is affected by our interest rate sensitivity. Interest rate sensitivity is the difference between our interest-earning assets and our interest-bearing liabilities maturing or repricing within a given time period. Interest rate sensitivity is considered positive when the amount of interest rate sensitive assets exceeds the amount of interest rate sensitive liabilities. As of December 31, 2005, our interest sensitivity was positive. As a result, if a decrease in rates occurs, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Government Policies We operate in a highly regulated environment; changes in federal and state laws and regulations and accounting principles may adversely affect us. We are a bank holding company. Bank holding companies and their depository institution subsidiaries operate in a highly regulated environment, subject to extensive supervision and examination by federal and state bank regulatory agencies. We are subject to changes in federal and state law, as well as changes in regulation and governmental policies, income tax law and accounting principles. Any change in applicable regulations, or federal or state legislation or in accounting principles could have a significant impact on us and our results of operations. Additional legislation or regulations may be enacted or adopted in the future that could significantly affect our powers, authority and operations. If new legislation, regulations or accounting principles are enacted or adopted, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents In particular, we are subject to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board. First Community Bank, as a state member bank of the Federal Reserve System, is subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board and the New Mexico Financial Institutions Division of the Regulation and Licensing Department and, because its deposits are insured, by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Our operations in Colorado, Utah, and Arizona may also be subject to regulation and supervision by the Banking Board of the State of Colorado, the Utah Department of Financial Institutions, and the Arizona State Banking Department, respectively. Regulators have significant discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by banks and bank holding companies in the performance of the regulators’ supervisory and enforcement duties. If regulators exercise these powers, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. The Federal Reserve Board has a policy stating that a bank holding company is expected to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to a subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support the subsidiary bank. Under this doctrine, the Federal Reserve may require a bank holding company to make capital injections into a troubled subsidiary bank and may charge the bank holding company with engaging in unsafe and unsound practices if it fails to commit resources to such a subsidiary bank. A capital injection may be required at times when the holding company may be required to borrow the funds or otherwise obtain the funds from external sources. Banking regulations may restrict our ability to pay dividends. Although we hold all of the outstanding capital stock of First Community Bank, we are a legal entity separate and distinct from First Community Bank. Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock will depend primarily on the ability of First Community Bank to pay dividends to us. The Bank’s ability to pay dividends and make other capital distributions to us is governed by federal and state law. Federal and state regulatory limitations on the bank’s dividends generally are based on the bank’s capital levels and current and retained earnings. The earnings of the Bank may not be sufficient to make capital distributions to us in an amount sufficient for us to service our obligations or to pay dividends on our common stock. First Community Bank is prohibited under federal law from paying any dividend that would cause it to become “undercapitalized.” As of December 31, 2005, First Community Bank met the capital requirements of a “well capitalized” institution under applicable Federal Reserve Board regulations. We cannot assure you that the bank will remain “well capitalized.” It is the policy of the Federal Reserve Board that bank holding companies should pay cash dividends on common stock only out of income available over the past year and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s expected future needs and financial condition. Federal Reserve Board policy also provides that bank holding companies should not maintain such a level of cash dividends that would undermine the bank holding company’s ability to provide financial resources as needed to its insured banking subsidiaries. Additionally, the Federal Reserve Board has the right to object to a distribution on safety and soundness grounds. Depending upon the circumstances, the Federal Reserve Board could take the position that paying a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice. Credit Risk Defaults in the repayment of loans may negatively affect our business. A borrower’s default on its obligations under one or more of our loans may result in lost principal and interest income and increased operating expenses as a result of the allocation of management time and resources to the collection and work out of the loan. In certain situations, where collection efforts are unsuccessful or acceptable work-out arrangements cannot be reached, we may have to write-off the loan in whole or in part. In these situations, we may acquire real estate or other assets, if any, which secure the loan through foreclosure or other similar available remedies. In these cases, the amount owed under the defaulted loan often exceeds the value of the assets acquired. 18 Table of Contents We periodically make a determination of an allowance for loan losses based on available information, including the quality of our loan portfolio, economic conditions, the value of the underlying collateral and the level of our non-accruing loans. Provisions for this allowance result in an expense for the period. If, as a result of general economic conditions or an increase in defaulted loans, we determine that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses are necessary, we may incur additional expenses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowances for loan losses and the values we attribute to real estate acquired through foreclosure or other similar remedies. These regulatory agencies may require us to adjust our determination of the value for these items. If we are required to adjust our allowances for loan losses, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Environmental liability associated with commercial lending could result in losses. In the course of our business, we may acquire through foreclosure properties securing loans that are in default. Particularly in commercial real estate lending, there is a risk that hazardous substances could be discovered on these properties. In this event, under some circumstances we might be required to remove these substances from the affected properties at our sole cost and expense. The cost of this removal could substantially exceed the value of the affected properties. We may not have adequate remedies against the prior owner or other responsible parties, and could find it difficult or impossible to sell the affected properties. If we experience these difficulties, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Competition Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect our profitability. The banking business is highly competitive, and our profitability depends upon our ability to compete in our market areas. We compete with other commercial and savings banks and savings and loan associations. We also compete with credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking firms, asset-based non-bank lenders and governmental organizations that may offer subsidized financing at lower rates than those we offer. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial and other resources than we do. Although we have been able to compete effectively in the past, we may not be able to compete effectively in the future. Our large competitors may also in the future attempt to respond directly to our marketing strategy by emphasizing similar services. Economy Our profitability depends significantly on local and overall economic conditions. Our success is dependent to a significant extent upon local economic conditions in the communities we serve and the general economic conditions in the United States. The economic conditions, including real estate values, in these areas and throughout the United States have a significant impact on loan demand, the ability of borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A decline in economic conditions, including a decline in real estate values, over a prolonged period of time in any of these areas could cause significant increases in nonperforming assets, which could cause decreased operating results, liquidity and capital. Our loan portfolio is also concentrated in New Mexico, Colorado and Utah. Adverse economic conditions in these states could affect our ability to attract deposits and result in high rates of loss and delinquency on our loan portfolio compared to competitors who may have more geographic diversification. Our small to medium-sized business customers may have fewer financial resources with which to weather a downturn in the economy. One of the primary focal points of our business development and marketing strategy is serving the banking and financial services needs of small to medium-sized businesses. Small to medium-sized businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. If general economic conditions become unfavorable in New Mexico, Colorado, Utah and now Arizona, the businesses of our customers and their ability to repay outstanding loans may be negatively affected. As a consequence, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents Integration Risk The Integration Process Could Disrupt Each Company’s Ongoing Businesses. We have operated and, until the completion of the integration of the acquisitions of Access and NMFC, will continue to operate each acquired bank independently. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, as well as the disruption of each bank’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, any or all of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors and employees after the acquisitions or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions. Integration efforts between the two banks and us will also divert management attention and resources. These integration matters could have an adverse effect on our operations. Acquisition Risk First State May Fail To Realize the Anticipated Benefits of the Acquisitions. The success of the acquisitions of Access and NMFC will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated growth opportunities, economies of scale and other benefits from combining the operations of Access and NMFC into ours. To realize the anticipated benefits of this combination, our management team must develop strategies and implement a business plan that will successfully combine the businesses. If we do not realize economies of scale and other anticipated benefits as a result of the acquisitions, the value of our common stock may decline. Disruptions An extended disruption of our vital infrastructure could negatively impact our operations, results and financial condition. Our operations depend upon, among other things, our infrastructure, including equipment and facilities. An extended disruption of vital infrastructure by fire, power loss, computer hacking or viruses, terrorist activity, natural disaster, telecommunications failure or other events beyond our control could impact the financial services industry as a whole and our business. Our business recovery plan may not work as intended or may not prevent significant interruptions of our operations. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 