Item 1A: Risk Factors. Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements in this Form 10-K are forward-looking statements, within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”). These statements are based on management’s current expectations or predictions of future results or events. We make these forward-looking statements in reliance on the safe harbor provisions provided under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, included in this report which relate to performance, development or activities that we expect or anticipate will or may happen in the future, are forward looking statements. The discussions regarding our growth strategy, expansion of operations in our markets, acquisitions, dispositions, competition, loan and deposit growth or decline, timing of new branch openings, capital expectations, and response to consolidation in the banking industry include forward-looking statements. Other forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking words such as “believe,” “expect,” “may,” “might,” “will,” “should,” “seek,” “could,” “approximately,” “intend,” “plan,” “estimate,” or “anticipate” or the negative of those words or other similar expressions. Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties and are based on numerous assumptions. They are not guarantees of future performance. A number of important factors could cause actual 18 Table of Contents results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statement. Some factors include changes in interest rates, local business conditions, government regulations, lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial markets, loss of key personnel or inability to hire suitable personnel, faster or slower than anticipated growth, economic conditions, our competitors’ responses to our marketing strategy or new competitive conditions, and competition in the geographic and business areas in which we conduct our operations. Forward-looking statements contained herein are made only as of the date made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, we caution that there are important factors, in addition to those listed above, that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include the following: There can be no assurance that the recently enacted Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 will help stabilize the U.S. financial system, and the expiration of programs implemented under such legislation may have unintended adverse effects on us. In response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets, on October 3, 2008, President Bush signed the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”) into law. Pursuant to the EESA, the U.S. Treasury has the authority, among other things, to purchase up to $700 billion of mortgage-backed and other securities from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets. The U.S. Treasury and the bank regulatory agencies have also announced coordinated programs to invest an aggregate of $250 billion (out of the $700 billion) in capital issued by qualifying U.S. financial institutions and to guarantee senior debt of all FDIC insured institutions and their qualifying holding companies, as well as deposits in non-interest bearing transaction accounts. The capital purchase program involves the issuance by qualifying institutions of preferred stock and warrants to purchase common stock to the U.S. Treasury. The U.S. federal government has taken or is considering taking other actions to address the financial crises that could further impact our business. There can be no assurance regarding the actual impact that the EESA or these programs will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of the EESA and these programs to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to capital or the trading price of our common stock. Even if legislative or regulatory efforts successfully stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets, we may need to modify our strategies and business operations. We may also incur increased capital requirements and constraints or additional costs in order to satisfy new regulatory requirements. Given the volatile nature of the current market disruption and the uncertainties underlying efforts to mitigate or reverse the disruption, we may not timely anticipate or manage existing, new or additional risks, contingencies or developments in the current or future environment. Our failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. To the extent that we qualify and participate in these programs or other programs, there is no assurance that such programs will remain available for sufficient periods of time or on acceptable terms to benefit us, and the expiration of such programs could have unintended adverse effects on us. Current market developments may adversely affect our industry, business, results of operations and access to capital. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in higher levels of non-performing assets and significant write- 19 Table of Contents downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial and investment banks. These increased levels of non-performing assets and write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative securities, in turn have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have ceased to provide funding to even the most credit-worthy borrowers or to other financial institutions. The resulting lack of available credit and lack of confidence in the financial markets could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and our access to capital. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • The processes we use to estimate inherent losses may no longer be reliable because they rely on complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation. • Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future charge-offs. • Our ability to borrow or otherwise raise capital from other financial institutions on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations. • We expect to face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities, and increase compliance challenges. It may be difficult to trade our shares if we are unable to maintain our listing on the Nasdaq Stock Market or if our stock becomes subject to the penny stock rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Our shares are currently listed with Nasdaq on its Global Select Market. This listing is dependent on us maintaining certain minimum listing standards, including, among others, minimum bid price and stockholders’ equity standards. If we continue to incur losses as we did in 2008 and cannot maintain the standards for continued listing on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, our common stock could be subject to delisting. Trading in our common stock could then be conducted on the over-the-counter market on the OTC Bulletin Board, and we could become subject to the penny stock rules maintained by the SEC. These rules impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers. The additional sales practice requirements could materially adversely affect the willingness or ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock. As a result, it may be difficult to sell shares or to obtain accurate quotations as to the price of our shares. In addition, it may be more difficult for us to obtain additional equity financing due to liquidity concerns of potential investors. Recently, our share price has been below $1.00, but not for thirty consecutive business days, the determining time for failure to meet the minimum bid price on Nasdaq. We have not received a notice from Nasdaq concerning our trading price and Nasdaq has suspended its rules requiring a minimum bid price until July 20, 2009. We believe we are currently in compliance with all other listing standards applicable to us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain compliance or that the Nasdaq Stock Market will not revise the standards in a way that would make it more difficult for us to comply. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial services institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients, resulting in a significant credit concentration with respect to the financial services industry 20 Table of Contents overall. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if we become the subject of rumors or questions regarding our financial soundness. We operate in a highly regulated environment; changes in federal and state laws and regulations and accounting principles may adversely affect us. We are a bank holding company. Bank holding companies and their subsidiaries operate in a highly regulated environment, subject to extensive supervision and examination by federal and state bank regulatory agencies. We are subject to changes in federal and state law, as well as changes in regulation and governmental policies, income tax law, and accounting principles. Any change in applicable regulations, or federal or state legislation, or in accounting principles could have a significant impact on us and our results of operations. Additional legislation or regulations, including the EESA and any other legislation or regulation that could be brought about by the current credit and liquidity crisis, may significantly affect our powers, authority, and operations. If new legislation, regulations, or accounting principles are enacted or adopted, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. In particular, we are subject to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board. First Community Bank, as a state member bank of the Federal Reserve System, is subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board and the New Mexico Financial Institutions Division of the Regulation and Licensing Department and, because its deposits are insured, by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Our operations in Colorado and Arizona may also be subject to regulation and supervision by the State of Colorado Division of Banking, and the Arizona State Banking Department, respectively. Regulators have significant discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by banks and bank holding companies in the performance of the regulators’ supervisory and enforcement duties. If regulators exercise these powers, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. The Federal Reserve Board has a policy stating that a bank holding company is expected to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to a subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support the subsidiary bank. Under this doctrine, the Federal Reserve may require a bank holding company to make capital injections into a troubled subsidiary bank and may charge the bank holding company with engaging in unsafe and unsound practices if it fails to commit resources to such a subsidiary bank. A capital injection may be required at times when the holding company may be required to borrow the funds or otherwise obtain the funds from external sources. As a result of the most recent safety and soundness examination of the Company and our subsidiary First Community Bank, which was conducted jointly by the Federal Reserve and the New Mexico Financial Institutions Division, we entered into an Informal Agreement on September 26, 2008. Under the terms of the Informal Agreement, we agreed, among other things, to formulate a written plan to maintain a sufficient capital position at the Bank and at the Company, including attaining a tier 1 leverage ratio of 9% and a total risk-based capital ratio of 12% at the Bank level, with no date specified for achieving those levels. In addition, the Company and the Bank have agreed to maintain an adequate allowance for loan and lease losses; not to pay any dividends; not to distribute any interest, principal or other sums on trust preferred securities; not to issue or guarantee any debt or trust preferred securities; and not to purchase or redeem any shares of the Company’s stock. This Informal Agreement can be terminated by a joint decision between the Regulators if they conclude such action is warranted. The value of our investments is influenced by varying economic and market conditions and a decrease in value could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition. We classify investment securities in one of three categories and account for them as follows: (1) debt securities that we have the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity are classified as held to maturity and 21 Table of Contents carried at amortized cost; (2) debt and equity securities that are bought and held primarily for the purpose of selling them in the near term are classified as trading securities and carried at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses included in earnings; and (3) debt and equity securities not classified as either held to maturity securities or trading securities are classified as available for sale securities. These are securities that we will hold for an indefinite period of time and may be used as a part of our asset/liability management strategy and may be sold in response to changes in interest rates, prepayments, or similar factors. Available for sale securities are carried at estimated market value, with unrealized gains and losses excluded from earnings and reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity, net of related deferred income taxes. Upon purchase of investment securities, management designates securities as either held to maturity or available for sale. Amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts are calculated using a method that approximates the effective interest method. Declines in the fair value of individual investment securities held to maturity and available for sale below their cost that are other-than-temporary are recorded as write-downs of the individual securities to their fair value and the related write-downs are included in earnings as realized losses. We do not maintain a trading portfolio. In accordance with applicable accounting standards, we review our investment securities to determine if declines in fair value below cost are other-than-temporary. This review is subjective and requires a high degree of judgment. We conduct this review on a quarterly basis, using both quantitative and qualitative factors, to determine whether a decline in value is other-than-temporary. Such factors considered include the length of time and the extent to which market value has been less than cost, financial condition and near term prospects of the issuer, recommendations of investment advisors, and forecasts of economic, market, or industry trends. This review process also entails an evaluation of our ability and intent to hold individual securities until they mature or full cost can be recovered. The current economic environment and recent volatility of the securities markets increase the difficulty of assessing investment impairment and the same influences tend to increase the risk of potential impairment of these assets. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2008, we recorded the following charges for other-than-temporary impairment of securities: an impairment charge in the first quarter of 2008 of $333,000 on FHLMC preferred stock, an impairment charge in the third quarter of 2008 of an additional $565,000 on such FHLMC preferred stock, and an impairment charge in the fourth quarter of 2008 of an additional $50,000 on such FHLMC preferred stock. Over time, the economic and market environment may further deteriorate or provide additional insight regarding the fair value of certain securities, which could change our judgment regarding impairment. This could result in realized losses relating to other-than-temporary declines recorded as an expense. Given the current market conditions and the significant judgments involved, there is continuing risk that further declines in fair value may occur and material other-than-temporary impairments may result in realized losses in future periods which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition. Defaults in the repayment of loans may negatively affect our business. A borrower’s default on its obligations under one or more of our loans may result in lost principal and interest income and increased operating expenses as a result of the allocation of management time and resources to the collection and work-out of the loan. In certain situations, where collection efforts are unsuccessful or acceptable work-out arrangements cannot be reached, we may have to write-off the loan in whole or in part. In these situations, we may acquire real estate or other assets, if any, which secure the loan through foreclosure or other similar available remedies. In these cases, the amount owed under the defaulted loan often exceeds the value of the assets acquired. We regularly make a determination of an allowance for loan losses based on available information, including the quality of and trends in our loan portfolio, economic conditions, the value of the underlying collateral, historical charge-offs, and the level of our non-accruing loans. Provisions for this allowance result in an expense for the period. Given the current economic conditions and trends, management believes we will 22 Table of Contents continue to experience credit deterioration and higher levels of nonperforming loans in the near-term, which may cause us to continue to have negative earnings or otherwise adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2008, our allowance for loan losses was $79.7 million or 2.91% of total loans held for investment. Our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover future loan losses. Future adjustments to the allowance for loan losses may be necessary if economic conditions differ substantially from the assumptions used or further adverse developments arise with respect to our nonperforming or performing loans. Material additions to our allowance for loan losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowances for loan losses and the values we attribute to real estate acquired through foreclosure or other similar remedies. These regulatory agencies may require us to adjust our determination of the value for these items. If we are required to adjust our allowances for loan losses, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our profitability depends significantly on local and overall economic conditions. Our success is dependent to a significant extent upon local economic conditions in the communities we serve and the general economic conditions in the United States. The economic conditions, including real estate values, in these areas and throughout the United States, have a significant impact on loan demand, the ability of borrowers to repay these loans, and the value of the collateral securing these loans. The current decline in general economic conditions, including the decline in real estate values, has resulted in an increase in our nonperforming assets and an increase in our charge-offs on defaulted loans during 2008. A further decline in economic conditions, including depressed real estate values, over a prolonged period of time in any of these areas could cause additional significant increases in nonperforming assets and could continue to affect our ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral, which could continue to cause decreased operating results, liquidity, and capital. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 85% of the book value of our loan portfolio consisted of loans collateralized by various types of real estate. Our loan portfolio is currently concentrated in New Mexico, Colorado, Utah, and Arizona. Adverse economic conditions in these states could have a greater effect on our ability to attract deposits and result in high rates of loss and delinquency on our loan portfolio compared to competitors who may have more geographic diversification. We may not be able to meet the cash flow requirements of our depositors and borrowers unless we have sufficient liquidity. Liquidity is the ability to meet current and future cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost. Our liquidity is used to make loans and to repay deposit liabilities as they become due or are demanded by customers. We regularly monitor our overall liquidity position to ensure that various alternative strategies exist to cover unanticipated events that could affect liquidity. Without sufficient liquidity from these potential sources, we may not be able to meet the cash flow requirements of our depositors and borrowers. Also, see Item 7: “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources.” The recent disruption and illiquidity in the credit markets are continuing challenges that have generally made potential funding sources more difficult to access, less reliable, and more expensive. In addition, liquidity in the inter-bank market, as well as the markets for commercial paper, certificates of deposits, and other short-term instruments have significantly contracted. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced, and in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. These market conditions 23 Table of Contents have made the management of our own and our customers’ liquidity significantly more challenging. At December 31, 2008, all outstanding borrowings with the FHLB were collateralized by a blanket pledge agreement on the Company’s loan portfolio. Subsequent to December 31, 2008, the FHLB notified the Company that its blanket lien will be replaced by a custody arrangement, whereby the FHLB will have custody and endorsement of the loans that collateralize its FHLB borrowings. Management believes that we have sufficient loan and investment securities collateral to deliver to the FHLB to fully secure existing borrowings. However, as the collateral values are determined subjectively by the FHLB, there is no assurance that the FHLB will not require additional collateral or repayment of existing borrowings. A further deterioration in the credit markets or a prolonged period without improvement of market liquidity could adversely affect our liquidity and financial position, including our regulatory capital ratios, and could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and prospects. Supervisory guidance on commercial real estate concentrations could restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation have joint supervisory guidance on sound risk management practices for concentrations in commercial real estate lending. The guidance is intended to help ensure that institutions pursuing a significant commercial real estate lending strategy remain healthy and profitable while continuing to serve the credit needs of their communities. The agencies are concerned that rising commercial real estate loan concentrations may expose institutions to unanticipated earnings and capital volatility in the event of adverse changes in commercial real estate markets. The guidance reinforces and enhances existing regulations and guidelines for safe and sound real estate lending. The guidance provides supervisory criteria, including numerical indicators to assist in identifying institutions with potentially significant commercial real estate loan concentrations that may warrant greater supervisory scrutiny. The guidance does not limit banks’ commercial real estate lending, but rather guides institutions in developing risk management practices and levels of capital that are commensurate with the level and nature of their commercial real estate concentrations. The lending and risk management practices will be taken into account in supervisory evaluation of capital adequacy. Our commercial real estate portfolio as of December 31, 2008, meets the definition of commercial real estate concentration as set forth in the final guidelines. If our risk management practices are found to be deficient, it could result in increased reserves and capital costs. Our small to medium-sized business customers may have less financial resources with which to weather a downturn in the economy. One of the primary focal points of our business development and marketing strategy is serving the banking and financial services needs of small to medium-sized businesses. Small to medium-sized businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. Commercial loans, including commercial real estate loans, are often larger and involve greater risks than other types of lending. Because payments on such loans are often dependent on the successful operation of the property or business involved, repayment of such loans is more sensitive than other types of loans to adverse conditions in the real estate market or the general economy. Accordingly, the recent downturn in the real estate market and the economy has heightened our risk related to commercial loans, particularly commercial real estate loans. If general economic conditions worsen in New Mexico, Colorado, Utah, or Arizona, the businesses of our customers and their ability to repay outstanding loans may be further negatively affected. As a consequence, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability. Our net interest income may be reduced by changes in the interest rate environment. Our earnings depend to a significant extent on the interest rate differential. The interest rate differential or “spread” is the difference between the interest earned on loans, securities, and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, 24 Table of Contents borrowings, and other interest-bearing liabilities. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. In particular, changes in the discount rate by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“Federal Reserve”) usually lead to changes in interest rates, which affect our interest income, interest expense, and securities portfolio. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Loan volume and yields are affected by market interest rates on loans, and rising interest rates generally are associated with a lower volume of loan originations. We cannot assure you that we can minimize our interest rate risk. In addition, an increase in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect the ability of certain borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume, which may cause us to continue to have negative earnings or otherwise adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our net income is affected by our interest rate sensitivity. Interest rate sensitivity is the difference between our interest-earning assets and our interest-bearing liabilities maturing or repricing within a given time period. Interest rate sensitivity is considered positive when the amount of interest rate sensitive assets exceeds the amount of interest rate sensitive liabilities. Since the middle of 2007, and as of December 31, 2008, the Federal Reserve has lowered the discount rate 500 basis points which has negatively impacted our interest spread. As of December 31, 2008, our cumulative interest rate gap for the period up to three months was a positive $23.9 million. The most recent rate cut in December 2008, which affected the prime rate by 75 basis points, will again negatively impact our interest spread. If additional rate decreases occur, our results of operations and financial condition may be further adversely affected. Our loans are currently concentrated in New Mexico, Colorado, Utah, and Arizona and adverse conditions in those markets could adversely affect operations. Because our loans and deposits are in only a few concentrated geographic areas, our business may be more affected by local economic conditions and could be more vulnerable than banks whose lending and deposit activities are in larger, more geographically diversified markets. A prolonged or more extreme downturn in the local economies in New Mexico, Colorado, Utah, or Arizona could have further adverse effects on business activity, employment, and collateral values, with a corresponding adverse effect on loan growth, income, and on borrowers’ abilities to repay loans. The current economic recession and deterioration in the real estate markets have had an adverse effect on the collateral value for many of our loans and on the repayment ability of many of our borrowers. The continuation or further deterioration of these factors, including increasing foreclosures and unemployment, will continue to have the same or similar adverse effects. In addition, these factors could reduce the amount of loans we make to businesses in the construction and real estate industry, which could negatively impact our interest income and results of operations. A continued significant decline in real estate values could also lead to higher charge-offs in the event of defaults in our real estate loan portfolio. Similarly, the occurrence of a natural or manmade disaster in our market areas could impair the value of the collateral we hold for real estate secured loans. Any one or a combination of the factors identified above could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our real estate construction loan portfolio may expose us to increased credit risk. At December 31, 2008, our portfolio of real estate construction loans totaled $896.1 million or 32.5% of total loans. Approximately 47% of these loans are related to residential construction and approximately 53% are for commercial purposes or vacant land. During 2007 and 2008, the housing markets declined, evidenced by excess lot inventory and higher levels of completed unsold housing inventory. The decline in the housing market, sub-prime loan crisis, and tightening of credit markets has led to higher than normal foreclosure rates on a national level. Of the states that we operate in, Arizona, where we have the lowest dollar amount of real estate construction loans, has had the largest downturn in the residential real estate market. Although New Mexico, 25 Table of Contents Colorado, and Utah have not experienced as significant a downturn in the residential real estate market, foreclosure rates have had a ripple effect on the construction industry as well as the acquisition and development sectors exposing us to increased credit risk within our construction loan portfolio. Banking regulations may restrict our ability to pay dividends. Although we hold all of the outstanding capital stock of First Community Bank, we are a legal entity separate and distinct from First Community Bank. Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock or service our obligations will depend primarily on the ability of First Community Bank to pay dividends to us. First Community Bank’s ability to pay dividends and make other capital distributions to us is governed by federal and state law. Federal and state regulatory limitations on a bank’s dividends generally are based on the bank’s capital levels and current and retained earnings. The earnings of First Community Bank may not be sufficient to make capital distributions to us in an amount sufficient for us to service our obligations or to pay dividends on our common stock. During the third quarter of 2008, we suspended the payment of interest on all of our existing trust preferred securities, pursuant to the Informal Agreement. First Community Bank is prohibited under federal law from paying any dividend that would cause it to become “undercapitalized.” It is the policy of the Federal Reserve Board that bank holding companies should pay cash dividends on common stock only out of income available from the past year and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s expected future needs and financial condition. Federal Reserve Board policy also provides that bank holding companies should not maintain such a level of cash dividends that would undermine the bank holding company’s ability to provide financial resources as needed to its insured banking subsidiaries. Additionally, the Federal Reserve Board has the right to object to a distribution on safety and soundness grounds. Depending upon the circumstances, the Federal Reserve Board could take the position that paying a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice. The Company and First Community Bank are both currently precluded from paying dividends pursuant to the Informal Agreement. There is no assurance that the Company or First Community Bank will be able or permitted to resume paying dividends. The terms of our trust preferred securities may restrict our ability to pay dividends. The terms of our trust preferred securities allow us to suspend payments of interest, at our option, for up to five years. However, if we exercise our option to suspend those payments, we will be prohibited from paying any dividends on any class of capital stock for as long as the trust preferred interest payments remain suspended. During the third quarter of 2008, we suspended the payment of interest on all of our existing trust preferred securities, pursuant to the Informal Agreement. Our ability to make interest payments on the trust preferred securities is highly dependent on receiving dividends from First Community Bank. There is no assurance that we will be able to resume making the interest payments. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect our profitability. The banking business is highly competitive, and our profitability depends upon our ability to compete in our market areas. We compete with other commercial and savings banks and savings and loan associations. We also compete with credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking firms, asset-based non-bank lenders, and governmental organizations that may offer subsidized financing at lower rates than those we offer. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial and other resources than we do. Although we have been able to compete effectively in the past, we may not be able to compete effectively in the future. Our large competitors may also in the future attempt to respond directly to our marketing strategy by emphasizing similar services. 26 Table of Contents We may not be able to manage risks inherent in our business, particularly given the recent turbulent and dynamic market conditions. A comprehensive and well-integrated risk management function is essential for our business. We have adopted various policies, procedures, and systems to monitor and manage risk, including risk associated with our nonperforming assets. These policies, procedures, and systems may be inadequate to identify and mitigate all risks inherent in our business. In addition, our business and the markets and industry in which we operate are continuously evolving. We may fail to understand fully the implications of changes in our business or the financial markets and fail to adequately or timely enhance our risk framework to address those changes, particularly given the recent turbulent and dynamic market conditions. If our risk framework is ineffective, either because it fails to keep pace with changes in the financial markets or in our business or for other reasons, we could incur losses and otherwise experience harm to our business. Environmental liability associated with commercial lending could result in losses. In the course of our business, we may acquire through foreclosure properties securing loans that are in default. Particularly in commercial real estate lending, there is a risk that hazardous substances could be discovered on these properties. In this event, under some circumstances we might be required to remove these substances from the affected properties at our sole cost and expense. The cost of this removal could substantially exceed the value of the affected properties. We may not have adequate remedies against the prior owner or other responsible parties, and could find it difficult or impossible to sell the affected properties. If we experience these difficulties, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We are dependent on key personnel. Our success has been and continues to be largely dependent on the services of Michael R. Stanford, our President and Chief Executive Officer, H. Patrick Dee, our Executive Vice President and Treasurer, Christopher C. Spencer, our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and other members of management who have significant relationships with our customers. The prolonged unavailability or the unexpected loss of any of these officers could have an adverse effect on our growth and profitability. Our Restated Articles of Incorporation, our Bylaws, and New Mexico law may delay or prevent an acquisition of us by a third party. Our Restated Articles of Incorporation, our Bylaws, and New Mexico law contain provisions that make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors. These provisions also could discourage proxy contests and may make it more difficult for you and other shareholders to elect your own representatives as directors and take other corporate actions. Our Restated Articles of Incorporation also prohibit business combinations with a person who acquires 10% or more of any class of our equity securities, including our common stock, unless the acquiror receives prior approval for the business combination from at least 66.6% of the votes entitled to vote at a meeting of our shareholders held to vote on the proposed business combination. This provision in our Restated Articles of Incorporation is in addition to the limitations that New Mexico law provides that may discourage potential acquirors from purchasing shares of our common stock. Under New Mexico law, our directors may consider the interest of persons other than our shareholders when faced with unsolicited offers for control of us. For example, our directors may consider the interest of our employees, suppliers, creditors, the communities we serve, and the State of New Mexico generally in evaluating any change of control offer. These and other provisions of New Mexico law and our governing documents may have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might be in the best interest of our shareholders. 27 Table of Contents We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions. The success of acquisitions depends, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated growth opportunities, economies of scale, and other benefits from combining of operations into ours. To realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, our management team must develop strategies and implement business plans that will successfully combine the businesses. If we do not realize economies of scale and other anticipated benefits as a result of acquisitions, the value of our common stock may decline. An extended disruption of our vital infrastructure could negatively impact our operations, results, and financial condition. Our operations depend upon, among other things, our infrastructure, including equipment, information and telecommunications technologies, and facilities. An extended disruption of vital infrastructure by fire, power loss, computer hacking or viruses, terrorist activity, natural disaster, telecommunications failure, or other events beyond our control could impact the financial services industry as a whole and our business. Our business recovery plan may not work as intended or may not prevent significant interruptions of our operations. Rapid technological changes may adversely affect the value of our current or future technologies to us and our customers, which could cause us to increase expenditures to upgrade and protect our technology or develop and protect competing technologies for delivering our services. Technology in our industry is evolving rapidly. Our ability to compete and our future results depend in part on our ability to make timely and cost-effective enhancements and additions to our technology, to introduce new products and services that meet customer demands, and to keep pace with rapid advancements in technology. Maintaining flexibility to respond to technological and market dynamics may require substantial expenditures and lead-time. We cannot assure you that we will successfully identify and develop new products or services in a timely manner, that offerings, technologies, or services developed by others will not render our offerings obsolete or noncompetitive, or that the technologies in which we focus our investments will achieve acceptance in the marketplace and provide a return on our investment. Material breaches of our systems may have a significant effect on our business. We collect, process, and store sensitive consumer data by utilizing computer systems and telecommunications networks operated by both us and third party service providers. We have security, backup and recovery systems in place, as well as a business continuity plan to ensure the system will not be inoperable. We also have security to prevent unauthorized access to the system. In addition, we require our third party service providers to maintain similar controls. However, we cannot be certain that the measures will be successful. A security breach in the system and loss of confidential information such as credit card numbers and related information could result in losing the customers’ confidence and thus the loss of their business. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 