Item 1A. Risk Factors Our short- and long-term success is subject to many factors that are beyond our control. Stockholders and prospective stockholders in the Company should consider carefully the following risk factors, in addition to the information contained in this report. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains "forward-looking statements," within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth below. We rely on relationships with certain customers and any adverse change in those relationships will harm our business. A limited number of OEM customers continue to provide a substantial portion of our revenues. Presently, there are only a small number of OEM customers in the digital document product market to which we can market our technology and services. Therefore, our ability to offset a significant decrease in the revenues from a particular customer or to replace a lost customer is severely limited. We currently rely upon our OEM block license agreements to maintain our current revenue levels. If we were unable to continue to recognize revenue upon the execution of some of our block license agreements there may be an immediate and significant drop in the amount of revenue being reported as earned in the short-term and this may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and prospects. During fiscal year 2007, two customers, Kyocera-Mita Corporation and Konica-Minolta each generated greater than 10% of our revenues, and collectively contributed 70% of our revenues. Block license revenues during the same period were $16.7 million, or 50% of revenues. During fiscal year 2006, three customers, Kyocera-Mita Corporation, Konica-Minolta, and Seiko Epson Corporation each generated greater than 10% of our revenues, and -13- collectively contributed 60% of revenues. Block license revenues during the same period were $15.8 million, or 44% of revenues. Our existing capital resources may not be sufficient and if we are unable to raise additional capital, our business may suffer. Our principal source of liquidity is our cash and cash equivalents, which, as of January 31, 2007 were approximately $16.4 million in the aggregate. The current ratio of current assets to current liabilities was 3.3:1. For the fiscal year ended January 31, 2007, our operations provided $3.4 million in cash. On March 1, 2005, we entered into a binding Memorandum of Understanding, or MOU, with Kyocera-Mita Corporation to provide a range of non-exclusive engineering services and product development services. Pursuant to the MOU, Kyocera-Mita has agreed to pay us an aggregate of $24.0 million, which will be paid in $2.0 million quarterly payments over the initial three-year term of the MOU. Our long term liquidity is dependent upon this MOU. Should the MOU expire and we do not enter into definitive agreements on similar terms with Kyocera-Mita, our cash flow assumptions would be materially and adversely affected. If we do not generate anticipated cash flow from licensing and services, or if expenditures are greater than expected, we most likely would attempt to reduce discretionary spending, which could require a delay, scaling back or elimination of some or all of our internal development efforts, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and prospects. Furthermore, if we do not experience positive cash flows as anticipated, and we are unable to increase revenues or cut costs so that revenues generated from operating activities are sufficient to meet our obligations, we will be required to obtain additional capital from other sources, such as issuances of debt or equity securities, or bank financing. The Company may not be able to obtain additional capital on commercially reasonable terms or at all which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, liquidity and financial condition, our prospects, and the scope of strategic alternatives and initiatives available to us. We rely on relationships with Adobe Systems Incorporated and Novell Inc., and any adverse change in those relationships will harm our business. We have licensing agreements with Adobe Systems Incorporated and Novell Inc. to bundle and sublicense their licensed products with our licensed software. These relationships accounted for $15.2 million in revenues and an associated $4.6 million in cost of revenues during fiscal year ended January 31, 2007. Should the agreements with either of these vendors be terminated or canceled, there is no assurance that we could replace that source of revenue within a short period of time, if at all. Such an event would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our current licensing agreement with Adobe Systems Incorporated expires in December 31, 2007, and if we do not enter into an amendment to extend the Adobe License Agreement, or enter into a new Adobe licensing agreement before such expiration date, this may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In 1999, we entered into a PostScript Software Development License and Sublicense Agreement with Adobe Systems Incorporated, referred to here as the Adobe License Agreement, which enables us to offer a convenient and optimized Adobe PostScript-enabled solution, as well as directly sublicense PostScript, to our OEM customers. We have amended the Adobe License Agreement several times since 1999. On December 7, 2006, the Adobe License Agreement was amended and extended from its termination date of July 23, 2007 to December 31, 2007. The Adobe License Agreement, as amended, is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2007, referred to here as the Adobe Expiration Date. If we are unable to enter into a new licensing agreement with Adobe by the Adobe Expiration Date, or if we are unable to enter into an amendment extending the term of the Adobe License Agreement, we would lose the ability to sublicense Adobe PostScript and this would negatively impact our ability to earn future sublicensing revenue. This may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. See "We rely on relationships with Adobe Systems Incorporated and Novell Inc., and any adverse change in those relationships will harm our business." -14- We have negotiated with Adobe Systems Incorporated and Canon Inc. to remedy a contract dispute, which, if not remedied, could result in the loss of the Adobe agreement and could harm our business. We have negotiated with Canon Inc. regarding the PostScript sublicense agreement between us and Canon executed as of April 1, 2001. The sublicense did not include several terms required to be included in all OEM sublicenses by our license with Adobe. Although Adobe has indicated to us that it has no current intention to pursue claims for alleged breach of the Adobe Peerless PostScript Sublicensing Agreement, Adobe has not agreed to waive the requirement that the missing terms be included in the Canon sublicense. To date, we have been unable to amend the Canon sublicense in a manner acceptable to both Canon and Adobe. Furthermore, there is no assurance that we will be able to resolve the issues in a manner acceptable to both Adobe and Canon. Thus, Adobe may exercise its right to terminate its license agreement with us and take other legal action against us, if it so chooses. Termination of the Adobe agreement would have a material adverse effect on our future operating results. See “Risk Factors - We rely on relationships with Adobe Systems Incorporated and Novell Inc., and any adverse change in those relationships will harm our business” above. If we do not enter into definitive agreements relating to the Memorandum of Understanding, or MOU, with Kyocera-Mita Corporation, it may harm our financial results. We may never come to agreement with Kyocera-Mita on the terms of definitive agreements regarding the development of Kyocera-Mita products by us or enter into definitive agreements relating to their relationship with us described in the MOU. If the parties do not enter into definitive agreements, our financial results may be harmed. We have not yet defined with Kyocera-Mita the products that will utilize our technologies, and we have not determined or finalized the terms and conditions associated with the licensing of our and any third party’s technologies arising out of this development relationship. Should the MOU be terminated and Kyocera-Mita and the Company not enter into definitive agreements, the Company’s cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. If the Company does not enter into a licensing agreement with Kyocera-Mita for the newly developed technologies, the Company’s cash flows may be materially and adversely affected and the Company would need to substantially reduce its operations to match the decrease in cash flows and may need to seek to raise additional capital. Under such circumstances, there is doubt as to whether we would be able to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms or at all. In addition to delays in the finalizing of the definitive agreements, the Company has no control over how quickly, if at all, Kyocera-Mita will deliver our technologies into the market place for sale. We originally anticipated some of these technologies would be licensed in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007 and that they would be delivered to the market for sale in late second or early third quarter of fiscal year 2008. It does not appear that this timeline will be achieved and it is uncertain as to when these products will be market ready. The Company’s expected licensing revenues, by any measure, are a function of many factors over which the Company has no control, including but not limited to the market’s acceptance of Kyocera-Mita products, the continued downward price pressure on the suggested retail price of printers in the Kyocera-Mita market segments, downward price pressure on the Company’s core intellectual properties and the overall volume of printers being delivered to the market. The uncertainty as to the introduction and success of the Kyocera-Mita products could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The uncertainty as to the introduction and success of the Kyocera-Mita products, coupled with a static to declining sales trend of our existing licenses for next year, downward price pressure on our existing technologies, uncertainty surrounding third-party license revenue sharing agreements, (see “ Risk Factors - Our current licensing agreement with Adobe Systems International expires December 31, 2007, and if we do not enter into an amendment to extend the Adobe License Agreement, or enter into a new Adobe licensing agreement before such expiration date, this may have a material adverse effect on our operating results”), downward price pressure on OEM products and an anticipated consolidation of the number of OEMs in the marketplace may result in a decline in our operating revenues in the first half of fiscal year 2008. The Company is currently looking at ways to reduce its operating expenses over the next few quarters to achieve profitability as it weathers any delay in the delivery of new Kyocera-Mita products into the market. -15- This coupled with a static to declining sales trend of our existing licenses for next year, downward price pressure on our existing technologies, uncertainty surrounding third-party license revenue sharing agreements, (see “Risk Factors - Our current licensing agreement with Adobe Systems International expires in December 31, 2007 and if we do not enter into an amendment to extend the Adobe License Agreement, or enter into a new Adobe licensing agreement before such expiration date, this may have a material adverse effect on our operating results”), downward price pressure on OEM products and an anticipated consolidation of the number of OEMs in the marketplace may result in a decline in our operating revenues in the first half of fiscal year 2008. The Company is currently looking at ways to reduce its operating expenses over the next few quarters to achieve profitability as it weathers any delay in the delivery of new Kyocera-Mita products into the market. We may be unable to implement our business plan effectively. Our ability to implement our business plan, develop and offer products and manage expansion in rapidly developing and disparate marketplaces requires comprehensive and effective planning and management. The growth in the complexity of business relationships with current and potential customers and third parties has placed, and will continue to place, a significant strain on management systems and resources. Our failure to continue to improve upon the operational, managerial and financial controls, reporting systems and procedures in our imaging business or our failure to expand and manage our workforce could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. If we enter new markets or distribution channels this could result in higher operating expenses that may not be offset by increased revenue. We continue to explore opportunities to develop or acquire product lines different from our current products, such as software applications for document management and workflow, color laser multi-function products, and hardware/peripherals and communication applications. We expect to invest funds to develop new distribution and marketing channels for these new products and services, which will increase our operating expenses. We do not know if we will be successful in developing these channels or whether the market will accept any newly acquired products or services or if we will generate sufficient revenues from these activities to offset the additional operating expenses we incur. In addition, even if we are able to introduce new products or services, if customers do not accept these new products or services or if we are not able to price such products or services competitively, our operating results will likely suffer. While the Company intends to invest in or acquire a software solution company, there is no certainty or guarantee that the Company will be successful in finding and/or agreeing with a third party for such an investment or acquisition. While the Company intends to invest in or acquire a software solution company, there is no certainty or guarantee that the Company will be successful in finding and/or agreeing with a third party for such an investment or acquisition. In the event an agreement is reached, the Company may not have the necessary capital to complete a transaction. Even if we do invest in or acquire such a software solution company, there is no guarantee that the transaction will be successful in producing revenue or profits. The increased use of low-cost offshore engineering and test labor by our customers and competitors as well as the shift by OEMs towards in-house development poses significant risks to our competitive position. Our OEM customers, potential customers and competitors continue to seek lower cost alternatives for their engineering needs. Some of our OEM customers, potential customers and competitors have developed extensive offshore operations that may be capable of delivering lower cost solutions than we are able to deliver. The expanding use of lower cost offshore engineering and test labor may make it difficult for us to compete based on the -16- price of our services and result in a significant loss of sales. Similarly, our research and development costs may be higher than those of our OEM customers, potential customers and competitors who are using lower cost offshore engineering services, which may result in our development of less technology for a given research and development budget than our OEM customers, potential customers and/or competitors. In addition, nearly all our OEM customers have significant investments in their existing solutions and have the substantial resources necessary to enhance existing products and to develop future products. Our OEM customers have or may develop competing imaging system technologies in-house and may implement these systems into their products, thereby replacing our current or proposed technologies, eliminating the need for our services and products and limiting future opportunities for us. These trends could have a negative impact on our competitive position and financial results. Our increased use of low-cost offshore engineering and test labor could significantly harm our business. We continue to investigate ways to effectively increase our use of offshore engineering and test labor. In addition to the general risks of doing international business as noted below, our relationships with offshore companies pose specific risks. For example, although we have entered into confidentiality agreements with these offshore companies, we cannot ensure that they will not end their relationships with us and use information they gain from their relationship with us to launch competing products or offer competing services. Similarly, we cannot assure you that key personnel of these offshore companies will not be successfully solicited by our competitors especially in geographic regions where aggressive solicitation of skilled personnel is common, such as India and China. Should these companies, their personnel or others with specific knowledge of our business and technology, decide to compete with us, it could significantly harm our business. The impact of Microsoft’s Vista™ operating system could have an adverse impact on our future licensing revenues. Among the changes announced for Microsoft’s Vista™ operating system are fundamental changes to the printing and networking subsystems within the operating system. Of particular relevance to us is Microsoft’s development of a new page description language (XPS), and peripheral device connectivity methods (Windows Rally), the format of which would be licensed by Microsoft on a royalty-free basis to both OEMs and third party technology providers such as us. Should we fail to support these technologies on a timely basis or should OEMs decide to support these technologies on their own without the use of our products, it could have an adverse impact on our potential licensing revenues from these enhanced products. In addition, to the extent that our current PDL products are perceived as being gradually rendered obsolete over the long term by these new Microsoft technologies, it could have an adverse impact on our ability to generate new sales of our current PDL products. If we are unable to achieve our expected level of sales of Peerless imaging and networking technologies on a timely basis, our future revenue and operating results may be harmed. Our future operating results will depend to a significant extent on the success of our new Peerless imaging and networking technologies including licensing revenue from these new technologies. We have spent a significant amount of time and capital developing our new Peerless imaging and networking technologies. Peerless high performance color technologies may not be accepted by the marketplace for many reasons including, among others, incompatibility with existing or forthcoming systems, lack of perceived need by customers, uncertainty whether the benefits exceed the cost, the availability of alternatives and the unwillingness to use new or unproven products. If the marketplace does not accept Peerless imaging and networking technologies or if the marketplace takes additional time to accept Peerless imaging and networking technologies than we expect, our future revenues and operating results may be harmed. Our licensing revenue is subject to significant fluctuations Our recurring licensing revenue model has shifted from per-unit royalties paid upon OEM shipment of our product and guaranteed quarterly minimum royalties to a model that results in revenues associated with the sale of SDKs and block licenses. The reliance on block licenses has occurred due to aging OEM products in the marketplace, OEM demands in negotiating licensing agreements, reductions in the number of OEM products -17- shipping and a product mix that changed from object code licensing arrangements to SDKs. Revenues may continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter as the number and value of design wins vary, or if the signing of block licenses are delayed or the licensing opportunities are lost to competitors. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our revenue from engineering services is subject to significant fluctuations. We have experienced a significant reduction in the financial performance of our engineering services that has been caused by many factors, including: • product development delays; • potential non-recurring engineering reduction for product customization; • third party delays; • loss of new engineering services contracts; and • globalization of the engineering workforce. There can be no assurance that these and similar factors will not continue to impact future engineering services results adversely. We may be unable to deploy our employees effectively in connection with changing demands from our OEM customers. The industry in which we operate has experienced significant downturns, both in the United States and abroad, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles and declines in general economic conditions. Over the past four years, we have experienced a shift in OEM demand from the historically prevailing requirement for turnkey solutions toward SDKs. Because Peerless has experienced a general decrease in demand for engineering services, engineering services resources have been re-deployed to research and development. Should this trend abruptly change, we may be unable to re-deploy labor effectively and in a timely manner, which inability could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The future demand for our products is uncertain. Our monochrome technology and products have been in the marketplace for an average of more than 33 months as of January 31, 2007. The average age of current technology and products in the marketplace reflects the aging of our monochrome technology and products. OEMs, in a number of instances, have not selected our solutions because the OEMs perceived that our solutions did not meet their technical requirements, developed the technology themselves or utilized lower cost offshore software competitors. Although we continue to license our current technology and products to certain OEMs, there can be no assurance that the OEMs will continue to need or utilize the products and technology we currently offer. We have a history of losses. Although we were profitable in fiscal years 2007 and 2006, we had been unprofitable in four of the previous five fiscal years. There is no assurance that we will continue to be profitable at any time in the future. -18- We may be unable to develop additional new and enhanced products that achieve market acceptance. Our future success also depends in part on our ability to address the rapidly changing needs of potential customers in the marketplace, to introduce high-quality, cost-effective products, product enhancements and services on a timely basis, and to keep pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards. Our failure to achieve our business plan to develop and to successfully introduce new products and product enhancements in our prime markets would materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. If we are not in compliance with our licensing agreements, we may lose our rights to sublicense technology; our competitors are aggressively pursuing the sale of licensed third party technology. We currently sublicense third party technologies to our OEM customers, which sublicenses accounted for $15.2 and $17.7 in licensing revenue in fiscal 2007 and 2006, respectively. Such sublicense agreements are non-exclusive. If Peerless is determined not to be in compliance with agreements between us and our licensors, we may forfeit our right to sublicense these technologies. Likewise, if such sublicense agreements expired, we would lose our right to sublicense the affected technologies. Additionally, the licensing of these technologies has become very competitive, with competitors possessing substantially greater financial and technical resources and market penetration than us. As competitors are pursuing aggressive strategies to obtain similar rights as held by us to sublicense these third party technologies, there is no assurance that we can remain competitive in the marketplace if one or more competitors are successful. See, “Risk Factors - We have negotiated with Adobe Systems Incorporated and Canon, Inc. to remedy a contract dispute, which, if not remedied, could result in the loss of the Adobe agreement and harm our business.” The industry for imaging systems for digital document products involves intense competition and rapid technological changes, and our business may suffer if our competitors develop superior technology. The market for imaging systems for digital document products is highly competitive and characterized by continuous pressure to enhance performance, to introduce new features and to accelerate the release of new products. We compete on the basis of technology expertise, product functionality, development time and price. Our technology and services primarily compete with solutions developed internally by OEMs. Virtually all of our OEM customers have significant investments in their existing solutions and have the substantial resources necessary to enhance existing products and to develop future products. These OEMs possess or may develop competing imaging systems technologies and may implement these systems into their products, thereby replacing our current or proposed technologies, eliminating a need for our services and products and limiting our future opportunities. Therefore, we must persuade these OEMs to outsource the development of their imaging systems to us and to provide products and solutions to these OEMs that cost-effectively compete with their internally developed products. We also compete with software and engineering services provided in the digital document product marketplace by other systems suppliers to OEMs. As the digital document printing industry continues to develop, competition and pricing pressures will increase from OEMs, existing competitors and other companies that may enter our existing or future markets with similar or substitute solutions that may be less costly or provide better performance or functionality. We anticipate increasing competition for our color products under development, particularly as new competitors develop and sell competing products. Some of our existing competitors, many of our potential competitors, and virtually all of our OEM customers have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and sales resources than we have. If price competition increases, competitive pressures could require us to reduce the amount of royalties received on new licenses and to reduce the cost of our engineering services in order to maintain existing business and generate additional product licensing revenues. This could reduce profit margins and result in losses and a decrease in market share. We cannot assure you that we have the ability to compete favorably with the internal development capabilities of our current and prospective OEM customers or with other third party digital imaging system suppliers and the failure to compete effectively would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. -19- If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property or face a claim of intellectual property infringement by a third party, we could lose our intellectual property rights or be liable for damages. Our success is heavily dependent upon our proprietary technology. To protect our proprietary rights, we rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, as well as the early implementation and enforcement of nondisclosure and other contractual restrictions. As part of our confidentiality procedures, we enter into written nondisclosure agreements with our employees, consultants, prospective customers, OEMs and strategic partners and take affirmative steps to limit access to and distribution of our software, intellectual property and other proprietary information. Despite these efforts, and in the event such agreements are not timely made, complied with or enforced, we may be unable to effectively protect our proprietary rights and the enforcement of our proprietary rights may be cost prohibitive. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain, distribute, or use our products or technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our products is difficult. We cannot be certain that the steps we take to prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect proprietary rights as fully as in the United States, will be effective. Our source code also is protected as a trade secret. However, from time to time we license our source code to OEMs, which subjects us to the risk of unauthorized use or misappropriation despite the contractual terms restricting disclosure, distribution, copying and use. In addition, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to obtain, distribute, copy or use our proprietary information or to reverse engineer our trade secrets. We hold patents issued in the United States, France, Germany, Great Britain, Japan, Taiwan and Hong Kong. The issued patents relate to techniques developed by us for generating output for continuous synchronous raster output devices, such as laser printers, compressing data for use with output devices, filtering techniques for use with output devices and communicating with peripheral devices over a network. We also have patent applications pending in the United States, the European Patent Office, Japan, Hong Kong, Taiwan, China, Australia, Korea, and India. There can be no assurance that patents we hold will not be challenged or invalidated, that patents will issue from any of our pending applications or that any claims allowed from existing or pending patents will be of sufficient scope or strength (or issue in the countries where products incorporating our technology may be sold) to provide meaningful protection or be of any commercial advantage to us. In any event, effective protection of intellectual property rights may be unavailable or limited in certain countries. The status of United States patent protection in the software industry will evolve as the United States Patent and Trademark Office grants additional patents. Patents have been granted to fundamental technologies in software after the development of an industry around such technologies and patents may be issued to third parties that relate to fundamental technologies related to our technology. As the number of patents, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights in our industry increases, products based on our technologies may become the subjects of infringement claims. There can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future. Any such claims, regardless of merit, could be time consuming, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel from productive tasks, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, we may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. Litigation to determine the validity of any claims, whether or not such litigation is determined in our favor, could result in significant expenses and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel from productive tasks. In addition, we may lack sufficient resources to initiate a meritorious claim. In the event of an adverse ruling in any litigation regarding intellectual property, we may be required to pay substantial damages, discontinue the use and sale of infringing products and expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or obtain licenses to infringing or substituted technology. Our failure to develop, or license on acceptable terms, a substitute technology, if required, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. -20- We currently face a potential claim of intellectual property infringement from Acacia Technologies Group, through one of our customers, and we may be liable for damages. Acacia Technologies Group ("Acacia") has recently made an allegation of patent infringement against one of our customers. Our customer has requested that we handle Acacia's claims as it believes that the allegedly infringing functionality is resident in third party software which we sublicensed to them for use in certain of its products. We are currently trying to determine if the allegedly infringing functionality is resident in the third party software, as alleged by our customer. We may be unable to resolve this allegation of patent infringement with our customer or Acacia, or obtain any indemnification from the third party software provider from whom we licensed the software. This allegation of patent infringement could be time consuming, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel from productive tasks, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. In the event of an adverse ruling affecting us, we may be required to pay substantial damages and/or discontinue the use of such infringing patents. Our failure to use such patents, if required, could have a material adverse effect on our licensing revenues and our operating results. Our international activities may expose us to risks associated with international business. We are substantially dependent on our international business activities. Risks inherent in these international business activities include: • major currency rate fluctuations; • changes in the economic condition of foreign countries; • the imposition of government controls; • tailoring of products to local requirements; • trade restrictions; • changes in tariffs and taxes; and • the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. If we are unable to adapt to international conditions, our business may be adversely affected. We rely on the services of our executive officers and other key personnel, whose knowledge of our business and industry would be extremely difficult to replace. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continuing contributions of our senior management. Management and other employees may voluntarily terminate their employment with us at any time upon short notice. The loss of key personnel could delay product development cycles or otherwise harm our business. We believe that our future success will also depend in large part on our ability to attract, integrate and retain highly-skilled engineering, managerial, sales and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting, integrating and retaining such personnel. Failure to attract, integrate and retain key personnel could harm our ability to carry out our business strategy and compete with other companies. Our stock price may experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. Our common stock has experienced price volatility. In the 60-day period ending February 28, 2007, the closing price of the stock ranged from $2.00 per share to $2.68 per share. For the period beginning February 1, 2006 and ending January 31, 2007 the stock as closed as low as $2.29 per share and as high as $9.91 per share. Such price volatility may occur in the future. Factors that could affect the trading price of our common stock include: -21- • macroeconomic conditions; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in quarterly results of operations; • announcements of new products or significant technological innovations by us or our competitors; • developments or disputes with respect to proprietary rights; • losses of major OEM customers; • general trends in the industry; • overall market conditions and other factors; and • change in executive management. In addition, the stock market historically has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have particularly affected the market price of securities of many related high technology companies and which at times have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. Our common stock was moved to the Nasdaq Capital Market and may not provide adequate liquidity. On July 30, 2004, we announced that our common stock had been transferred from the Nasdaq National Market to the Nasdaq Capital Market. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to maintain compliance with the continued listing standards of the Nasdaq Capital Market. For example, if the minimum bid price of our common stock falls below $1.00, and remains below $1.00 for thirty consecutive business days, we will not be in compliance with the Nasdaq Capital Market minimum bid requirements under Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(4). If we are not able to maintain compliance, our common stock may be subject to removal from listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market. Trading in our common stock after a delisting, if any, would likely be conducted in the over-the-counter markets in the so-called “pink sheets” or the National Association of Securities Dealers’ Electronic Bulletin Board and could also be subject to additional restrictions. As a consequence of a delisting, our stockholders would find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of, our common stock. In addition, a delisting would make our common stock substantially less attractive as collateral for margin and purpose loans, for investment by financial institutions under their internal policies or state legal investment laws or as consideration in future capital raising transactions. Failure to maintain our Nasdaq listing would adversely affect the trading price and liquidity of our common stock On December 27, 2006, the Company notified Nasdaq that, upon the effectiveness of the resignation of Thomas G. Rotherham from the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee on December 31, 2006, the Company would no longer be in compliance with Nasdaq Rule 4350(d)(2)(A), which requires each listed company to have an audit committee of at least three “independent” (as defined) members. On December 27, 2006, the Company received a letter from Nasdaq confirming that (i) the Company is not in compliance with Nasdaq’s audit committee composition requirement under Rule 4350(d)(2)(A), and (ii) Nasdaq will provide the Company a cure period in order to regain compliance as follows: · until the earlier of the Company’s next annual meeting of stockholders or December 27, 2007; or · if the next annual meeting of stockholders is held before June 25, 2007, then the Company must evidence compliance no later than June 25, 2007. The Company’s next annual meeting of stockholders is currently scheduled for June 11, 2007. If the annual meeting is held on that date, the Company must have appointed at least one additional independent director to the -22- Board of Directors and the Audit Committee to fill the vacancy caused by Mr. Rotherham’s resignation by the date of such meeting or face possible delisting from Nasdaq. If we were delisted from Nasdaq we may apply for listing on another exchange. However, there is no assurance that we will meet the requirements for initial listing or maintain compliance with the continued listing requirements of such an exchange. As a result of the delisting, trading in our common stock would continue to be conducted in the over-the counter market. As a result, an investor could find it more difficult to dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our common stock. Delisting from Nasdaq would adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and significantly limit the liquidity of our common stock. We, as a sublicensor of third party intellectual property, are subject to audits of our licensing fee costs. Certain of our licensing agreements include third party intellectual property and result in royalties contractually due and payable to the third parties. The language of the contract is subject to interpretation and may result in disputes. We are subject to audits of our data serving as the basis for the royalties due. Such audits may result in adjustments to the royalty amounts due. There was a material weakness in revenue recognition as of fiscal year end January 31, 2007, which was the result of an operational deficiency. Specifically, our controls were not adequate to capture and analyze all the various terms of software contracts to ensure proper application of generally accepted accounting principles in the United States as it relates to the recording of revenue and costs associated with these contracts. Under regulations required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX), an adverse opinion on internal controls over financial reporting will be issued by our independent registered public accounting firm, and this could have a negative impact on our stock price. Section 404 of SOX requires that we establish and maintain an adequate internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting and assess on an on-going basis the design and operating effectiveness of the internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. Our independent registered public accounting firm is required to attest and audit both the design and operating effectiveness of our internal controls and management’s assessment of the design and the effectiveness of our internal controls beginning with the fiscal year ending on January 31, 2007 because we will become an accelerated-filer as defined by the SEC rules on January 31, 2007. During management’s assessment of internal controls for fiscal year 2007, management determined that a material weakness existed with regard to the operation of our revenue recognition process. If we are not successful in the remediation of this material weakness, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation in future periods and could have a negative impact on our stock price. It is possible that other material weaknesses may be found in the future. Recent and proposed regulations related to equity incentives could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Since our inception, we have used stock options and other long-term equity incentives as a fundamental component of our employee retention packages. We believe that stock options and other long-term equity incentives directly motivate our employees to maximize long-term stockholder value and, through the use of vesting, encourage employees to remain with us. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has announced changes that we have implemented in the first quarter of fiscal 2007 quarter ending April 30, 2006 requiring us to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants and issuances of stock under employee stock purchase plans. This regulation negatively impacts our results of operations. In addition, new regulations implemented by the Nasdaq Capital Market requiring shareholder approval for all stock option plans could make it more difficult for us to grant options to employees in the future. To the extent that new regulations make it more difficult or expensive to grant options to employees, incur increased costs, change our equity incentive strategy or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, could materially and adversely affect our business. -23- Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None Item 