Item 1A. Risk Factors Our short and long term success is subject to many factors that are beyond our control. Stockholders and prospective stockholders in the Company should consider carefully the following risk factors, in addition to the information contained in this report. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements,” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21 of the Exchange Act, which are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth below. (See “Forward Looking Statements” above.) As a result of completing the asset sale with KMC, we may encounter difficulties in leveraging our remaining assets and continuing operations at a profitable level. Although we intend to continue operations as a provider of advanced imaging and networking technologies and components to the digital document market, our primary assets after consummating the transaction with KMC consist of licenses to use intellectual property owned by others. As a result, we may encounter unanticipated difficulties or challenges in continuing operations and our cash flows and revenues may be materially adversely impacted. If we are unable to address and overcome such difficulties or challenges, it may materially affect our cash flows and we may not be successful with our new business structure. We have certain indemnification obligations under the Asset Purchase Agreement with KMC that might result in us not receiving all of the proceeds of the asset sale. Under the Asset Purchase Agreement, the $37.0 million purchase price for is subject to a holdback amount of $4.0 million for our potential indemnification obligations under the agreement. If we are required to satisfy a claim for indemnification to KMC or certain of its affiliates as a result such obligations, we may not receive all of the proceeds from the asset sale. The failure of any bank in which we deposit funds could significantly reduce the amount of cash we have available for our corporate and business purposes. We maintain a portfolio of cash equivalents in various money market funds. Although we have diversified our holdings in several banking institutions, our money market funds may be uninsured and therefore subject to loss or total forfeiture. Banking institutions are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which have been exacerbated by the current financial and credit crisis and bankruptcies which have affected various sectors of the financial markets and led to global credit and liquidity issues. If any of the banking institutions in which we have deposited funds ultimately fails or freezes redemptions of money market accounts, we may lose part or all of our money market investments. The loss of part or all of our money market investments could significantly reduce the amount of cash we have available for our corporate and business purposes, which would materially and adversely affect our operations. Our current growth strategy depends in part on our ability to successfully invest in and/or acquire the assets or businesses of other companies. Our failure to complete transactions that accomplish these objectives could reduce our earnings and slow our growth. We anticipate investing in and/or acquiring the assets or businesses of other companies as part of our current growth strategy. Potential risks involved in such transactions include lack of necessary capital, the inability to satisfy closing conditions, failure to identify suitable business entities for acquisition, the inability to successfully integrate such businesses into our operations, and the inability to make acquisitions on terms that we consider economically acceptable. To successfully integrate any acquisition, we would need to invest in operational, financial and management information systems and to attract, retain, motivate and effectively manage our employees. The inability to effectively manage the integration of acquisitions could reduce our focus on subsequent acquisitions and current operations, which, in turn, could negatively impact our earnings and growth. In addition, even if we do invest in or acquire other companies, there is no guarantee that such transactions will be successful in producing revenue or profits. 7 We may be subject to further government regulation, including the Investment Company Act of 1940, which could adversely affect our operations. Although we are subject to the reporting requirements under the Exchange Act, management does not believe that we are subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Company Act”) at this point in time. If we are required to register as an investment company in the future we could incur significant registration and compliance costs. To date, we have not obtained a determination from the SEC as to our status under the Investment Company Act. In the future, the SEC could determine us to be an unregistered investment company, which could subject us to significantly heightened regulatory requirements that would likely, in the aggregate, have material adverse consequences on our business. The Adobe License Agreement is to expire on March 31, 2010, and we are uncertain if this agreement will be renewed. We have a licensing agreement with Adobe Systems Incorporated to bundle and sublicense its licensed products with our licensed software. The term of the Adobe Agreement is set to expire on March 31, 2010 and we are uncertain if this agreement will be renewed. If we fail to replace the revenue derived from the Adobe License Agreement our operating results will be materially adversely impacted. See “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 13. Risks and Uncertainties – Concentration of Credit Risk.” We receive a substantial portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers and any adverse change in our relationships with those customers will materially harm our business. A limited number of OEM customers continue to provide a substantial portion of our revenues. Presently, there are only a small number of OEM customers in the digital document product market to which we can market our technology and services. Therefore, our ability to offset a significant decrease in the revenues from a particular customer or to replace a lost customer is severely limited. During fiscal year 2009, four customers, Konica Minolta, KMC, Novell and Seiko Epson each generated greater than 10% of our revenues, and collectively contributed 87% of revenues for the year. Block licenses for the same time period were 45% of the Company’s revenue. Along with our OEM customers and third party technology suppliers, we face increasingly intense competition within our industry, which is applying significant downward pricing pressure on products and services. As a result, our OEM customers and third party technology suppliers continue to seek lower cost alternatives for their engineering needs. Some of our OEM customers and third party technology suppliers, including Adobe, have developed extensive offshore operations in countries such as India, that are capable of delivering lower cost solutions than we are able to deliver as of today. The ability of our OEM customers and third party technology suppliers to provide the same services at a lower cost may result in them no longer needing our services, as well as being in direct competition with us by providing the same services at a lower cost to our other customers. This may result in us losing some of our customers and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and future cash flows. See “Financial Statements – Note 13 Risks and Uncertainties.” 8 We are involved in a contract dispute, which, if not remedied, could result in the loss of the Adobe agreement and could harm our business. We are party to a PostScript sublicense with Canon Inc., effective as of April 1, 2001. The sublicense did not include several terms required to be included in all OEM sublicenses by our license with Adobe. Although Adobe has indicated to us that it has no current intention to pursue claims for alleged breach of the Adobe Peerless PostScript Sublicensing Agreement, Adobe has not agreed to waive the requirement that the missing terms be included in the Canon sublicense. To date, we have been unable to amend the Canon sublicense in a manner acceptable to both Canon and Adobe. Furthermore, there is no assurance that we will be able to resolve the issues in a manner acceptable to both Adobe and Canon. Thus, Adobe may exercise its right to terminate its license agreement with us and take other legal action against us, if it so chooses. Termination of the Adobe agreement would have a material adverse effect on our future operating results. Approximately 54% of our revenues for the twelve months ended January 31, 2009 were derived from our licensing arrangement with Adobe. If we are not in compliance with our license agreements, we may lose our rights to sublicense technology; our competitors are aggressively pursuing the sale of licensed third party technology. We currently sublicense third party technologies to our OEM customers, which sublicenses accounted for $7.9 million and $12.2 million in revenue in fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively. Such sublicense agreements are non-exclusive. If we are determined not to be in compliance with the agreements between us and our licensors, we may forfeit our right to sublicense these technologies. Likewise, if such sublicense agreements expire, we would lose our right to sublicense the affected technologies. Additionally, the licensing of these technologies has become very competitive, with competitors possessing substantially greater financial and technical resources and market penetration than us. As competitors are pursuing aggressive strategies to obtain similar rights as held by us to sublicense these third party technologies, there is no assurance that we can remain competitive in the marketplace if one or more competitors are successful in this strategy. Our licensing revenue is subject to significant fluctuations which may materially and adversely affect our operating results. Our recurring licensing revenue model has shifted from per-unit royalties paid upon OEM shipment of our product and guaranteed quarterly minimum royalties to a model that results in revenues associated with the sale of block and perpetual licenses. The reliance on block licenses has occurred due to aging OEM products in the marketplace, OEM demands in negotiating licensing agreements, reductions in the number of OEM products shipping and a product mix that changed from object code licensing arrangements to SDKs. Revenues may continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter as the number of opportunities vary, if the signing of block licenses are delayed or the licensing opportunities are lost to competitors. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The future demand for our products is uncertain. Our licensing arrangements with our customers are based on the number of products including our technology shipped by these customers and the life cycles of these products. Because we generate a large percentage of our revenues from a small number of customers and a few products, any loss of these customers or products would have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. There has been a general decline in the rates of growth for the monochrome work group printer and MFP market segments in which we are engaged. For those product platforms that do utilize the software we license, the competition has increased and we have experienced significant downward price pressure. As a result of this, OEM demand for our solutions has declined. This decline occurred in some cases because the OEMs perceived that our solutions did not meet their technical requirements. In other cases it occurred because the OEMs either developed the technology themselves or utilized lower cost offshore software competitors. Although we continue to license our current technology and products to certain OEMs, there can be no assurance that the OEMs will continue to need or utilize the products and technology we currently offer. 9 The industry for imaging systems for digital document products involves intense competition and rapid technological changes, and our business may suffer if our competitors develop superior technology. We anticipate increasing competition for our color products, particularly as new competitors develop and sell competing products. Some of our existing competitors, many of our potential competitors, and virtually all of our OEM customers have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and sales resources than we have. Furthermore, we are not investing in technology to update our products. If price competition increases, competitive pressures could require us to reduce the amount of royalties received on new licenses and to reduce the cost of our engineering services in order to maintain existing business and generate additional product licensing revenues. This reduction could decrease profit margins and result in losses and a decrease in market share. We cannot guarantee that we have the ability to compete favorably with the internal development capabilities of our current and prospective OEM customers or with other third party digital imaging system suppliers and the failure to compete effectively would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. If we fail to adequately protect intellectual property or face a claim of intellectual property infringement by a third party, we could lose our intellectual property rights or be liable for damages. We protect our proprietary rights in a number of ways, including, but not limited to, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, early implementation and enforcement of nondisclosure and other contractual restrictions. As part of the transaction with KMC, we sold substantially all of our intellectual property, including all of our patents to KMC and executed a license agreement pursuant to which KMC licensed the IP back to us on a nonexclusive, worldwide, perpetual and royalty free basis subject to certain restrictions. Excluded from the IP that was sold to KMC was all of our customized intellectual property that had been previously integrated into products or services licensed or otherwise provided by us to third parties or specifically created for customers of ours after December 7, 2007 other than KMC and, which, in either case, had not also been provided to or integrated into products or services licensed to KMC, or developed pursuant to or in connection with certain agreements with KMC. As part of our confidentiality procedures, we enter into written nondisclosure agreements with our employees, consultants, prospective customers, OEMs and strategic partners and take further affirmative steps to limit access to and distribution of our software, intellectual property and other proprietary information. Despite these efforts and in the event such agreements are not timely made, complied with or enforced, we may be unable to protect our proprietary rights. In any event, enforcement of our proprietary rights may be very expensive. Our source code also is protected as a trade secret. However, from time to time, we license our source code to OEMs pursuant to protective agreements, which subjects us to the risk of unauthorized use or misappropriation despite the contractual terms restricting disclosure, distribution, copying and use. In addition, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to obtain, distribute, copy or use our proprietary information, or to reverse engineer our trade secrets. 10 As the number of patents, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights in our industry increases, products using our technologies increasingly may become the subject of infringement claims. There can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future. Any such claims, regardless of merit, could be time consuming, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel from productive tasks, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, we may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. Litigation to determine the validity of any claims, whether or not such litigation is determined in favor of us, could result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel from productive tasks. We may lack sufficient resources to initiate a meritorious claim. In the event of an adverse ruling in any litigation regarding intellectual property, we may be required to pay substantial damages, discontinue the use and sale of infringing products, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, or obtain licenses to infringing or substituted technology. Our failure to develop or license on acceptable terms a substitute technology, if required, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We rely on the services of our executive officers, whose knowledge of our business and industry would be extremely difficult to replace. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continuing contributions of our management. Management may voluntarily terminate their employment with us at any time upon short notice. The loss of key personnel could harm our business. Failure to retain key personnel could harm our ability to carry out our business strategy and compete with other companies. Our international activities may expose us to risks associated with international business. We are substantially dependent on our international business activities. Risks inherent in these international business activities include: • changes in the economic condition of foreign countries; • the imposition of government controls; • tailoring of products to local requirements; • trade restrictions; • changes in tariffs and taxes; • the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations; and • major currency rate fluctuations, which may affect demand for our products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. If we are unable to adapt to international conditions, our business may be adversely affected. 11 Failure to maintain our Nasdaq listing would adversely affect the trading price and liquidity of our common stock. If we are not able to maintain compliance with Nasdaq’s listing requirements, our common stock may be subject to removal from listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market. Trading in our common stock after a delisting, if any, would likely be conducted in the over-the-counter markets in the so-called “pink sheets” or the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board and could also be subject to additional restrictions. As a consequence of a delisting, our stockholders would find it more difficult to dispose, or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value, of our common stock. In addition, a delisting would make our common stock substantially less attractive as collateral for margin and purpose loans, for investment by financial institutions under their internal policies or state legal investment laws or as consideration in future capital raising transactions. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting or discover material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or financial reporting practices, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or detect fraud, which could harm our business and the trading price of our stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important in our effort to prevent financial fraud. We are required to periodically evaluate the effectiveness of the design and operation of our internal controls. These evaluations may result in the conclusion that enhancements, modifications or changes to our internal controls are necessary or desirable. As we previously noted in connection with the material weakness that we disclosed as of July 31, 2008, which was remedied, while management evaluates the effectiveness of our internal controls on a regular basis, we cannot provide absolute assurance that these controls will always be effective or any assurance that the controls, accounting processes, procedures and underlying assumptions will not be subject to revision. There are also inherent limitations on the effectiveness of internal controls and financial reporting practices, including collusion, management override, and failure of human judgment. Because of this, control procedures and financial reporting practices are designed to reduce rather than eliminate business risks. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting or if management or our independent registered public accounting firm were to discover material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting (or if our system of controls and audits results in a change of practices or new information or conclusions about our financial reporting), we may be unable to produce reliable financial reports or prevent fraud and it could harm our financial condition and results of operations and result in loss of investor confidence and a decline in our stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 