Item 1A. Risk Factors Our future performance is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties. Although the risks described below are the risks that we believe are material, there may also be risks of which we are currently unaware, or that we currently regard as immaterial based upon the information available to us that later may prove to be material. Interested parties should be aware that the occurrence of the events described in these risk factors, elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Actual results, therefore, may materially differ from anticipated results described in these forward-looking statements. Current economic conditions may adversely impact demand for our products, reduce access to credit and cause our customers and others with which we do business to suffer financial hardship, all of which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Worldwide economic conditions have deteriorated significantly in many countries and regions, including the United States, and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. Although demand for many of our products is non-discretionary in nature and tend to be purchased by consumers out of necessity, rather than on an impulse basis, our sales are impacted by constraints on discretionary spending by our customers. Discretionary spending is affected by many factors, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, inflation, consumer debt levels, the availability of consumer credit, currency exchange rates, taxation, fuel prices, unemployment trends and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. Many of these factors are outside of our control. Our customers’ purchases, including purchases of our products, could decline during periods when disposable income is lower, when prices increase in response to rising costs, or in periods of actual or perceived unfavorable economic conditions. If any of these events occur, or if unfavorable economic conditions continue to challenge the consumer environment, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. In addition, economic conditions, including decreased access to credit, may result in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our customers, suppliers, logistics and other service providers and financial institutions which are counterparties to our credit facilities and interest rate swap transactions. In addition, the ability of these third parties to overcome these difficulties may increase. If third parties, on which we rely for merchandise, are unable to overcome difficulties resulting from the deterioration in economic conditions and provide us with the merchandise we need, or if counterparties to our credit facilities or interest rate swap transactions do not perform their obligations, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. The integration of the operations of CSK involves risks, and the failure to integrate the operations successfully or in the expected time frame may adversely affect the future results of the combined company. The failure of the Company to meet the challenges involved in integrating the operations of CSK successfully or to otherwise realize any of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition could seriously harm our results of operations. Our ability to realize the benefits of the acquisition will depend, in part, on the timely integration of organizations, operations, procedures, policies and technologies, as well as the successful adoption of the O’Reilly culture and the retention of key personnel. The integration of CSK will be a complex, time-consuming and expensive process that, even with proper planning and implementation, could significantly disrupt the Company’s business. The challenges involved in this integration include the following: • implementing O’Reilly distribution, point of sale and inventory management systems; • combining respective product offerings; • preserving customer, supplier and other important relationships of both O’Reilly and CSK and resolving potential conflicts that may arise; • minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns; • contingencies that may arise of which we were not aware or of which we underestimated the significance; • addressing differences in the business cultures of O’Reilly and CSK to maintain employee morale and retain key employees; and • coordinating and combining geographically diverse operations, relationships and facilities which may be subject to additional constraints imposed by distance and local laws and regulations. We may not successfully integrate the operations of CSK in a timely manner, or not at all, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits or synergies of the merger to the extent, or in the time frame, anticipated. The anticipated benefits and synergies are based on projections and assumptions, not actual experience, and assume a successful integration. In addition to the integration risks discussed above, our ability to realize these benefits and synergies could be adversely affected by practical or legal constraints on our ability to combine operations. If we fail to manage the integration of these businesses effectively, our growth strategy and future profitability could be negatively affected, and we may fail to achieve the intended benefits of the merger. 14 Table of Contents Our increased debt levels could adversely affect our cash flow and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. In conjunction with the acquisition of CSK, we entered into a new credit facility, which significantly increased our outstanding indebtedness and debt service requirements. Our substantial debt could have important consequences, such as: • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations and other capital resources to principal and interest, thereby reducing our ability to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other cash requirements; • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes and opportunities in our industry, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; • limiting our ability to incur additional debt on acceptable terms, if at all; and • exposing us to fluctuations in interest rates. In addition, the terms of the financing obligations include restrictions, such as affirmative and negative covenants, conditions on borrowing, subsidiary guarantees and asset and stock pledges. A failure to comply with these restrictions could result in a default under the financing obligations or could require us to obtain waivers from our lenders for failure to comply with these restrictions. The occurrence of a default that remains uncured or the inability to secure a necessary consent or waiver could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks associated with future acquisitions may not lead to expected growth and could result in increased costs and inefficiencies. We expect to continue to make acquisitions as an element of our growth strategy. Acquisitions involve certain risks that could cause our actual growth and profitability to differ from our expectations, examples of such risks include the following: • we may not be able to continue to identify suitable acquisition targets or to acquire additional companies at favorable prices or on other favorable terms; • our management’s attention may be distracted; • we may fail to retain key personnel from acquired businesses; • we may assume unanticipated legal liabilities and other problems; • we may not be able to successfully integrate the operations (accounting and billing functions, for example) of businesses we acquire to realize economic, operational and other benefits; and • we may fail or be unable to discover liabilities of businesses that we acquire for which we, as a successor owner or operator, may be liable. The automotive aftermarket business is highly competitive, and we may have to risk our capital to remain competitive. Both the DIY and professional installer portions of our business are highly competitive, particularly in the more densely populated areas that we serve. Some of our competitors are larger than we are and have greater financial resources. In addition, some of our competitors are smaller than we are overall, but have a greater presence than we do in a particular market. We may have to expend more resources and risk additional capital to remain competitive. For a list of our principal competitors, see the “Competition” section of Item 1 of this annual report on Form 10-K. In order to be successful, we will need to retain and motivate key employees, which may be more difficult in light of uncertainty created by the acquisition of CSK, and failure to do so could seriously harm the Company. In order to be successful, we will need to retain and motivate executives and other key employees. Experienced management and technical personnel are in high demand and competition for their talents is intense. Employee retention may be a particularly challenging issue in connection with the integration of the acquired CSK operations. We also must continue to motivate employees and keep them focused on our strategies and goals, which may be particularly difficult due to the potential distractions of the merger. We cannot assure future growth will be achieved. We believe that our ability to open additional, profitable stores at a high growth rate will be a significant factor in achieving our growth objectives for the future. Our ability to accomplish our growth objectives is dependent, in part, on matters beyond our control, such as weather conditions, zoning and other issues related to new store site development, the availability of qualified management personnel and general business and economic conditions. We cannot be sure that our growth plans for 2010 and beyond will be achieved. Failure to achieve our growth objectives may negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. For a discussion of our growth strategies, see the “Growth Strategy” section of Item 1 of this annual report on Form 10-K. 15 Table of Contents We are sensitive to regional economic and weather conditions that could reduce our costs and sales. Approximately 30% of our stores are located in Texas and California. Therefore, our business is sensitive to the economic and weather conditions of those regions. Unusually inclement weather, such as significant rain, snow, sleet, freezing rain, flooding, seismic activity and hurricanes, has historically discouraged our customers from visiting our stores during the affected period and reduced our sales, particularly to DIY customers. In addition, our stores located in these coastal regions may be subject to increased insurance claims resulting from regional weather conditions and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Legal proceedings and related matters arising from CSK could adversely affect us. As discussed in Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” and Note 14 “Legal Matters” of the consolidated financial statements, several of CSK’s former officers and employees have been charged by the Department of Justice (“DOJ”) and named in civil actions by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). O’Reilly has resolved CSK’s pre-acquisition issues with the SEC, but as set forth in Item 3 and Note 14 “Legal Matters”, the DOJ investigation continues and could result in criminal charges being filed against CSK. We are involved in working toward resolution of these matters. Under Delaware law, the charter documents of the CSK entities and certain indemnification agreements, CSK has certain obligations to indemnify these persons and O’Reilly is currently incurring legal fees on the behalf of these persons in relation to pending matters. There can be no assurance that the expenses incurred in connection with the resolution of these matters will be covered by CSK’s directors’ and officers’ insurance policies. If we incur significant uninsured expenses in connection with the resolution of the matters described above, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Sales of shares of our common stock eligible for future sale could adversely affect our share price. All of the shares of common stock currently held by our affiliates may be sold in reliance upon the exemptive provisions of Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, subject to certain volume and other conditions imposed by such rule. We cannot predict the effect, if any, which future sales of shares of common stock or the availability of such shares for sale will have on the market price of the common stock prevailing from time to time. We believe sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such sales might occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of the common stock. Risks related to the Company and unanticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could affect the Company’s stock price. We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful indicators of the future operating results of the Company and should not be relied on as an indication of future performance. If our quarterly operating results fail to meet the expectations of analysts, the trading price of our common stock could be negatively affected. We cannot be certain that our business strategy and our plans to integrate the operations of CSK will be successful or that they will successfully meet the expectations of these analysts. If we fail to adequately address any of these risks or difficulties, our business would likely suffer. The market price of our common stock may be volatile and could expose us to securities class action litigation. The stock market and the price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations based upon general economic and market conditions. The market price for our common stock may also be affected by our ability to meet analysts’ expectations. Failure to meet such expectations, even slightly, could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, stock market volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Downturns in the stock market may cause the price of our common stock to decline. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against such companies. If similar litigation were instituted against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could have an adverse effect on our business. A change in the relationship with any of our key vendors or the unavailability of our key products at competitive prices could affect our financial health. Our business depends on developing and maintaining close relationships with our vendors and on our vendors’ ability or willingness to sell quality products to us at favorable prices and terms. Many factors outside of our control may harm these relationships and the ability or willingness of these vendors to sell us products on favorable terms. For example, financial or operational difficulties that some of our vendors may face could increase the cost of the products we purchase from them or our ability to source product from them. In addition, the trend towards consolidation among automotive parts suppliers as well as the off-shoring of manufacturing capacity to foreign countries may disrupt or end our relationship with some vendors, and could lead to less competition and result in higher prices. We could also be negatively impacted by suppliers who might experience work stoppages, labor strikes or other interruptions to or difficulties in the manufacture or supply of the products we purchase from them. 16 Table of Contents Complications in our distribution centers and other factors affecting the distribution of merchandise may affect our business. We operate 21 distribution centers nationwide to support our business. If complications arise with any facility or if any facility is severely damaged or destroyed, our other distribution centers may not be able to support the resulting additional distribution demands. This may adversely affect our ability to deliver inventory on a nightly basis and therefore affect our ability to timely provide products to our customers resulting in lost sales. Such a disruption in revenue could potentially have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Environmental legislation and regulations could affect our operations, such as by increasing fuel prices, and therefore increase our operating costs. Initiatives to limit greenhouse gas emissions and bills related to climate change have been introduced in the U.S. Congress, which could adversely impact all industries. While it is uncertain whether these will become law, additional climate change related mandates could potentially be forthcoming, and these mandates, if enacted, could adversely impact our costs, including, among other things, increasing fuel prices. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 17 Table of Contents 