Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In the Risk Factors below, we refer to the Company as “we,” “us,” or “our”. Investing in our securities involves certain risks. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition and could result in a loss of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital. The capital and credit markets have experienced varying degrees of volatility and disruption. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, interest on our debt and dividends on our capital stock and to replace certain maturing liabilities. Without sufficient liquidity, we will be forced to curtail our operations, and our business will suffer. The principal sources of our liquidity are reinsurance premiums under reinsurance treaties and cash flow from our investment portfolio and other assets. Sources of liquidity in normal markets also include proceeds from the issuance of a variety of short- and long-term instruments, including medium- and long-term debt, junior subordinated debt securities, capital securities and common stock. In the event current resources do not satisfy our needs, we may have to seek additional financing. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects if we incur large investment losses or if the level of our business activity decreased due to a market downturn. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. Our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business, most significantly our reinsurance operations. Such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities; satisfy statutory capital requirements; generate fee income and market-related revenue to meet liquidity needs; and access the capital necessary to grow our business. As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue shorter tenor securities than we prefer, or bear an unattractive cost of capital which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. At various points during the past twelve months, our credit spreads widened considerably. Further, our ability to finance our statutory reserve requirements is limited in the current marketplace. If capacity continues to be limited for a prolonged period of time, our ability to obtain new funding for such purposes may be hindered and, as a result, it may limit or adversely affect our ability to write additional business in a cost- 16 Table of Contents effective manner. Our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and statutory capital position could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets. Difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally, both in the United States and elsewhere around the world. Fixed income markets experienced a period of extreme volatility, which negatively affected market liquidity conditions. Fixed income instruments experienced decreased liquidity, increased price volatility, credit downgrade events, and increased probability of default. Many fixed income securities became less liquid and more difficult to value and sell. Domestic and international equity markets also experienced heightened volatility and turmoil, with issuers (such as us) that have exposure to the mortgage and credit markets particularly affected. These events and the continuing market upheavals may have an adverse effect on us, in part because we have a large investment portfolio and are also dependent upon customer behavior. Our revenues may decline in such circumstances and our profit margins may erode. In addition, in the event of extreme prolonged market events, such as the global credit crisis, we could incur significant investment-related losses. Even in the absence of a market downturn, we are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market volatility. The liquidity and value of some of our investments has significantly diminished as volatility has increased. We hold certain investments that may lack liquidity, such as privately placed fixed maturity securities; mortgage loans; policy loans; and equity real estate. Even some of our very high quality assets have been more illiquid as a result of the recent challenging market conditions. If we require significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess of normal cash requirements or are required to post or return collateral in connection with our investment portfolio, derivatives transactions or securities lending activities, we may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner, be forced to sell them for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize, or both. The impairment of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, insurance companies, commercial banks, investment banks, investment funds and other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty. In addition, with respect to secured and other transactions that provide for us to hold collateral posted by the counterparty, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral we hold cannot be liquidated at prices sufficient to recover the full amount of our exposure. We also have exposure to these financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt instruments, derivative transactions and equity investments. There can be no assurance that any such losses or impairments to the carrying value of these assets would not materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our requirements to post collateral or make payments related to declines in market value of specified assets may expose us to counterparty risk and adversely affect our liquidity. Some of our transactions with financial and other institutions specify the circumstances under which the parties are required to post collateral. The amount of collateral we may be required to post under these agreements may increase under certain circumstances, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, under the terms of some of our transactions we may be required to make payment to our counterparties related to any decline in the market value of the specified assets. Defaults on our mortgage loans and volatility in performance may adversely affect our profitability. Our mortgage loans face default risk and are principally collateralized by commercial properties. Mortgage loans are stated on our balance sheet at unpaid principal balance, adjusted for any unamortized premium or discount, deferred fees or expenses, and are net of valuation allowances. We establish valuation allowances for estimated impairments as of the balance sheet date. Such valuation allowances are based on the excess carrying value of the loan over the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan’s original effective interest rate, the value of the loan’s collateral if the loan is in the process of foreclosure or otherwise collateral dependent, or the loan’s market value if the loan is being sold. At December 31, 2009, we had valuation allowances of $5.8 million related to our mortgage loans. The performance of our mortgage loan investments, however, may fluctuate in the future. An increase in the default rate of our mortgage loan investments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents Further, any geographic or sector concentration of our mortgage loans may have adverse effects on our investment portfolios and consequently on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. While we seek to mitigate this risk by having a broadly diversified portfolio, events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular geographic region or sector may have a greater adverse effect on the investment portfolios to the extent that the portfolios are concentrated. Moreover, our ability to sell assets relating to such particular groups of related assets may be limited if other market participants are seeking to sell at the same time. Our investments are reflected within the consolidated financial statements utilizing different accounting bases and accordingly we may not have recognized differences, which may be significant, between cost and fair value in our consolidated financial statements. Our principal investments are in fixed maturity and equity securities, short-term investments, mortgage loans, policy loans, funds withheld at interest and other invested assets. The carrying value of such investments is as follows: • Fixed maturity and equity securities are classified as available-for-sale and are reported at their estimated fair value. Unrealized investment gains and losses on these securities are recorded as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, net of related deferred acquisition costs and deferred income taxes. • Short-term investments include investments with remaining maturities of one year or less, but greater than three months, at the time of acquisition and are stated at amortized cost, which approximates fair value. • Mortgage and policy loans are stated at unpaid principal balance. Additionally, mortgage loans are adjusted for any unamortized premium or discount, deferred fees or expenses, net of valuation allowances. • Funds withheld at interest represent amounts contractually withheld by ceding companies in accordance with reinsurance agreements. The value of the assets withheld and interest income are recorded in accordance with specific treaty terms. • We primarily use the cost method of accounting for investments in real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership interests since we have a minor equity investment and virtually no influence over the joint ventures or the partnership’s operations. These investments are reflected in other invested assets on the balance sheet. Investments not carried at fair value in our consolidated financial statements — principally, mortgage loans, policy loans, real estate joint ventures, and other limited partnerships — may have fair values which are substantially higher or lower than the carrying value reflected in our consolidated financial statements. Each of such asset classes is regularly evaluated for impairment under the accounting guidance appropriate to the respective asset class. Our valuation of fixed maturity and equity securities and derivatives include methodologies, estimations and assumptions which are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Fixed maturity, equity securities and short-term investments which are reported at fair value on the consolidated balance sheet represent the majority of our total cash and invested assets. We have categorized these securities into a three-level hierarchy, based on the priority of the inputs to the respective valuation technique. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3). An asset or liability’s classification within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of significant input to its valuation. For example, a Level 3 fair value measurement may include inputs that are observable (Levels 1 and 2) and unobservable (Level 3). Therefore, gains and losses for such assets and liabilities categorized within Level 3 may include changes in fair value that are attributable to both observable market inputs (Levels 1 and 2) and unobservable market inputs (Level 3). The determination of fair values in the absence of quoted market prices is based on: (i) valuation methodologies; (ii) securities we deem to be comparable; and (iii) assumptions deemed appropriate given the circumstances. The fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time, based on available market information and judgments about financial instruments, including estimates of the timing and amounts of expected future cash flows and the credit standing of the issuer or counterparty. Factors considered in estimating fair value include: coupon rate, maturity, estimated duration, call provisions, sinking fund requirements, credit rating, industry sector of the issuer, and quoted market prices of comparable securities. The use of different methodologies and assumptions may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts. During periods of market disruption including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities, for example alternative residential mortgage 18 Table of Contents loan (“Alt-A”) securities and sub-prime mortgage-backed securities, if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the current financial environment. In such cases, more securities may fall to Level 3 and thus require more subjectivity and management judgment. As such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation as well as valuation methods which are more sophisticated or require greater estimation thereby resulting in values which may be less than the value at which the investments may be ultimately sold. Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported within our consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. The reported value of our relatively illiquid types of investments, our investments in the asset classes described in the paragraph above and, at times, our high quality, generally liquid asset classes, do not necessarily reflect the lowest current market price for the asset. If we were forced to sell certain of our assets in the current market, there can be no assurance that we will be able to sell them for the prices at which we have recorded them and we may be forced to sell them at significantly lower prices. The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments taken on our investments is highly subjective and could materially impact our results of operations or financial position. The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments vary by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. Management updates its evaluations regularly and reflects changes in allowances and impairments in operations as such evaluations are revised. There can be no assurance that our management has accurately assessed the level of impairments taken, allowances reflected in our financial statements and potential impact on regulatory capital. Furthermore, additional impairments may need to be taken or allowances provided for in the future. Historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments or allowances. For example, the cost of our fixed maturity and equity securities is adjusted for impairments in value deemed to be other-than-temporary in the period in which the determination is made. The assessment of whether impairments have occurred is based on management’s case-by-case evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in fair value. Our management considers a wide range of factors about the security issuer and uses their best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in assessing the prospects for near-term recovery. Inherent in management’s evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential. Considerations in the impairment evaluation process include, but are not limited to: • the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been below cost or amortized cost; • the potential for impairments of securities when the issuer is experiencing significant financial difficulties; • the potential for impairments in an entire industry sector or sub-sector; • the potential for impairments in certain economically depressed geographic locations; • the potential for impairments of securities where the issuer, series of issuers or industry has suffered a catastrophic type of loss or has exhausted natural resources; • for fixed maturity securities, whether or not we have the intent to sell, or more likely than not, would be required to sell the security before the recovery of its value to an amount equal to or greater than cost or amortized cost; • for equity securities, our ability and intent to hold the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for the recovery of its value to an almost equal to or greater than cost or amortized cost; • unfavorable changes in forecasted cash flows on mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities; and • other subjective factors, including concentrations and information obtained from regulators and rating agencies. Defaults, downgrades or other events impairing the value of our fixed maturity securities portfolio may reduce our earnings. We are subject to the risk that the issuers, or guarantors, of fixed maturity securities we own may default on principal and interest payments they owe us. At December 31, 2009, the fixed maturity securities of $11.8 billion in our investment portfolio represented 59.6% of our total cash and invested assets. The occurrence of a major economic downturn (such as the current downturn in the economy), acts of corporate malfeasance, widening risk spreads, or other events that adversely affect the issuers or guarantors of these securities could cause the value of our fixed maturity securities portfolio and our net income to decline and the default rate of the fixed maturity securities in our investment portfolio to increase. A ratings downgrade affecting issuers or guarantors of particular securities, or similar trends that could worsen the credit quality 19 Table of Contents of issuers, such as the corporate issuers of securities in our investment portfolio, could also have a similar effect. With economic uncertainty, credit quality of issuers or guarantors could be adversely affected. Any event reducing the value of these securities other than on a temporary basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. A downgrade in our ratings or in the ratings of our reinsurance subsidiaries could adversely affect our ability to compete. Ratings are an important factor in our competitive position. Rating organizations periodically review the financial performance and condition of insurers, including our reinsurance subsidiaries. These ratings are based on an insurance company’s ability to pay its obligations and are not directed toward the protection of investors. Rating organizations assign ratings based upon several factors. While most of the factors considered relate to the rated company, some of the factors relate to general economic conditions and circumstances outside the rated company’s control. The various rating agencies periodically review and evaluate our capital adequacy in accordance with their established guidelines and capital models. In order to maintain our existing ratings, we may commit from time to time to manage our capital at levels commensurate with such guidelines and models. If our capital levels are insufficient to fulfill any such commitments, we could be required to reduce our risk profile by, for example, retroceding some of our business or by raising additional capital by issuing debt, hybrid, or equity securities. Any such actions could have a material adverse impact on our earnings or materially dilute our shareholders’ equity ownership interests. Any downgrade in the ratings of our reinsurance subsidiaries could adversely affect their ability to sell products, retain existing business, and compete for attractive acquisition opportunities. Ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization. A rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. We believe that the rating agencies consider the ratings of a parent company when assigning a rating to a subsidiary of that company. The ability of our subsidiaries to write reinsurance partially depends on their financial condition and is influenced by their ratings. In addition, a significant downgrade in the rating or outlook of RGA, among other factors, could adversely affect our ability to raise and then contribute capital to our subsidiaries for the purpose of facilitating their operations and growth. A significant downgrade could increase our own cost of capital. For example, the facility fee and interest rate for our credit facilities are based on our senior long-term debt ratings. A decrease in those ratings could result in an increase in costs for the credit facilities. Also, if there is a downgrade in the rating of RGA, some of our reinsurance contracts would require us to post collateral to secure our obligations under these reinsurance contracts. Accordingly, we believe a ratings downgrade of RGA, or of our affiliates, could have a negative effect on our ability to conduct business. We cannot assure you that actions taken by our ratings agencies would not result in a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, it is unclear what effect, if any, a ratings change would have on the price of our securities in the secondary market. We make assumptions when pricing our products relating to mortality, morbidity, lapsation and expenses, and significant deviations in experience could negatively affect our financial results. Our reinsurance contracts expose us to mortality risk, which is the risk that the level of death claims may differ from that which we assumed in pricing our life, critical illness and annuity reinsurance contracts. Some of our reinsurance contracts expose us to morbidity risk, which is the risk that an insured person will become critically ill or disabled. Our risk analysis and underwriting processes are designed with the objective of controlling the quality of the business and establishing appropriate pricing for the risks we assume. Among other things, these processes rely heavily on our underwriting, our analysis of mortality and morbidity trends, lapse rates, expenses and our understanding of medical impairments and their effect on mortality or morbidity. We expect mortality, morbidity and lapse experience to fluctuate somewhat from period to period, but believe they should remain fairly constant over the long term. Mortality, morbidity or lapse experience that is less favorable than the mortality, morbidity or lapse rates that we used in pricing a reinsurance agreement will negatively affect our net income because the premiums we receive for the risks we assume may not be sufficient to cover the claims and profit margin. Furthermore, even if the total benefits paid over the life of the contract do not exceed the expected amount, unexpected increases in the incidence of deaths or illness can cause us to pay more benefits in a given reporting period than expected, adversely affecting our net income in any particular reporting period. Likewise, adverse experience could impair our ability to offset certain unamortized deferred acquisition costs and adversely affect our net income in any particular reporting period. 20 Table of Contents RGA is an insurance holding company, and our ability to pay principal, interest and/or dividends on securities is limited. RGA is an insurance holding company, with our principal assets consisting of the stock of our reinsurance company subsidiaries, and substantially all of our income is derived from those subsidiaries. Our ability to pay principal and interest on any debt securities or dividends on any preferred or common stock depends in part on the ability of our reinsurance company subsidiaries, our principal sources of cash flow, to declare and distribute dividends or to advance money to RGA. We are not permitted to pay common stock dividends or make payments of interest or principal on securities which rank equal or junior to our subordinated debentures, until we pay any accrued and unpaid interest on our subordinated debentures. Our reinsurance company subsidiaries are subject to various statutory and regulatory restrictions, applicable to insurance companies generally, that limit the amount of cash dividends, loans and advances that those subsidiaries may pay to us. Covenants contained in some of our debt agreements and regulations relating to capital requirements affecting some of our more significant subsidiaries also restrict the ability of certain subsidiaries to pay dividends and other distributions and make loans to us. In addition, we cannot assure you that more stringent dividend restrictions will not be adopted, as discussed below under "— Our reinsurance subsidiaries are highly regulated, and changes in these regulations could negatively affect our business.” As a result of our insurance holding company structure, in the event of the insolvency, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or other winding-up of one of our reinsurance subsidiaries, all creditors of that subsidiary would be entitled to payment in full out of the assets of such subsidiary before we, as shareholder, would be entitled to any payment. Our subsidiaries would have to pay their direct creditors in full before our creditors, including holders of any class of common stock, preferred stock or debt securities of RGA, could receive any payment from the assets of such subsidiaries. If our investment strategy is unsuccessful, we could suffer losses. The success of our investment strategy is crucial to the success of our business. In particular, we structure our investments to match our anticipated liabilities under reinsurance treaties to the extent we believe necessary. If our calculations with respect to these reinsurance liabilities are incorrect, or if we improperly structure our investments to match such liabilities, we could be forced to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a significant loss. Our investment guidelines also permit us to invest up to 10% of our investment portfolio in non-investment grade fixed maturity securities. While any investment carries some risk, the risks associated with lower-rated securities are greater than the risks associated with investment grade securities. The risk of loss of principal or interest through default is greater because lower-rated securities are usually unsecured and are often subordinated to an issuer’s other obligations. Additionally, the issuers of these securities frequently have high debt levels and are thus more sensitive to difficult economic conditions, individual corporate developments and rising interest rates which could impair an issuer’s capacity or willingness to meet its financial commitment on such lower-rated securities. As a result, the market price of these securities may be quite volatile, and the risk of loss is greater. The success of any investment activity is affected by general economic conditions, which may adversely affect the markets for interest-rate-sensitive securities and equity securities, including the level and volatility of interest rates and the extent and timing of investor participation in such markets. Unexpected volatility or illiquidity in the markets in which we directly or indirectly hold positions could adversely affect us. Interest rate fluctuations could negatively affect the income we derive from the difference between the interest rates we earn on our investments and interest we pay under our reinsurance contracts. Significant changes in interest rates expose reinsurance companies to the risk of reduced investment income or actual losses based on the difference between the interest rates earned on investments and the credited interest rates paid on outstanding reinsurance contracts. Both rising and declining interest rates can negatively affect the income we derive from these interest rate spreads. During periods of rising interest rates, we may be contractually obligated to increase the crediting rates on our reinsurance contracts that have cash values. However, we may not have the ability to immediately acquire investments with interest rates sufficient to offset the increased crediting rates on our reinsurance contracts. During periods of falling interest rates, our investment earnings will be lower because new investments in fixed maturity securities will likely bear lower interest rates. We may not be able to fully offset the decline in investment earnings with lower crediting rates on underlying annuity products related to certain of our reinsurance contracts. While we develop and maintain asset/liability management programs and procedures designed to reduce the volatility of our income when interest rates are rising or falling, we cannot assure you that changes in interest rates will not affect our interest rate spreads. 21 Table of Contents Changes in interest rates may also affect our business in other ways. Lower interest rates may result in lower sales of certain insurance and investment products of our customers, which would reduce the demand for our reinsurance of these products. The availability and cost of collateral, including letters of credit, asset trusts and other credit facilities, could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Regulatory reserve requirements in various jurisdictions in which we operate may be significantly higher than the reserves required under GAAP. Accordingly, we reinsure, or retrocede, business to affiliated and unaffiliated reinsurers to reduce the amount of regulatory reserves and capital we are required to hold in certain jurisdictions. A regulation in the United States, commonly referred to as Regulation XXX, requires a relatively high level of regulatory, or statutory, reserves that U.S. life insurance and life reinsurance companies must hold on their statutory financial statements for various types of life insurance business, primarily certain level term life products. The reserve levels required under Regulation XXX increase over time and are normally in excess of reserves required under GAAP. The degree to which these reserves will increase and the ultimate level of reserves will depend upon the mix of our business and future production levels in the United States. Based on the assumed rate of growth in our current business plan, and the increasing level of regulatory reserves associated with some of this business, we expect the amount of required regulatory reserves to grow significantly. In order to reduce the effect of Regulation XXX, our principal U.S. operating subsidiary, RGA Reinsurance, has retroceded Regulation XXX-related reserves to affiliated and unaffiliated reinsurers. Additionally, some of our reinsurance subsidiaries in other jurisdictions enter into various reinsurance arrangements with affiliated and unaffiliated reinsurers from time to time in order to reduce their statutory capital and reserve requirements. As a general matter, for us to reduce regulatory reserves on business that we retrocede, the affiliated or unaffiliated reinsurer must provide an equal amount of collateral. Such collateral may be provided through a capital markets securitization, in the form of a letter of credit from a commercial bank or through the placement of assets in trust for our benefit. In connection with these reserve requirements, we face the following risks: • The availability of collateral and the related cost of such collateral in the future could affect the type and volume of business we reinsure and could increase our costs. • We may need to raise additional capital to support higher regulatory reserves, which could increase our overall cost of capital. • If we, or our retrocessionaires, are unable to obtain or provide sufficient collateral to support our statutory ceded reserves, we may be required to increase regulatory reserves. In turn, this reserve increase could significantly reduce our statutory capital levels and adversely affect our ability to satisfy required regulatory capital levels that apply to us, unless we are able to raise additional capital to contribute to our operating subsidiaries. • Because term life insurance is a particularly price-sensitive product, any increase in insurance premiums charged on these products by life insurance companies, in order to compensate them for the increased statutory reserve requirements or higher costs of insurance they face, may result in a significant loss of volume in their life insurance operations, which could, in turn, adversely affect our life reinsurance operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to implement actions to mitigate the effect of increasing regulatory reserve requirements. We could be forced to sell investments at a loss to cover policyholder withdrawals, recaptures of reinsurance treaties or other events. Some of the products offered by our insurance company customers allow policyholders and contract holders to withdraw their funds under defined circumstances. Our reinsurance subsidiaries manage their liabilities and configure their investment portfolios so as to provide and maintain sufficient liquidity to support anticipated withdrawal demands and contract benefits and maturities under reinsurance treaties with these customers. While our reinsurance subsidiaries own a significant amount of liquid assets, a portion of their assets are relatively illiquid. Unanticipated withdrawal or surrender activity could, under some circumstances, require our reinsurance subsidiaries to dispose of assets on unfavorable terms, which could have an adverse effect on us. Reinsurance agreements may provide for recapture rights on the part of our insurance company customers. Recapture rights permit these customers to reassume all or a portion of the risk formerly ceded to us after an agreed upon time, usually ten years, subject to various conditions. Recapture of business previously ceded does not affect premiums ceded prior to the recapture, but may result in immediate payments to our insurance company customers and a charge for costs that we deferred when we acquired the 22 Table of Contents business but are unable to recover upon recapture. Under some circumstances, payments to our insurance company customers could require our reinsurance subsidiaries to dispose of assets on unfavorable terms. Changes in the equity markets, interest rates and/or volatility affects the profitability of variable annuities with guaranteed living benefits that we reinsure; therefore, such changes may have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability. We reinsure variable annuity products that include guaranteed minimum living benefits. These include guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits (“GMWB”), guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits (“GMAB”) and guaranteed minimum income benefits (“GMIB”). The amount of reserves related to these benefits is based on their fair value and is affected by changes in equity markets, interest rates and volatility. Accordingly, strong equity markets, increases in interest rates and decreases in volatility will generally decrease the fair value of the liabilities underlying the benefits. Conversely, a decrease in the equity markets along with a decrease in interest rates and an increase in volatility will generally result in an increase in the fair value of the liabilities underlying the benefits, which has the effect of increasing the amount of reserves that we must carry. Such an increase in reserves would result in a charge to our earnings in the quarter in which we increase our reserves. We maintain a customized dynamic hedge program that is designed to mitigate the risks associated with income volatility around the change in reserves on guaranteed benefits. However, the hedge positions may not be effective to exactly offset the changes in the carrying value of the guarantees due to, among other things, the time lag between changes in their values and corresponding changes in the hedge positions, high levels of volatility in the equity markets and derivatives markets, extreme swings in interest rates, contract holder behavior different than expected, and divergence between the performance of the underlying funds and hedging indices. These factors, individually or collectively, may have a material adverse effect on our net income, financial condition or liquidity. We are exposed to foreign currency risk. We are a multi-national company with operations in numerous countries and, as a result, are exposed to foreign currency risk to the extent that exchange rates of foreign currencies are subject to adverse change over time. The U.S. dollar value of our net investments in foreign operations, our foreign currency transaction settlements and the periodic conversion of the foreign-denominated earnings to U.S. dollars (our reporting currency) are each subject to adverse foreign exchange rate movements. Approximately 38% of our revenues and 32% of our fixed maturity securities available for sale were denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar as of and for the year ended December 31, 2009. We depend on the performance of others, and their failure to perform in a satisfactory manner would negatively affect us. In the normal course of business, we seek to limit our exposure to losses from our reinsurance contracts by ceding a portion of the reinsurance to other insurance enterprises or retrocessionaires. We cannot assure you that these insurance enterprises or retrocessionaires will be able to fulfill their obligations to us. As of December 31, 2009, the retrocession pool members participating in our excess retention pool that have been reviewed by A.M. Best Company, were rated “A-”, the fourth highest rating out of fifteen possible ratings, or better. We are also subject to the risk that our clients will be unable to fulfill their obligations to us under our reinsurance agreements with them. We rely upon our insurance company clients to provide timely, accurate information. We may experience volatility in our earnings as a result of erroneous or untimely reporting from our clients. We work closely with our clients and monitor their reporting to minimize this risk. We also rely on original underwriting decisions made by our clients. We cannot assure you that these processes or those of our clients will adequately control business quality or establish appropriate pricing. For some reinsurance agreements, the ceding company withholds and legally owns and manages assets equal to the net statutory reserves, and we reflect these assets as funds withheld at interest on our balance sheet. In the event that a ceding company were to become insolvent, we would need to assert a claim on the assets supporting our reserve liabilities. We attempt to mitigate our risk of loss by offsetting amounts for claims or allowances that we owe the ceding company with amounts that the ceding company owes to us. We are subject to the investment performance on the withheld assets, although we do not directly control them. We help to set, and monitor compliance with, the investment guidelines followed by these ceding companies. However, to the extent that such investment guidelines are not appropriate, or to the extent that the ceding companies do not adhere to such guidelines, our risk of loss could increase, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. During 2009, interest earned on funds withheld represented 5.4% of our consolidated revenues. Funds withheld at interest totaled $4.9 billion at December 31, 2009 and $4.5 billion as of December 31, 2008. 23 Table of Contents We use the services of third-party investment managers to manage certain assets where our investment management expertise is limited. We rely on these investment managers to provide investment advice and execute investment transactions that are within our investment policy guidelines. Poor performance on the part of our outside investment managers could negatively affect our financial performance. As with all financial services companies, our ability to conduct business depends on consumer confidence in the industry and our financial strength. Actions of competitors, and financial difficulties of other companies in the industry, and related adverse publicity, could undermine consumer confidence and harm our reputation. Natural and man-made disasters, catastrophes, and events, including the threat of terrorist attacks, epidemics and pandemics, may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Natural disasters and terrorist attacks, as well as epidemics and pandemics, can adversely affect our business and results of operations because they accelerate mortality and morbidity risk. Terrorist attacks on the United States and in other parts of the world and the threat of future attacks could have a negative effect on our business. We believe our reinsurance programs are sufficient to reasonably limit our net losses for individual life claims relating to potential future natural disasters and terrorist attacks. However, the consequences of further natural disasters, terrorist attacks, armed conflicts, epidemics and pandemics are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on our business. We operate in a competitive industry which could adversely affect our market share. The reinsurance industry is highly competitive, and we encounter significant competition in all lines of business from other reinsurance companies, as well as competition from other providers of financial services. Our competitors vary by geographic market. We believe our primary competitors in the North American life reinsurance market are currently the following, or their affiliates: Transamerica Occidental Life Insurance Company, a subsidiary of Aegon, N.V., Swiss Re Life, Munich Reinsurance Company and Generali Re. We believe our primary competitors in the international life reinsurance markets are Swiss Re Life and Health Ltd., General Re, Munich Reinsurance Company, Hannover Reinsurance and SCOR Global Reinsurance. Many of our competitors have greater financial resources than we do. Our ability to compete depends on, among other things, our ability to maintain strong financial strength ratings from rating agencies, pricing and other terms and conditions of reinsurance agreements, and our reputation, service, and experience in the types of business that we underwrite. However, competition from other reinsurers could adversely affect our competitive position. Our target market is generally large life insurers. We compete based on the strength of our underwriting operations, insights on mortality trends based on our large book of business, and responsive service. We believe our quick response time to client requests for individual underwriting quotes and our underwriting expertise are important elements to our strategy and lead to other business opportunities with our clients. Our business will be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain these competitive advantages or if our international strategy is not successful. Tax law changes or a prolonged economic downturn could reduce the demand for insurance products, which could adversely affect our business. Under the Internal Revenue Code, income tax payable by policyholders on investment earnings is deferred during the accumulation period of some life insurance and annuity products. To the extent that the Internal Revenue Code is revised to reduce the tax-deferred status of life insurance and annuity products, or to increase the tax-deferred status of competing products, all life insurance companies would be adversely affected with respect to their ability to sell such products, and, depending on grandfathering provisions, by the surrenders of existing annuity contracts and life insurance policies. In addition, life insurance products are often used to fund estate tax obligations. Congress has adopted legislation to eliminate the estate tax. Under this legislation, our U.S. life insurance company customers could face reduced demand for some of their life insurance products, which in turn could negatively affect our reinsurance business. Further, the Obama Administration has proposed certain changes to individual income tax rates, changes to the taxation of our international operations and rules applicable to certain policies. We cannot predict what future tax initiatives may be proposed and enacted that could affect us. 24 Table of Contents Changes in tax laws, Treasury and other regulations promulgated thereunder, or interpretations of such laws or regulations could increase our corporate taxes. The Obama Administration has proposed corporate tax changes. Changes in corporate tax rates could affect the value of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities. Furthermore, the value of deferred tax assets could be affected by future earnings levels. We cannot predict whether any tax legislation impacting corporate taxes or insurance products will be enacted, what the specific terms of any such legislation will be or whether, if at all, any legislation would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a general economic downturn or a downturn in the equity and other capital markets could adversely affect the market for many annuity and life insurance products. Because we obtain substantially all of our revenues through reinsurance arrangements that cover a portfolio of life insurance products, as well as annuities, our business would be harmed if the market for annuities or life insurance was adversely affected. In addition, the market for annuity reinsurance products is currently not well developed, and we cannot assure you that such market will develop in the future. Our reinsurance subsidiaries are highly regulated, and changes in these regulations could negatively affect our business. Our reinsurance subsidiaries are subject to government regulation in each of the jurisdictions in which they are licensed or authorized to do business. Governmental agencies have broad administrative power to regulate many aspects of the insurance business, which may include premium rates, marketing practices, advertising, policy forms, and capital adequacy. These agencies are concerned primarily with the protection of policyholders rather than shareholders or holders of debt securities. Moreover, insurance laws and regulations, among other things, establish minimum capital requirements and limit the amount of dividends, tax distributions, and other payments our reinsurance subsidiaries can make without prior regulatory approval, and impose restrictions on the amount and type of investments we may hold. The State of Missouri also regulates RGA as an insurance holding company. Recently, insurance regulators have increased their scrutiny of the insurance regulatory framework in the United States and some state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that alter, and in many cases increase, state authority to regulate insurance holding companies and insurance companies. In light of recent legislative developments, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or “NAIC”, and state insurance regulators have begun re-examining existing laws and regulations, specifically focusing on insurance company investments and solvency issues, guidelines imposing minimum capital requirements based on business levels and asset mix, interpretations of existing laws, the development of new laws, the implementation of non-statutory guidelines, and the definition of extraordinary dividends, including a more stringent standard for allowance of extraordinary dividends. We are unable to predict whether, when or in what form the State of Missouri will enact a new measure for extraordinary dividends, and we cannot assure you that more stringent restrictions will not be adopted from time to time in other jurisdictions in which our reinsurance subsidiaries are domiciled, which could, under certain circumstances, significantly reduce dividends or other amounts payable to us by our subsidiaries unless they obtain approval from insurance regulatory authorities. We cannot predict the effect that any NAIC recommendations or proposed or future legislation or rule-making in the United States or elsewhere may have on our financial condition or operations. Acquisitions and significant transactions involve varying degrees of risk that could affect our profitability. We have made, and may in the future make, strategic acquisitions, either of selected blocks of business or other companies. Acquisitions may expose us to operational challenges and various risks, including: • the ability to integrate the acquired business operations and data with our systems; • the availability of funding sufficient to meet increased capital needs; • the ability to fund cash flow shortages that may occur if anticipated revenues are not realized or are delayed, whether by general economic or market conditions or unforeseen internal difficulties; and • the possibility that the value of investments acquired in an acquisition, may be lower than expected or may diminish due to credit defaults or changes in interest rates and that liabilities assumed may be greater than expected (due to, among other factors, less favorable than expected mortality or morbidity experience). A failure to successfully manage the operational challenges and risks associated with or resulting from significant transactions, including acquisitions, could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. 25 Table of Contents Our international operations involve inherent risks. In 2009, approximately 31.1% of our net premiums and $135.9 million of income from continuing operations before income taxes came from our operations in Europe & South Africa and Asia Pacific. One of our strategies is to grow these international operations. International operations subject us to various inherent risks. In addition to the regulatory and foreign currency risks identified above, other risks include the following: • managing the growth of these operations effectively, particularly given the recent rates of growth; • changes in mortality and morbidity experience and the supply and demand for our products that are specific to these markets and that may be difficult to anticipate; • political and economic instability in the regions of the world where we operate; • uncertainty arising out of foreign government sovereignty over our international operations; and • potentially uncertain or adverse tax consequences, including the repatriation of earnings from our non-U.S. subsidiaries. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage these risks effectively or that they will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our risk management policies and procedures could leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could negatively affect our business or result in losses. Our risk management policies and procedures to identify, monitor, and manage both internal and external risks may not predict future exposures, which could be different or significantly greater than expected. These identified risks may not be the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. Unanticipated events in our disaster recovery systems and management continuity planning could impair our ability to conduct business. In the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an industrial accident, a blackout, a computer virus, a terrorist attack or war, unanticipated problems with our disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial position, particularly if those problems affect our computer-based data processing, transmission, storage and retrieval systems and destroy valuable data. We depend heavily upon computer systems to provide reliable service, data and reports. Despite our implementation of a variety of security measures, our servers could be subject to physical and electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. In addition, in the event that a significant number of our managers were unavailable in the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business could be severely compromised. These interruptions also may interfere with our clients’ ability to provide data and other information and our employees’ ability to perform their job responsibilities. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock We may not pay dividends on our common stock. Our shareholders may not receive future dividends. Historically, we have paid quarterly dividends ranging from $0.027 per share in 1993 to $0.09 per share in 2009. All future payments of dividends, however, are at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our earnings, capital requirements, insurance regulatory conditions, operating conditions, and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant. The amount of dividends that we can pay will depend in part on the operations of our reinsurance subsidiaries. Under certain circumstances, we may be contractually prohibited from paying dividends on our common stock due to restrictions in certain debt and trust preferred securities. RGA’s anti-takeover provisions may delay or prevent a change in control of RGA, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Certain provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Missouri law, may delay or prevent a change of control of RGA, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain some provisions that may make the acquisition of control of RGA without the approval of our board of directors more difficult, including provisions relating to the nomination, election and removal of directors, the structure of the board of directors and limitations on actions by our shareholders. In addition, Missouri law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between RGA and holders of 20% or more of our outstanding common stock. 26 Table of Contents Furthermore, our articles of incorporation are intended to limit stock ownership of RGA stock (other than shares acquired through the divestiture by MetLife or other exempted transactions) to less than 5% of the value of the aggregate outstanding shares of RGA stock during the restriction period. We have also adopted a Section 382 shareholder rights plan designed to deter shareholders from becoming a “5-percent shareholder” (as defined by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and the related Treasury regulations) without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions may have unintended anti-takeover effects. These provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and Missouri law may delay or prevent a change in control of RGA, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Applicable insurance laws may make it difficult to effect a change of control of RGA. Before a person can acquire control of a U.S. insurance company, prior written approval must be obtained from the insurance commission of the state where the domestic insurer is domiciled. Missouri insurance laws and regulations provide that no person may acquire control of us, and thus indirect control of our Missouri reinsurance subsidiaries, including RGA Reinsurance, unless: • such person has provided certain required information to the Missouri Department of Insurance; and • such acquisition is approved by the Director of Insurance of the State of Missouri, whom we refer to as the Missouri Director of Insurance, after a public hearing. Under Missouri insurance laws and regulations, any person acquiring 10% or more of the outstanding voting securities of a corporation, such as our common stock, is presumed to have acquired control of that corporation and its subsidiaries. Canadian federal insurance laws and regulations provide that no person may directly or indirectly acquire “control” of or a “significant interest” in our Canadian insurance subsidiary, RGA Canada, unless: • such person has provided information, material and evidence to the Canadian Superintendent of Financial Institutions as required by him, and • such acquisition is approved by the Canadian Minister of Finance. For this purpose, “significant interest” means the direct or indirect beneficial ownership by a person, or group of persons acting in concert, of shares representing 10% or more of a given class, and “control” of an insurance company exists when: • a person, or group of persons acting in concert, beneficially owns or controls an entity that beneficially owns securities, such as our common stock, representing more than 50% of the votes entitled to be cast for the election of directors and such votes are sufficient to elect a majority of the directors of the insurance company, or • a person has any direct or indirect influence that would result in control in fact of an insurance company. Prior to granting approval of an application to directly or indirectly acquire control of a domestic or foreign insurer, an insurance regulator may consider such factors as the financial strength of the applicant, the integrity of the applicant’s board of directors and executive officers, the applicant’s plans for the future operations of the domestic insurer and any anti-competitive results that may arise from the consummation of the acquisition of control. Future stock sales, including sales by any selling shareholders, may dilute the value or affect the price of our common stock. Our board of directors has the authority, without action or vote of the shareholders, to issue any or all authorized but unissued shares of our common stock, including securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock and authorized but unissued shares under our stock option and other equity compensation plans. In the future, we may issue such additional securities, through public or private offerings, in order to raise additional capital. Any such issuance will dilute the percentage ownership of shareholders and may dilute the per share projected earnings or book value of the common stock. In addition, option holders may exercise their options at any time when we would otherwise be able to obtain additional equity capital on more favorable terms. MetLife retained an approximate 4.1% interest in RGA through the retention of 3,000,000 shares of common stock, and agreed that it will sell, exchange or otherwise dispose of its remaining recently acquired stock by September 12, 2013. Any disposition by MetLife of its remaining shares of common stock could result in a substantial amount of RGA equity securities entering the market, which may adversely affect the price of such common stock. 27 Table of Contents The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The overall market and the price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate as a result of many factors in addition to those discussed in the preceding risk factors. These factors, some or all of which are beyond our control, include: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance or changes in financial estimates of securities analysts; • success of our operating and growth strategies; • investor anticipation of strategic and technological threats, whether or not warranted by actual events; • operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; and • realization of any of the risks described in these risk factors or those set forth in any subsequent Annual Report on Form 10-K or Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. In addition, the stock market has historically experienced volatility that often has been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. The acquisition restrictions contained in our articles of incorporation and our Section 382 shareholder rights plan, which are intended to help preserve RGA and its subsidiaries’ net operating losses (“NOLs”) and other tax attributes, may not be effective or may have unintended negative effects. We have recognized and may continue to recognize substantial NOLs, and other tax attributes, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Under the Internal Revenue Code, we may “carry forward” these NOLs, in certain circumstances to offset any current and future taxable income and thus reduce our federal income tax liability, subject to certain requirements and restrictions. To the extent that the NOLs do not otherwise become limited, we believe that we will be able to carry forward a substantial amount of NOLs and, therefore, these NOLs are a substantial asset to RGA. However, if RGA and its subsidiaries experience an “ownership change,” as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and related Treasury regulations, their ability to use the NOLs could be substantially limited, and the timing of the usage of the NOLs could be substantially delayed, which consequently could significantly impair the value of that asset. To reduce the likelihood of an ownership change, in light of MetLife’s recent divestiture of most of its RGA stock, we have established acquisition restrictions in our articles of incorporation and our board of directors adopted a Section 382 shareholder rights plan. The Section 382 shareholder rights plan is designed to protect shareholder value by attempting to protect against a limitation on the ability of RGA and its subsidiaries to use their existing NOLs and other tax attributes. The acquisition restrictions in our articles of incorporation are also intended to restrict certain acquisitions of RGA stock to help preserve the ability of RGA and its subsidiaries to utilize their NOLs and other tax attributes by avoiding the limitations imposed by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and the related Treasury regulations. The acquisition restrictions and the Section 382 shareholder rights plan are generally designed to restrict or deter direct and indirect acquisitions of RGA stock if such acquisition would result in an RGA shareholder becoming a 5-percent shareholder or increase the percentage ownership of RGA stock that is treated as owned by an existing 5-percent shareholder. Although the acquisition restrictions and the Section 382 shareholder rights plan are intended to reduce the likelihood of an ownership change that could adversely affect RGA and its subsidiaries, we can give no assurance that such restrictions would prevent all transfers that could result in such an ownership change. In particular, we have been advised by our counsel that, absent a court determination, there can be no assurance that the acquisition restrictions will be enforceable against all of the RGA shareholders, and that they may be subject to challenge on equitable grounds. In particular, it is possible that the acquisition restrictions may not be enforceable against the RGA shareholders who voted against or abstained from voting on the restrictions at our recent special meeting of shareholders or who do not have notice of the restrictions at the time when they subsequently acquire their shares. Under certain circumstances, our board of directors may determine it is in the best interest of RGA and its shareholders to exempt certain 5-percent shareholders from the operation of the Section 382 shareholder rights plan, in light of the provisions of the recapitalization and distribution agreement. Accordingly, our board of directors may determine that it is in the best interest of the Company not to enforce the Section 382 shareholder rights plan. The acquisition restrictions and Section 382 shareholder rights plan also require any person attempting to become a holder of 5% or more (by value) of RGA stock, as determined under the Internal Revenue Code, to seek the approval of our board of directors. This may have an unintended “anti-takeover” effect because our board of directors may be able to prevent any future takeover. Similarly, any limits on the amount of stock that a shareholder may own could have the effect of making 28 Table of Contents it more difficult for shareholders to replace current management. Additionally, because the acquisition restrictions and Section 382 shareholder rights plan have the effect of restricting a shareholder’s ability to dispose of or acquire RGA stock, the liquidity and market value of RGA stock might suffer. The acquisition restrictions and the Section 382 shareholder rights plan will remain in effect for the “restriction period,” which is until the earlier of (a) September 13, 2011, or (b) such other date as our board of directors in good faith determines they are no longer in the best interests of RGA and its shareholders. The acquisition restrictions may be waived by our board of directors. Shareholders are advised to monitor carefully their ownership of RGA stock and consult their own legal advisors and/or RGA to determine whether their ownership of RGA stock approaches the proscribed level. The occurrence of various events may adversely affect the ability of RGA and its subsidiaries to fully utilize NOLs and other tax attributes. RGA and its subsidiaries have a substantial amount of NOLs and other tax attributes, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, that are available both currently and in the future to offset taxable income and gains. Events outside of our control may cause RGA (and, consequently, its subsidiaries) to experience an “ownership change” under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and the related Treasury regulations, and limit the ability of RGA and its subsidiaries to utilize fully such NOLs and other tax attributes. Moreover, the MetLife split-off increased the likelihood of RGA experiencing such an ownership change. In general, an ownership change occurs when, as of any testing date, the percentage of stock of a corporation owned by one or more “5-percent shareholders,” as defined in the Internal Revenue Code and the related Treasury regulations, has increased by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of stock of the corporation owned by such shareholders at any time during the three-year period preceding such date. In general, persons who own 5% or more (by value) of a corporation’s stock are 5-percent shareholders, and all other persons who own less than 5% (by value) of a corporation’s stock are treated, together, as a single, public group 5-percent shareholder, regardless of whether they own an aggregate of 5% or more (by value) of a corporation’s stock. If a corporation experiences an ownership change, it is generally subject to an annual limitation, which limits its ability to use its NOLs and other tax attributes to an amount equal to the equity value of the corporation multiplied by the federal long-term tax-exempt rate. If we were to experience an ownership change, we could potentially have in the future higher U.S. federal income tax liabilities than we would otherwise have had and it may also result in certain other adverse consequences to RGA. In this connection, we have adopted the Section 382 shareholder rights plan and the acquisition restrictions set forth in Article Fourteen to our articles of incorporation, in order to reduce the likelihood that RGA and its subsidiaries will experience an ownership change under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. There can be no assurance, however, that these efforts will prevent the MetLife split-off, together with certain other transactions involving our stock, from causing us to experience an ownership change and the adverse consequences that may arise therefrom, as described above under “— The acquisition restrictions contained in our articles of incorporation and our Section 382 shareholder rights plan, which are intended to help preserve RGA and its subsidiaries’ NOLs and other tax attributes, may not be effective or may have unintended negative effects.” Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company has no unresolved staff comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission. 