Risk Factors As referenced, this Annual Report on Form 10-K includes certain forward-looking statements regarding various matters. The ultimate correctness of those forward-looking statements is dependent upon a number of known and unknown risks and events, and is subject to various uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be different from those expressed or implied by those statements. Undue reliance should not be placed on those forward-looking statements. The following important factors, among others, as well as those factors set forth in our other SEC filings from time to time, could affect future results and events, causing results and events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements. Our operating results may fluctuate due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our annual and quarterly operating results are affected by a number of factors, including: • adverse changes in general economic conditions; • the level and timing of customer orders; • the level of capacity utilization of our manufacturing facilities and associated fixed costs; • the composition of the costs of revenue between materials, labor and manufacturing overhead; • price competition; • changes in demand in our customers’ end markets; 16 Table of Contents • our level of experience in manufacturing a particular product; • the degree of automation used in our assembly process; • the efficiencies achieved in managing inventories and fixed assets; • fluctuations in materials costs and availability of materials; • seasonality in customers’ product requirements; and • the timing of expenditures in anticipation of increased sales, customer product delivery requirements and shortages of components or labor. The volume and timing of orders placed by our customers vary due to variation in demand for our customers’ products; our customers’ attempts to manage their inventory; electronic design changes; changes in our customers’ manufacturing strategies; and acquisitions of or consolidations among our customers. In the past, changes in customer orders that reduce net revenue have had a significant effect on our results of operations as a result of our overhead remaining relatively fixed while our net revenue decreased. Any one or a combination of these factors could adversely affect our annual and quarterly results of operations in the future. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Quarterly Results.” Because we depend on a limited number of customers, a reduction in sales to any one of our customers could cause a significant decline in our revenue. For the fiscal year ended August 31, 2006, our five largest customers accounted for approximately 52% of our net revenue and 50 customers accounted for approximately 90% of our net revenue. We currently depend, and expect to continue to depend upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant percentage of our net revenue and upon their growth, viability and financial stability. If any of our customers experience a decline in the demand for their products due to economic or other forces, they may reduce their purchases from us or terminate their relationship with us. Our customers’ industries have experienced rapid technological change, shortening of product life cycles, consolidation, and pricing and margin pressures. Consolidation among our customers may further reduce the number of customers that generate a significant percentage of our net revenue and exposes us to increased risks relating to dependence on a small number of customers. A significant reduction in sales to any of our customers or a customer exerting significant pricing and margin pressures on us would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In the past, some of our customers have terminated their manufacturing arrangements with us or have significantly reduced or delayed the volume of design, production, product management or after-market services ordered from us. Our industry’s revenue declined in mid-2001 as a result of significant cut backs in customer production requirements, which was consistent with the overall global economic downturn. We cannot assure you that present or future customers will not terminate their design, production, product management and after-market services arrangements with us or significantly change, reduce or delay the amount of services ordered from us. If they do, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, we generate significant account receivables in connection with providing design, production, product management and after-market services to our customers. If one or more of our customers were to become insolvent or otherwise were unable to pay for the services provided by us, our operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. See “Business – Customers and Marketing” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” In particular, one of the industries to which we provide services, the automobile industry, has recently experienced significant financial difficulty, with some of the participants filing for bankruptcy. Such significant financial difficulty, if experienced by one or more of our customers, may negatively affect our business due to the decreased demand of these financially distressed customers, the potential inability of these companies to make full payment on amounts owed to us, or both. 17 Table of Contents We are involved in reviews of our historical stock option grant practices. As described elsewhere herein, we are involved in shareholder derivative actions, a putative shareholder class action and a Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) Informal Inquiry, and have received a subpoena from the U.S. Attorney’s office for the Southern District of New York in connection with certain historical stock option grants. In response to the derivative actions, an independent Special Committee of our Board of Directors (the “Special Committee”) was appointed to review the allegations in such actions. We have cooperated and intend to continue to cooperate with the Special Committee, the SEC and the U.S Attorney’s office. The Special Committee has concluded that the evidence does not support a finding of intentional manipulation of stock option grant pricing by any member of management. In addition, the Special Committee concluded that it is not in our best interests to pursue the derivative actions. The Special Committee identified certain factors related to our controls surrounding the process of accounting for option grants that contributed to the accounting errors that led to the restatement. The investigations of the SEC and the U.S. Attorney’s office may look at the accuracy of the stated dates of our historical option grants, the Company’s disclosures regarding executive compensation, whether all proper corporate and other procedures were followed, whether our historical financial statements are materially accurate and other issues. We cannot predict the outcome of those investigations. Regardless of the outcomes of the investigations, we will continue to incur substantial costs and the investigations will cause a diversion of our management’s time and attention, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We can not provide assurances that such investigations will not find inappropriate activity in connection with our historical stock option practices or result in further revising of our historical accounting associated with such stock option grant practices. The matters relating to the Special Committee’s review of our historical stock option granting practices and the restatement of our Consolidated Financial Statements has resulted in expanded litigation and regulatory proceedings against us and may result in future litigation, which could have a material adverse effect on us. On May 3, 2006, the Board of Directors established the Special Committee, to conduct a review of our historical stock option granting practices during fiscal years 1996 through 2006. As described in Note 2 – “Stock Option Litigation and Restatements” to the Consolidated Financial Statements, as a result of that review and management’s undertaking of a separate review of our historical stock option grant practices, we have identified a number of occasions in which stock option awards that were granted to officers, employees and a non-employee contract director were not properly accounted for. To correct these accounting errors, we have restated prior year and prior quarter Consolidated Financial Statements and disclosures in this Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2006. The review of our historical stock option granting practices and the resulting restatements, have required us to incur substantial expenses for legal, accounting, tax and other professional services and have diverted our management’s attention from our business and could in the future adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our historical stock option granting practices and the restatement of our prior financial statements have exposed us to greater risks associated with litigation and regulatory proceedings. As described in Part I, Item 3 – “Legal Proceedings,” we are parties to several lawsuits containing allegations relating to stock option grants. We cannot assure you that any determinations made in the current litigation, the SEC Inquiry or any future litigation or regulatory action will reach the same conclusions on these issues that we have reached. The conduct and resolution of these matters will be time consuming, expensive and distracting from the conduct of our business. Furthermore, if we are subject to adverse findings in any of these matters, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed upon us which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Finally, as a result of our delayed filing of Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2006, as well as the delayed filing of our Forms 10-Q for the periods ended November 30, 2006 and February 28, 2007, we will be ineligible to register our securities on Form S-3 for sale of our securities by us or resale by others until we 18 Table of Contents have timely filed all periodic reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 for one year from the date we become current on those filings. Until then, we would have to use a Form S-1 registration statement to raise capital or complete acquisitions, which could increase transaction costs and adversely impact our ability to raise capital or complete acquisitions of other companies in a timely manner. We are involved in a review of our recognition of revenue for certain historical transactions. As described in the Explanatory Note immediately preceding Part I of this Form 10-K, our Audit Committee of our Board of Directors, assisted by independent legal counsel, reviewed certain historical transactions, and concluded that, while the impact was not material, accounting errors occurred in connection with recognizing certain income and expenses such that our consolidated earnings for fiscal year 2001 were lower by an immaterial amount than what was previously reported and our consolidated earnings for fiscal year 2002 included in the five year table herein Item 6 – “Selected Financial Data” has been revised upward by a similar amount. The Audit Committee’s and legal counsel’s findings were presented to the SEC. We intend to continue to cooperate fully with the SEC’s review of these matters. However, we cannot predict the extent or the outcome of such review. In addition, future litigation and regulatory investigation or action may arise in connection with these revenue recognition issues. We cannot assure you that the determinations reached by the SEC, or reached in any future litigation or regulatory action, will be consistent with our conclusions on these issues. If we are subject to adverse findings in any of these matters, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed upon us which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. In addition, regardless of the final outcomes of any of these matters, the conduct and resolution of such matters could be sufficiently time-consuming, expensive and distracting to our management team which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Consolidation in industries that utilize electronics components may adversely affect our business. Consolidation in industries that utilize electronics components may further increase as companies combine to achieve further economies of scale and other synergies, which could result in an increase in excess manufacturing capacity as companies seek to divest manufacturing operations or eliminate duplicative product lines. Excess manufacturing capacity may increase pricing and competitive pressures for our industry as a whole and for us in particular. Consolidation could also result in an increasing number of very large companies offering products in multiple industries. The significant purchasing power and market power of these large companies could increase pricing and competitive pressures for us. If one of our customers is acquired by another company that does not rely on us to provide services and has its own production facilities or relies on another provider of similar services, we may lose that customer’s business. Such consolidation among our customers may further reduce the number of customers that generate a significant percentage of our net revenue and exposes us to increased risks relating to dependence on a small number of customers. Any of the foregoing results of industry consolidation could adversely affect our business. Our customers face numerous competitive challenges, such as rapid technological change and short life cycles for their products, which may materially adversely affect their business, and also ours. Factors affecting the industries that utilize electronics components in general, and our customers specifically, could seriously harm our customers and, as a result, us. These factors include: • The inability of our customers to adapt to rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards, which result in short product life cycles. • The inability of our customers to develop and market their products, some of which are new and untested, the potential that our customers’ products may become obsolete or the failure of our customers’ products to gain widespread commercial acceptance. 19 Table of Contents • Recessionary periods in our customers’ markets. • Increased competition among our customers and their respective competitors which may result in a loss of business, or a reduction in pricing power, for our customers. • New product offerings by our customers’ competitors may prove to be more successful than our customers’ product offerings. If our customers are unsuccessful in addressing these competitive challenges, or any others that they may face, then their business may be materially adversely affected, and as a result, the demand for our services could decline. The success of our business is dependent on both our ability to independently keep pace with technological changes and competitive conditions in our industry, and also our ability to effectively adapt our services in response to our customers keeping pace with technological changes and competitive conditions in their respective industries. If we are unable to offer technologically advanced, cost effective, quick response manufacturing services, demand for our services will decline. In addition, if we are unable to offer services in response to our customer’s changing requirements, then demand for our services will also decline. A substantial portion of our net revenue is derived from our offering of complete service solutions for our customers. For example, if we fail to maintain high-quality design and engineering services, our net revenue may significantly decline. Most of our customers do not commit to long-term production schedules, which makes it difficult for us to schedule production and achieve maximum efficiency of our manufacturing capacity. The volume and timing of sales to our customers may vary due to: • variation in demand for our customers’ products; • our customers’ attempts to manage their inventory; • electronic design changes; • changes in our customers’ manufacturing strategy; and • acquisitions of or consolidations among customers. Due in part to these factors, most of our customers do not commit to firm production schedules for more than one quarter in advance. Our inability to forecast the level of customer orders with certainty makes it difficult to schedule production and maximize utilization of manufacturing capacity. In the past, we have been required to increase staffing and other expenses in order to meet the anticipated demand of our customers. Anticipated orders from many of our customers have, in the past, failed to materialize or delivery schedules have been deferred as a result of changes in our customers’ business needs, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations. On other occasions, our customers have required rapid increases in production, which have placed an excessive burden on our resources. Such customer order fluctuations and deferrals have had a material adverse effect on us in the past, and we may experience such effects in the future. A business downturn resulting from any of these external factors could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Business – Backlog.” Our customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities or delay production. Our industry must provide increasingly rapid product turnaround for its customers. We generally do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers and we continue to experience reduced lead-times in customer orders. Customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities or delay production 20 Table of Contents for a number of reasons. The success of our customers’ products in the market affects our business. Cancellations, reductions or delay by a significant customer or by a group of customers could negatively impact our operating results. In addition, we make significant decisions, including determining the levels of business that we will seek and accept, production schedules, component procurement commitments, personnel needs and other resource requirements, based on our estimate of customer requirements. The short-term nature of our customers’ commitments and the possibility of rapid changes in demand for their products reduce our ability to accurately estimate the future requirements of those customers. On occasion, customers may require rapid increases in production, which can stress our resources and reduce operating margins. In addition, because many of our costs and operating expenses are relatively fixed, a reduction in customer demand can harm our gross profits and operating results. We compete with numerous other electronic manufacturing services and design providers and others, including our current and potential customers who may decide to manufacture all of their products internally. Our business is highly competitive. We compete against numerous domestic and foreign electronic manufacturing services and design providers, including Benchmark Electronics, Inc., Celestica, Inc., Flextronics International, Hon-Hai Precision Industry Co., Ltd., Plexus Corp., Sanmina-SCI Corporation and Solectron Corporation. In addition, we may in the future encounter competition from other large electronic manufacturers and manufacturers that are focused solely on design and manufacturing services, that are selling, or may begin to sell the same services. Most of our competitors have international operations, significant financial resources and some have substantially greater manufacturing, R&D, and marketing resources than us. These competitors may: • respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies; • have greater name recognition, critical mass and geographic market presence; • be better able to take advantage of acquisition opportunities; • adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements; • devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their services; and • be better positioned to compete on price for their services. We also face competition from the manufacturing operations of our current and potential customers, who are continually evaluating the merits of manufacturing products internally against the advantages of outsourcing. See “Business – Competition.” Increased competition may result in decreased demand or prices for our services. Because our industry is highly competitive, we compete against numerous domestic and foreign electronic manufacturing services and design providers with global operations, as well as those who operate on a local or regional basis. In addition, current and prospective customers continually evaluate the merits of manufacturing products internally. Some of our competitors have substantially greater managerial, manufacturing, engineering, technical, systems, R&D, sales and marketing resources than we do. Consolidation in our industry results in larger and more geographically diverse competitors who have significant combined resources with which to compete against us. We may be operating at a cost disadvantage compared to competitors who have greater direct buying power from component suppliers, distributors and raw material suppliers or who have lower cost structures as a result of their geographic location or the services they provide. As a result, competitors may procure a competitive 21 Table of Contents advantage and obtain business from our customers. Our manufacturing processes are generally not subject to significant proprietary protection. In addition, companies with greater resources or a greater market presence may enter our market or increase their competition with us. We also expect our competitors to continue to improve the performance of their current products or services, to reduce their current products or service sales prices and to introduce new products or services that may offer greater performance and improved pricing. Any of these could cause a decline in sales, loss of market acceptance of our products or services, profit margin compression, or loss of market share. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from our international operations, which may be subject to a number of risks and often require more management time and expense to achieve profitability than our domestic operations. We derived 82.3% of net revenue from international operations in fiscal year 2006 compared to 83.8% in fiscal year 2005. We currently expect our revenue from international operations to increase as a percentage of net revenue due to expansion in China, Eastern Europe, India and Taiwan. We currently operate outside the United States in Vienna, Austria; Hasselt, Belgium; Belo Horizonte, Manaus and Sao Paulo, Brazil; Beijing, Hong Kong, Huangpu, Nanjing, Shanghai, Shenzhen, Suzhou, Tianjin, Wuxi and Yantai, China; Coventry, England; Brest, Lunel and Meung-sur-Loire, France; Jena, Germany; Szombathely and Tiszaujvaros, Hungary; Chennai, Mumbai, Pune and Ranjangaon, India; Bergamo and Marcianise, Italy; Gotemba, Japan; Penang, Malaysia; Chihuahua, Guadalajara and Reynosa, Mexico; Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Bydgoszcz and Kwidzyn, Poland; Ayr and Livingston, Scotland; Singapore City, Singapore; Hsinchu and Taichung, Taiwan; and Uzhgorod, Ukraine. We continually consider additional opportunities to make foreign acquisitions and construct new foreign facilities. Our international operations may be subject to a number of risks, including: • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • less flexible employee relationships which can be difficult and expensive to terminate; • political and economic instability; • inadequate infrastructure for our operations (i.e. lack of adequate power, water, transportation and raw materials); • coordinating our communications and logistics; • risk of governmental expropriation of our property; • less favorable, or relatively undefined, intellectual property laws; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and laws; • longer customer payment cycles and difficulty collecting accounts receivable; • export duties, import controls and trade barriers (including quotas); • adverse trade policies, and adverse changes to those policies; • governmental restrictions on the transfer of funds to us from our operations outside the United States; • burdens of complying with a wide variety of labor practices and foreign laws, including those relating to export and import duties, environmental policies and privacy issues; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could affect local payroll, utility and other expenses; and • inability to utilize net operating losses incurred by our foreign operations against future income in the same jurisdiction. In addition, several of the countries where we operate have emerging or developing economies, which may be subject to greater currency volatility, negative growth, high inflation, limited availability of foreign exchange 22 Table of Contents and other risks. These factors may harm our results of operations, and any measures that we may implement to reduce the effect of volatile currencies and other risks of our international operations may not be effective. In our experience, entry into new international markets requires considerable management time as well as start-up expenses for market development, hiring and establishing office facilities before any significant revenue is generated. As a result, initial operations in a new market may operate at low margins or may be unprofitable. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources.” If we do not manage our growth effectively, our profitability could decline. We are currently experiencing a period of rapid growth in our operations, revenues and employees. These changes have placed considerable additional demands upon our management team and our operational, financial and management information systems. Our ability to manage growth effectively will require us to continue to implement and improve these systems; continue to develop the management skills of our managers and supervisors; and continue to train, motivate and manage our employees. Our failure to effectively manage growth could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. See “Selected Financial Data” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” We may not achieve expected profitability from our acquisitions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully integrate the operations and management of our recent acquisitions. Similarly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to consummate or, if consummated, successfully integrate the operations and management of future acquisitions. Acquisitions involve significant risks, which could have a material adverse effect on us, including: • Financial risks, such as (1) the payment of a purchase price that exceeds the future value that we may realize from the acquired operations and businesses; (2) an increase in our expenses and working capital requirements, which could reduce our return on invested capital; (3) potential known and unknown liabilities of the acquired businesses; (4) costs associated with integrating acquired operations and businesses; (5) the dilutive effect of the issuance of additional equity securities; (6) the incurrence of additional debt; (7) the financial impact of valuing goodwill and other intangible assets involved in any acquisitions, potential future impairment write-downs of goodwill and the amortization of other intangible assets; (8) possible adverse tax and accounting effects; and (9) the risk that we spend substantial amounts purchasing these manufacturing facilities and assume significant contractual and other obligations with no guaranteed levels of revenue or that we may have to close facilities at our cost. • Operating risks, such as (1) the diversion of management’s attention to the assimilation of the businesses to be acquired; (2) the risk that the acquired businesses will fail to maintain the quality of services that we have historically provided; (3) the need to implement financial and other systems and add management resources; (4) the need to maintain customer, supplier or other favorable business relationships of acquired operations and restructure or terminate unfavorable relationships; (5) the potential for deficiencies in internal controls of the acquired operations; (6) the risk that key employees of the acquired businesses will leave after the acquisition; (7) unforeseen difficulties in the acquired operations; and (8) the impact on us of any unionized work force we may acquire or any labor disruptions that might occur. As we expand the scope of our acquisition opportunities beyond those primarily consisting of customers (or potential customers) seeking to divest internal manufacturing operations to manufacturing providers such as us, the risks associated with our acquisitions expand as well, both in terms of the amount of risk we face and the scope of such risks. In particular, the scope of potential liabilities we may have to take on in such acquisitions, as well as the financial benefits expected to be associated with such acquisitions, become less certain. 23 Table of Contents We have acquired and will continue to pursue the acquisition of manufacturing and supply chain management operations. In these acquisitions, the divesting company will typically enter into a supply arrangement with the acquirer. Therefore, the competition for these acquisitions is intense. In addition, certain divesting companies may choose not to consummate these acquisitions with us because of our current supply arrangements with other companies or may require terms and conditions that may impact our profitability. If we are unable to attract and consummate some of these acquisition opportunities at favorable terms, our growth and profitability could be adversely impacted. Arrangements entered into with divesting companies typically involve many risks, including the following: • The integration into our business of the acquired assets and facilities may be time-consuming and costly. • We, rather than the divesting company, may bear the risk of excess capacity. • We may not achieve anticipated cost reductions and efficiencies. • We may be unable to meet the expectations of the divesting company as to volume, product quality, timeliness and cost reductions. • If demand for the divesting company’s products declines, it may reduce the volume of purchases and we may not be able to sufficiently reduce the expenses of operating the facility or use the facility to provide services to other customers. As a result of these and other risks, we may be unable to achieve anticipated levels of profitability under these arrangements, and they may not result in any material revenue or contribute positively to our earnings. Our ability to achieve the expected benefits of the outsourcing opportunities associated with these acquisitions is subject to risks, including our ability to meet volume, product quality, timeliness, and pricing requirements, and our ability to achieve the divesting company’s expected cost reduction. In addition, when acquiring manufacturing operations, we may receive limited commitments to firm production schedules. Accordingly, in these circumstances, we may spend substantial amounts purchasing these manufacturing facilities and assume significant contractual and other obligations with no guaranteed levels of revenue. We may also not achieve expected profitability from these arrangements. As a result of these and other risks, these outsourcing opportunities may not be profitable. We face risks arising from the restructuring of our operations. Over the past few years, we have undertaken initiatives to restructure our business operations with the intention of improving utilization and realizing cost savings in the future. These initiatives have included changing the number and location of our production facilities, largely to align our capacity and infrastructure with current and anticipated customer demand. This alignment includes transferring programs from higher cost geographies to lower cost geographies. The process of restructuring entails, among other activities: moving production between facilities, closing facilities, reducing staff levels, realigning our business processes, and reorganizing our management. We continuously evaluate our operations and cost structure relative to general economic conditions, market demands and cost competitiveness, and our geographic footprint as it relates to our customers’ production requirements. As a result of this ongoing evaluation, we recently initiated a restructuring program to realign our manufacturing capacity in certain higher cost geographies and to properly size our manufacturing sites with perceived current market conditions. We currently estimate that the restructuring program could result in total restructuring and impairment charges in the range of $200.0 million to $250.0 million consisting of pre-tax employee severance and benefit costs, contract termination costs, fixed asset impairment costs, and other related restructuring costs, as well as valuation allowances against net deferred tax assets for certain plants impacted by 24 Table of Contents the current restructuring plan. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006, we recorded restructuring and impairment charges of $81.9 million and valuation allowances of $37.1 million on net deferred tax assets under this program. We expect additional costs related to the restructuring plan to be incurred over the course of fiscal year 2007 and 2008. If we incur additional restructuring related charges, our financial condition and results of operations may suffer. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Results of Operations – Restructuring and Impairment Charges” and Note 11 – “Restructuring and Impairment Charges” to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Restructurings present significant potential risks of events occurring that could adversely affect us, including a decrease in employee morale, delays encountered in finalizing the scope of, and implementing, the restructurings (including extensive consultations concerning potential workforce reductions (particularly in locations outside of the United States)), the failure to achieve targeted cost savings and the failure to meet operational targets and customer requirements due to the loss of employees and any work stoppages that might occur. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for components that are critical to our manufacturing processes. A shortage of these components or an increase in their price could interrupt our operations and reduce our profits. Substantially all of our net revenue is derived from turnkey manufacturing in which we provide materials procurement. While most of our significant long-term customer contracts permit quarterly or other periodic adjustments to pricing based on decreases and increases in component prices and other factors, we may bear the risk of component price increases that occur between any such re-pricings or, if such re-pricing is not permitted, during the balance of the term of the particular customer contract. Accordingly, certain component price increases could adversely affect our gross profit margins. Almost all of the products we manufacture require one or more components that are available from only a single source. Some of these components are allocated from time to time in response to supply shortages. In some cases, supply shortages will substantially curtail production of all assemblies using a particular component. In addition, at various times industry-wide shortages of electronic components have occurred, particularly of memory and logic devices. In the past, such circumstances have produced insignificant levels of short-term interruption of our operations, but could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the future. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Business – Components Procurement.” We may not be able to maintain our engineering, technological and manufacturing process expertise. The markets for our manufacturing and engineering services are characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving process development. The continued success of our business will depend upon our ability to: • hire, retain and expand our qualified engineering and technical personnel; • maintain technological leadership; • develop and market manufacturing services that meet changing customer needs; and • successfully anticipate or respond to technological changes in manufacturing processes on a cost-effective and timely basis. Although we believe that our operations use the assembly and testing technologies, equipment and processes that are currently required by our customers, we cannot be certain that we will develop the capabilities required by our customers in the future. The emergence of new technology, industry standards or customer requirements may render our equipment, inventory or processes obsolete or noncompetitive. In addition, we may have to acquire new assembly and testing technologies and equipment to remain competitive. The acquisition and implementation of new technologies and equipment may require significant expense or capital investment, which 25 Table of Contents could reduce our operating margins and our operating results. In facilities that we establish or acquire, we may not be able to maintain our engineering, technological and manufacturing process expertise. Our failure to anticipate and adapt to our customers’ changing technological needs and requirements or to hire and retain a sufficient number of engineers and maintain our engineering, technological and manufacturing expertise, could have a material adverse effect on our business. If our manufacturing processes and services do not comply with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements, or if we manufacture products containing design or manufacturing defects, demand for our services may decline and we may be subject to liability claims. We manufacture and design products to our customers’ specifications, and, in some cases, our manufacturing processes and facilities may need to comply with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements. For example, medical devices that we manufacture or design, as well as the facilities and manufacturing processes that we use to produce them, are regulated by the Food and Drug Administration and non-US counterparts of this agency. Similarly, items we manufacture for customers in the defense and aerospace industries, as well as the processes we use to produce them, are regulated by the Department of Defense and the Federal Aviation Authority. In addition, our customers’ products and the manufacturing processes that we use to produce them often are highly complex. As a result, products that we manufacture may at times contain manufacturing or design defects, and our manufacturing processes may be subject to errors or not be in compliance with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements. Defects in the products we manufacture or design, whether caused by a design, manufacturing or component failure or error, or deficiencies in our manufacturing processes, may result in delayed shipments to customers or reduced or cancelled customer orders. If these defects or deficiencies are significant, our business reputation may also be damaged. The failure of the products that we manufacture or our manufacturing processes and facilities to comply with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements may subject us to legal fines or penalties and, in some cases, require us to shut down or incur considerable expense to correct a manufacturing process or facility. In addition, these defects may result in liability claims against us or expose us to liability to pay for the recall of a product. The magnitude of such claims may increase as we expand our medical, automotive, and aerospace and defense manufacturing services, as defects in medical devices, automotive components, and aerospace and defense systems could seriously harm or kill users of these products and others. Even if our customers are responsible for the defects, they may not, or may not have resources to, assume responsibility for any costs or liabilities arising from these defects, which could expose us to additional liability claims. Our increasing design services offerings may result in additional exposure to product liability, intellectual property infringement and other claims, in addition to the business risk of being unable to produce the revenues necessary to profit from these services. We have increased our efforts to offer certain design services, primarily those relating to products that we manufacture for our customers, and we now offer design services related to collaborative design manufacturing and turnkey solutions. Providing such services can expose us to different or greater potential liabilities than those we face when providing our regular manufacturing services. With the growth of our design services business, we have increased exposure to potential product liability claims resulting from injuries caused by defects in products we design, as well as potential claims that products we design infringe third-party intellectual property rights. Such claims could subject us to significant liability for damages and, regardless of their merits, could be time-consuming and expensive to resolve. We also may have greater potential exposure from warranty claims, and from product recalls due to problems caused by product design. Costs associated with possible product liability claims, intellectual property infringement claims, and product recalls could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. When providing collaborative design manufacturing or turnkey solutions, we may not be guaranteed revenue needed to recoup or profit from the investment in the resources necessary to design and develop products. Particularly, no revenue may be generated from these efforts if our customers do not approve the designs in a timely manner or at all, or if they do not then purchase anticipated levels of products. Furthermore, contracts may allow the customer to delay or cancel deliveries and may not obligate the customer to 26 Table of Contents any volume of purchases, or may provide for penalties or cancellation of orders if we are late in delivering designs or products. We may even have the responsibility to ensure that products we design satisfy safety and regulatory standards and to obtain any necessary certifications. Failure to timely obtain the necessary approvals or certifications could prevent us from selling these products, which in turn could harm our sales, profitability and reputation. The success of our turnkey activity depends in part on our ability to obtain, protect, and leverage intellectual property rights to our designs. We strive to obtain and protect certain intellectual property rights to our turnkey solutions designs. We believe that having a significant level of protected proprietary technology gives us a competitive advantage in marketing our services. However, we cannot be certain that the measures that we employ will result in protected intellectual property rights or will result in the prevention of unauthorized use of our technology. If we are unable to obtain and protect intellectual property rights embodied within our designs, this could reduce or eliminate the competitive advantages of our proprietary technology, which would harm our business. Intellectual property infringement claims against our customers or us could harm our business. Our turnkey solutions products may compete against the products of other companies, many of whom may own the intellectual property rights underlying those products. As a result, we could become subject to claims of intellectual property infringement. Additionally, customers for our turnkey solutions services typically require that we indemnify them against the risk of intellectual property infringement. If any claims are brought against us or against our customers for such infringement, whether or not these claims have merit, we could be required to expend significant resources in defense of such claims. In the event of such an infringement claim, we may be required to spend a significant amount of money to develop non-infringing alternatives or obtain licenses. We may not be successful in developing such alternatives or obtaining such a license on reasonable terms or at all. If our turnkey solutions products are subject to design defects, our business may be damaged and we may incur significant fees. In our contracts with turnkey solutions customers, we generally provide them with a warranty against defects in our designs. If a turnkey solutions product or component that we design is found to be defective in its design, this may lead to increased warranty claims. Although we have product liability insurance coverage, it may not be available on acceptable terms, in sufficient amounts, or at all. A successful product liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage or any material claim for which insurance coverage was denied or limited and for which indemnification was not available could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on our officers, managers and skilled personnel. Our success depends to a large extent upon the continued services of our executive officers. Generally our employees are not bound by employment or non-competition agreements, and we cannot assure you that we will retain our executive officers and other key employees. We could be seriously harmed by the loss of any of our executive officers. In order to manage our growth, we will need to recruit and retain additional skilled management personnel and if we are not able to do so, our business and our ability to continue to grow could be harmed. In addition, in connection with expanding our turnkey solutions activities, we must attract and retain experienced design engineers. Competition for highly skilled employees is substantial. Our failure to recruit and retain experienced design engineers could limit the growth of our turnkey solutions activities, which could adversely affect our business. 27 Table of Contents Any delay in the implementation of our information systems could disrupt our operations and cause unanticipated increases in our costs. We have completed the installation of an Enterprise Resource Planning system in most of our manufacturing sites, excluding the announced Green Point acquisition sites, and in our corporate location. We are in the process of installing this system in certain of our remaining plants, which will replace the current Manufacturing Resource Planning system, and financial information systems. Any delay in the implementation of these information systems could result in material adverse consequences, including disruption of operations, loss of information and unanticipated increases in costs. Compliance or the failure to comply with current and future environmental regulations could cause us significant expense. We are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous chemicals used during our manufacturing process or requiring design changes or recycling of products we manufacture. If we fail to comply with any present and future regulations, we could be subject to future liabilities, the suspension of production or a prohibition on the sale of products we manufacture. In addition, such regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or could require us to acquire costly equipment, or to incur other significant expenses to comply with environmental regulations, including expenses associated with the recall of any non-compliant product. Our procurement and inventory management activities may also be adversely impacted, as we may need to maintain inventories of two versions of a component, one for industries covered by these new requirements and one for industries not covered. From time to time new regulations are enacted, and it is difficult to anticipate how such regulations will be implemented and enforced. We continue to evaluate the necessary steps for compliance with regulations as they are enacted. For example, in 2003 the European Union enacted the Restriction on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (“RoHS”) and the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (“WEEE”), for implementation in European Union member states. RoHS and WEEE regulate the use of certain hazardous substances in, and require the collection, reuse and recycling of waste from certain products we manufacture. We are aware of similar legislation that is currently in force or is being considered in the United States, as well as other countries, such as Japan and China. RoHS and WEEE are in the process of being implemented by individual countries in the European Union. It is likely that each jurisdiction will interpret RoHS and WEEE differently as they each implement them. We will continue to monitor RoHS and WEEE guidance as it is announced by individual jurisdictions to determine our responsibilities. The incomplete guidance available to us to date suggests that in many instances we will not be directly responsible for compliance with RoHS and WEEE, but that such regulations will likely apply directly to our customers. However, because we manufacture the products and may provide design, including collaborative design services and turnkey solutions, and compliance-related services for our customers, we may at times become contractually or directly subject to such regulations. Also, final guidance from individual jurisdictions may impose different or additional responsibilities upon us. Our failure to comply with any of such regulatory requirements or contractual obligations could result in our being directly or indirectly liable for costs, fines or penalties and third-party claims, and could jeopardize our ability to conduct business in countries in the European Union, and other regions that adopt similar legislation. Certain of our existing stockholders have significant control. At August 31, 2006, our executive officers, directors and certain of their family members collectively beneficially owned 13.3% of our outstanding common stock, of which William D. Morean, our Chairman of the Board, beneficially owned 7.9%. As a result, our executive officers, directors and certain of their family 28 Table of Contents members have significant influence over (1) the election of our Board of Directors, (2) the approval or disapproval of any other matters requiring stockholder approval, and (3) the affairs and policies of Jabil. We are subject to the risk of increased taxes. We base our tax position upon the anticipated nature and conduct of our business and upon our understanding of the tax laws of the various countries in which we have assets or conduct activities. Our tax position, however, is subject to review and possible challenge by taxing authorities and to possible changes in law. We cannot determine in advance the extent to which some jurisdictions may assess additional tax or interest and penalties on such additional taxes. Several countries in which we are located allow for tax holidays or provide other tax incentives to attract and retain business. We have obtained holidays or other incentives where available and practicable. Our taxes could increase if certain tax holidays or incentives are retracted (which in some cases could occur if we fail to satisfy the conditions on which such holidays or incentives are based), or if they are not renewed upon expiration, or tax rates applicable to us in such jurisdictions are otherwise increased. It is anticipated that tax incentives with respect to certain operations will expire within the next four years. However, due to the possibility of changes in existing tax law and our operations, we are unable to predict how these expirations will impact us in the future. In addition, acquisitions may cause our effective tax rate to increase, depending on the jurisdictions in which the acquired operations are located. Our credit rating has recently been downgraded by one of our rating agencies and is subject to further change. Our credit is rated by credit rating agencies. As of November 13, 2006, our 5.875% Senior Notes were rated BBB- by Fitch Ratings (“Fitch”), Baa3 by Moody’s Investor Service (“Moody’s”), and BBB- by Standard and Poor’s Rating Service (“S&P”), which are all considered “investment grade” debt. In response to our earnings release for our third quarter of fiscal year 2006, Moody’s revised its outlook to negative. Subsequently, in response to our announcement of the Taiwan Green Point Enterprises Co., Ltd. (“Green Point”) tender offer and the announcement that we were restating prior fiscal periods to reflect additional stock-based compensation expense, S&P and Fitch each revised their respective outlooks to negative and Moody’s placed our ratings on review for possible downgrade. Further, on February 27, 2007, Moody’s downgraded our 5.875% Senior Notes to a rating of Ba2 and our corporate family rating to a Ba1 due to the related implications of the delayed filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, the stock-based compensation investigation being performed by the Special Committee, increased levels of projected cash needs and the risks associated with the Green Point acquisition, as well as increased levels of debt. See Note 2 – “Stock Option Litigation and Restatements” and Note 17 – “Subsequent Events” to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion on these events. Although the 5.875% Senior Notes continue to be considered “investment grade” debt by S&P and Fitch, the 5.875% Senior Notes are no longer considered “investment grade” debt by Moody’s. The downgrade by Moody’s has increased our cost of capital for borrowings under our revolving credit facilities. Additionally, a further downgrade of our credit rating by two or more of the credit rating agencies may make it more expensive for us to raise additional capital in the future on terms that are acceptable to us or at all; may negatively impact the price of our common stock; and may have other negative implications on our business, many of which are beyond our control. We must refinance or repay our Bridge Facility on or before December 20, 2007 which will require additional financing that we cannot assure you will be available to us on attractive terms unless we issue additional equity. For more than five years, we have financed our operations, capital expenditures and acquisitions with cash flow from operations and indebtedness. As of April 30, 2007, our long-term debt obligations consisted of $871.0 million outstanding under our Bridge Facility, $372.0 million outstanding under our Unsecured Revolver, $300 million outstanding under our 5.875% Senior Notes outstanding and approximately $179.0 outstanding 29 Table of Contents under various bank loans to certain of our foreign subsidiaries. We are currently actively seeking a refinancing of our Bridge Facility. We also have a temporary waiver under our Bridge Facility and Unsecured Revolver of our obligation to file our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q with the SEC until the earlier of August 1, 2007 or 45 days after we receive a notice of default from the trustee or holders of 25% of the principal amount of the 5.875% Senior Notes outstanding. We have also obtained amendments to our Bridge Facility and Unsecured Revolver that allow us to increase the level of our indebtedness to EBITDA ratio, through May 31, 2007, to allow for a greater level of debt to be outstanding to be incurred during the specified periods. We currently anticipate that in order to pay the principal of our Bridge Facility by the maturity date on December 20, 2007, we will have to refinance at least some of our indebtedness and possibly issue additional equity securities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance our indebtedness on attractive terms and conditions, or that we will be able to obtain additional debt financing to repay the entire amount of indebtedness that may become due. If we are unable to refinance indebtedness that is due by incurring other debt, we may be required to issue additional equity securities assets. If we are required to sell equity securities, investors who hold our Common Stock may have their holdings diluted. There can be no assurance as to the terms and prices at which we will be able to sell additional equity securities or that we will be able to sell additional equity securities at all. Should we desire to consummate significant additional acquisition opportunities or undertake significant additional expansion activities, our capital needs would increase and could possibly result in our need to increase available borrowings under our revolving credit facilities or access public or private debt and equity markets. There can be no assurance, however, that we would be successful in raising additional debt or equity on terms that we would consider acceptable. We are subject to risks of currency fluctuations and related hedging operations. A portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Changes in exchange rates among other currencies and the U.S. dollar will affect our cost of sales, operating margins and net revenue. We cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations. We use financial instruments, primarily forward purchase contracts, to economically hedge U.S. dollar and other currency commitments arising from trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable and fixed purchase obligations. If these hedging activities are not successful or we change or reduce these hedging activities in the future, we may experience significant unexpected expenses from fluctuations in exchange rates. We could incur a significant amount of debt in the future. We currently have the ability to borrow up to $500.0 million under our Unsecured Revolver. In addition, we negotiated a $1.0 billion unsecured bridge credit agreement (the “Bridge Facility”) with a syndicate of banks on December 21, 2006. See Note 17 – “Subsequent Events” to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion on the Bridge Facility. We could incur additional indebtedness in the future in the form of bank loans, notes or convertible securities. An increase in the level of our indebtedness, among other things, could: • make it difficult for us to obtain any necessary financing in the future for other acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, our business; and • make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet future debt service obligations. An adverse change in the interest rates for our borrowings could adversely affect our financial condition. We pay interest on outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facilities and certain other long term debt obligations at interest rates that fluctuate based upon changes in various base interest rates. An adverse change in the base rates upon which our interest rates are determined could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 30 Table of Contents We are exposed to intangible asset risk. We have recorded intangible assets, including goodwill, which are attributable to business acquisitions. We are required to perform goodwill and intangible asset impairment tests at least on an annual basis and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable from estimated future cash flows. As a result of our annual and other periodic evaluations, we may determine that the intangible asset values need to be written down to their fair values, which could result in material charges that could be adverse to our operating results and financial position. Customer relationships with emerging companies may present more risks than with established companies. Customer relationships with emerging companies present special risks because such companies do not have an extensive product history. As a result, there is less demonstration of market acceptance of their products making it harder for us to anticipate needs and requirements than with established customers. In addition, due to the current economic environment, additional funding for such companies may be more difficult to obtain and these customer relationships may not continue or materialize to the extent we planned or we previously experienced. This tightening of financing for start-up customers, together with many start-up customers’ lack of prior earnings and unproven product markets increase our credit risk, especially in accounts receivable and inventories. Although we perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and adjust our allowance for doubtful accounts receivable for all customers, including start-up customers, based on the information available, these allowances may not be adequate. This risk exists for any new emerging company customers in the future. Our stock price may be volatile. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially in the past and could fluctuate substantially in the future, based on a variety of factors, including future announcements covering us or our key customers or competitors, government regulations, litigation, changes in earnings estimates by analysts, fluctuations in quarterly operating results, or general conditions in our industry and the aerospace, automotive, computing, consumer, defense, instrumentation, medical, networking, peripherals, storage and telecommunications industries. Furthermore, stock prices for many companies and high technology companies in particular, fluctuate widely for reasons that may be unrelated to their operating results. Those fluctuations and general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions or international currency fluctuations and demand for our services, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our charter documents and state law may make it harder for others to obtain control of us even though some shareholders might consider such a development to be favorable. Our shareholder rights plan, provisions of our amended certificate of incorporation and the Delaware Corporation Laws may delay, inhibit or prevent someone from gaining control of us through a tender offer, business combination, proxy contest or some other method. These provisions may adversely impact our shareholders because they may decrease the possibility of a transaction in which our shareholders receive an amount of consideration in exchange for their shares that is at a significant premium to the then current market price of our shares. These provisions include: • a “poison pill” shareholder rights plan; • a statutory restriction on the ability of shareholders to take action by less than unanimous written consent; and • a statutory restriction on business combinations with some types of interested shareholders. 31 Table of Contents Changes in the securities laws and regulations have increased, and are likely to continue to increase our costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 required changes in some of our corporate governance, securities disclosure and compliance practices. In response to the requirements of that Act, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange promulgated new rules on a variety of subjects. Compliance with these new rules has increased our legal and financial and accounting costs, and we expect these increased costs to continue for the foreseeable future. These developments have made it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and have faced accepting reduced coverage or incurring substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. All of these developments may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our Board of Directors or qualified executive officers. Due to inherent limitations, there can be no assurance that our system of disclosure and internal controls and procedures will be successful in preventing all errors or fraud, or in informing management of all material information in timely manner. Our management, including our CEO and CFO, does not expect that our disclosure controls and internal controls and procedures will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system reflects that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the company have been or will be detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur simply because of error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the control. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions; over time, a control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be detected. If we receive other than an unqualified opinion on the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting as of August 31, 2007 and future year-ends as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of your shares. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted rules requiring public companies to include an annual report on internal control over financial reporting reports on Form 10-K that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing the company’s financial statements must attest to, and report on, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. The independent registered public accounting firm KPMG LLP issued an unqualified opinion on the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting as of August 31, 2006. While we continuously conduct a rigorous review of our internal control over financial reporting in order to assure compliance with the Section 404 requirements, if our independent auditors interpret the Section 404 requirements and the related rules and regulations differently from us or if our independent auditors are not satisfied with our internal control over financial reporting or with the level at which it is documented, operated or reviewed, they may decline to attest to management’s assessment or issue a qualified report. A qualified opinion could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. 32 Table of Contents In addition, we have spent a significant amount of resources in complying with Section 404’s requirements. For the foreseeable future, we will likely continue to spend substantial amounts complying with Section 404’s requirements, as well as improving and enhancing our internal control over financial reporting. There are inherent uncertainties involved in estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements in accordance with US GAAP. Any changes in estimates, judgments and assumptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. The consolidated and condensed consolidated financial statements included in the periodic reports we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“US GAAP”). The preparation of financial statements in accordance with US GAAP involves making estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets (including intangible assets), liabilities and related reserves, revenues, expenses and income. Estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently subject to change in the future, and any such changes could result in corresponding changes to the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and income. Any such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved written comments from the SEC staff regarding our periodic or current reports under the Act. 33 Table of Contents 