Risk Factors – We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from our international operations, which may be subject to a number of risks and often require more management time and expense to achieve profitability than our domestic operations.” We have acquired and may continue to pursue the acquisition of manufacturing and supply chain management operations from our customers (or potential customers). In these acquisitions, the divesting 20 Table of Contents company will typically enter into a supply arrangement with the acquirer. Therefore, the competition for these acquisitions is intense. In addition, certain divesting companies may choose not to consummate these acquisitions with us because of our current supply arrangements with other companies or may require terms and conditions that may impact our profitability. If we are unable to attract and consummate some of these acquisition opportunities at favorable terms, our growth and profitability could be adversely impacted. In addition to those risks listed above, arrangements entered into with these divesting companies typically involve other certain risks, including the following: • The integration into our business of the acquired assets and facilities may be time-consuming and costly. • We, rather than the divesting company, may bear the risk of excess capacity. • We may not achieve anticipated cost reductions and efficiencies. • We may be unable to meet the expectations of the divesting company as to volume, product quality, timeliness and cost reductions. • If demand for the divesting company’s products declines, it may reduce the volume of purchases and we may not be able to sufficiently reduce the expenses of operating the facility or use the facility to provide services to other customers. As a result of these and other risks, we may be unable to achieve anticipated levels of profitability under these arrangements, and they may not result in any material revenue or contribute positively to our earnings. Our ability to achieve the expected benefits of the outsourcing opportunities associated with these acquisitions is subject to risks, including our ability to meet volume, product quality, timeliness, and pricing requirements, and our ability to achieve the divesting company’s expected cost reduction. In addition, when acquiring manufacturing operations, we may receive limited commitments to firm production schedules. Accordingly, in these circumstances, we may spend substantial amounts purchasing these manufacturing facilities and assume significant contractual and other obligations with no guaranteed levels of revenue. We may also not achieve expected profitability from these arrangements. As a result of these and other risks, these outsourcing opportunities may not be profitable. We are expanding the primary scope of our acquisitions strategy beyond our customers and potential customers to include companies seeking to divest their internal manufacturing operations to manufacturing providers such as us. The amount and scope of the risks associated with acquisitions of this type extend beyond those that we have traditionally faced in making acquisitions. These extended risks include greater uncertainties in the financial benefits and potential liabilities associated with this expanded base of acquisitions. We face risks arising from the restructuring of our operations. Over the past few years, we have undertaken initiatives to restructure our business operations with the intention of improving utilization and realizing cost savings in the future. These initiatives have included changing the number and location of our production facilities, largely to align our capacity and infrastructure with current and anticipated customer demand. This alignment includes transferring programs from higher cost geographies to lower cost geographies. The process of restructuring entails, among other activities: moving production between facilities, closing facilities, reducing staff levels, realigning our business processes, and reorganizing our management. We continuously evaluate our operations and cost structure relative to general economic conditions, market demands and cost competitiveness, and our geographic footprint as it relates to our customers’ production requirements. As a result of this ongoing evaluation, we recently initiated a restructuring program to realign our manufacturing capacity in certain higher cost geographies and to properly size our manufacturing sites with 21 Table of Contents perceived current market conditions. We currently estimate that the restructuring program could result in total restructuring and impairment charges of approximately $250.0 million consisting of pre-tax employee severance and benefit costs, contract termination costs, fixed asset impairment costs, and other related restructuring costs, as well as valuation allowances against net deferred tax assets for certain plants impacted by the current restructuring plan. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006, we recorded restructuring and impairment charges of $81.9 million and valuation allowances of $37.1 million on net deferred tax assets under this program. During fiscal year 2007, we recorded aggregate restructuring and impairment charges of $72.4 million and reduced our valuation allowance against net deferred tax assets by $2.0 million to an aggregate amount of $35.1 million. We expect additional costs related to the restructuring plan to be incurred primarily over the course of fiscal year 2008 with certain contract termination costs to be incurred through fiscal year 2011. If we incur additional restructuring related charges, our financial condition and results of operations may suffer. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Results of Operations – Restructuring and Impairment Charges” and Note 10 – “Restructuring and Impairment Charges” to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We expect that in the future we may continue to transfer certain of our operations to lower cost geographies, which may require us to take additional restructuring charges. Restructurings present significant potential risks of events occurring that could adversely affect us, including a decrease in employee morale, delays encountered in finalizing the scope of, and implementing, the restructurings (including extensive consultations concerning potential workforce reductions (particularly in locations outside of the United States)), the failure to achieve targeted cost savings and the failure to meet operational targets and customer requirements due to the loss of employees and any work stoppages that might occur. These risks are further complicated by our extensive international operations, which subject us to different legal and regulatory requirements that govern the extent, and the speed, of our ability to reduce our manufacturing capacity and workforce. In addition, we may have to obtain agreements from our affected customers for the re-location of our facilities in certain instances. Obtaining these agreements, along with the volatility in our customers’ demand, can further delay restructuring activities. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for components that are critical to our manufacturing processes. A shortage of these components or an increase in their price could interrupt our operations and reduce our profits. Substantially all of our net revenue is derived from turnkey manufacturing in which we provide materials procurement. While most of our significant long-term customer contracts permit quarterly or other periodic adjustments to pricing based on decreases and increases in component prices and other factors, we may bear the risk of component price increases that occur between any such re-pricings or, if such re-pricing is not permitted, during the balance of the term of the particular customer contract. Accordingly, certain component price increases could adversely affect our gross profit margins. Almost all of the products we manufacture require one or more components that are available from only a single source. Some of these components are allocated from time to time in response to supply shortages. In some cases, supply shortages will substantially curtail production of all assemblies using a particular component. In addition, at various times industry-wide shortages of electronic components have occurred, particularly of memory and logic devices. In the past, such circumstances have produced insignificant levels of short-term interruption of our operations, but could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the future. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Business – Components Procurement.” We may not be able to maintain our engineering, technological and manufacturing process expertise. The markets for our manufacturing and engineering services are characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving process development. The continued success of our business will depend upon our ability to: • hire, retain and expand our qualified engineering and technical personnel; • maintain technological leadership; 22 Table of Contents • develop and market manufacturing services that meet changing customer needs; and • successfully anticipate or respond to technological changes in manufacturing processes on a cost-effective and timely basis. Although we believe that our operations use the assembly and testing technologies, equipment and processes that are currently required by our customers, we cannot be certain that we will develop the capabilities required by our customers in the future. The emergence of new technology, industry standards or customer requirements may render our equipment, inventory or processes obsolete or noncompetitive. In addition, we may have to acquire new assembly and testing technologies and equipment to remain competitive. The acquisition and implementation of new technologies and equipment may require significant expense or capital investment, which could reduce our operating margins and our operating results. In facilities that we establish or acquire, we may not be able to maintain our engineering, technological and manufacturing process expertise. Our failure to anticipate and adapt to our customers’ changing technological needs and requirements or to hire and retain a sufficient number of engineers and maintain our engineering, technological and manufacturing expertise, could have a material adverse effect on our business. If our manufacturing processes and services do not comply with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements, or if we manufacture products containing design or manufacturing defects, demand for our services may decline and we may be subject to liability claims. We manufacture and design products to our customers’ specifications, and, in some cases, our manufacturing processes and facilities may need to comply with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements. For example, medical devices that we manufacture or design, as well as the facilities and manufacturing processes that we use to produce them, are regulated by the Food and Drug Administration and non-U.S. counterparts of this agency. Similarly, items we manufacture for customers in the defense and aerospace industries, as well as the processes we use to produce them, are regulated by the Department of Defense and the Federal Aviation Authority. In addition, our customers’ products and the manufacturing processes that we use to produce them often are highly complex. As a result, products that we manufacture may at times contain manufacturing or design defects, and our manufacturing processes may be subject to errors or not be in compliance with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements. Defects in the products we manufacture or design, whether caused by a design, manufacturing or component failure or error, or deficiencies in our manufacturing processes, may result in delayed shipments to customers or reduced or cancelled customer orders. If these defects or deficiencies are significant, our business reputation may also be damaged. The failure of the products that we manufacture or our manufacturing processes and facilities to comply with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements may subject us to legal fines or penalties and, in some cases, require us to shut down or incur considerable expense to correct a manufacturing process or facility. In addition, these defects may result in liability claims against us or expose us to liability to pay for the recall of a product. The magnitude of such claims may increase as we expand our medical, automotive, and aerospace and defense manufacturing services, as defects in medical devices, automotive components, and aerospace and defense systems could seriously harm or kill users of these products and others. Even if our customers are responsible for the defects, they may not, or may not have resources to, assume responsibility for any costs or liabilities arising from these defects, which could expose us to additional liability claims. Our regular manufacturing process and services may result in exposure to intellectual property infringement and other claims. Providing manufacturing services can expose us to potential claims that the product design or manufacturing processes infringe third party intellectual property rights. Even though many of our manufacturing services contracts generally require our customers to indemnify us for infringement claims relating to the product specifications and designs, a particular customer may not, or may not have the resources to assume responsibility for such claims. In addition, we may be responsible for claims that our manufacturing processes or components 23 Table of Contents used in manufacturing infringe third party intellectual property rights. Infringement claims could subject us to significant liability for damages, and potentially injunctive action and, regardless of merits, could be time-consuming and expensive to resolve. Our increasing design services offerings may result in additional exposure to product liability, intellectual property infringement and other claims, in addition to the business risk of being unable to produce the revenues necessary to profit from these services. We have increased our efforts to offer certain design services, primarily those relating to products that we manufacture for our customers, and we now offer design services related to collaborative design manufacturing and turnkey solutions. Providing such services can expose us to different or greater potential liabilities than those we face when providing our regular manufacturing services. With the growth of our design services business, we have increased exposure to potential product liability claims resulting from injuries caused by defects in products we design, as well as potential claims that products we design or processes we use infringe third-party intellectual property rights. Such claims could subject us to significant liability for damages, subject the infringing portion of our business to injunction and, regardless of their merits, could be time-consuming and expensive to resolve. We also may have greater potential exposure from warranty claims, and from product recalls due to problems caused by product design. Costs associated with possible product liability claims, intellectual property infringement claims, and product recalls could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. When providing collaborative design manufacturing or turnkey solutions, we may not be guaranteed revenue needed to recoup or profit from the investment in the resources necessary to design and develop products. Particularly, no revenue may be generated from these efforts if our customers do not approve the designs in a timely manner or at all, or if they do not then purchase anticipated levels of products. Furthermore, contracts may allow the customer to delay or cancel deliveries and may not obligate the customer to any volume of purchases, or may provide for penalties or cancellation of orders if we are late in delivering designs or products. We may even have the responsibility to ensure that products we design satisfy safety and regulatory standards and to obtain any necessary certifications. Failure to timely obtain the necessary approvals or certifications could prevent us from selling these products, which in turn could harm our sales, profitability and reputation. The success of our turnkey solution activities depends in part on our ability to obtain, protect, and leverage intellectual property rights to our designs. We strive to obtain and protect certain intellectual property rights to our turnkey solutions designs. We believe that having a significant level of protected proprietary technology gives us a competitive advantage in marketing our services. However, we cannot be certain that the measures that we employ will result in protected intellectual property rights or will result in the prevention of unauthorized use of our technology. If we are unable to obtain and protect intellectual property rights embodied within our designs, this could reduce or eliminate the competitive advantages of our proprietary technology, which would harm our business. Intellectual property infringement claims against our customers or us could harm our business. Our turnkey solutions products and the products of our customers may compete against the products of other companies, many of whom may own the intellectual property rights underlying those products. Patent clearance or licensing activities, if any, may be inadequate to anticipate and avoid third party claims. As a result, in addition to the risk that we could become subject to claims of intellectual property infringement, our customers could become the subject of infringement claims. Additionally, customers for our turnkey solutions services typically require that we indemnify them against the risk of intellectual property infringement. If any claims are brought against us or against our customers for such infringement, whether or not these claims have merit, we could be required to expend significant resources in defense of such claims. In the event of a claim, we may be required to spend a significant amount of money to develop non-infringing alternatives or obtain licenses. We may not be successful in developing such alternatives or obtaining such a license on reasonable terms or at all. 24 Table of Contents Our customers may be required to or decide to discontinue product which are alleged to be infringing rather than face continued costs of defending the infringement claims, and such discontinuance may result in a significant decrease in our business. If our turnkey solutions products are subject to design defects, our business may be damaged and we may incur significant fees. In our contracts with turnkey solutions customers, we generally provide them with a warranty against defects in our designs. If a turnkey solutions product or component that we design is found to be defective in its design, this may lead to increased warranty claims. Although we have product liability insurance coverage, it may not be available on acceptable terms, in sufficient amounts, or at all. A successful product liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage or any material claim for which insurance coverage was denied or limited and for which indemnification was not available could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on our officers, managers and skilled personnel. Our success depends to a large extent upon the continued services of our executive officers and other skilled personnel. Generally our employees are not bound by employment or non-competition agreements, and we cannot assure you that we will retain our executive officers and other key employees. We could be seriously harmed by the loss of any of our executive officers. In order to manage our growth, we will need to recruit and retain additional skilled management personnel and if we are not able to do so, our business and our ability to continue to grow could be harmed. In addition, in connection with expanding our turnkey solutions activities, we must attract and retain experienced design engineers. Competition for highly skilled employees is substantial. Our failure to recruit and retain experienced design engineers could limit the growth of our turnkey solutions activities, which could adversely affect our business. Any delay in the implementation of our information systems could disrupt our operations and cause unanticipated increases in our costs. We have completed the installation of an Enterprise Resource Planning system in most of our manufacturing sites, excluding the Green Point sites, and in our corporate location. We are in the process of installing this system in certain of our remaining plants, including certain Green Point sites, which will replace the current Manufacturing Resource Planning system, and financial information systems. Any delay in the implementation of these information systems could result in material adverse consequences, including disruption of operations, loss of information and unanticipated increases in costs. Compliance or the failure to comply with current and future environmental laws or regulations could cause us significant expense. We are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous chemicals used during our manufacturing process or requiring design changes or recycling of products we manufacture. If we fail to comply with any present and future regulations, we could be subject to future liabilities, the suspension of production, or prohibitions on sales of products we manufacture. In addition, such regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or could require us to acquire costly equipment, or to incur other significant expenses to comply with environmental regulations, including expenses associated with the recall of any non-compliant product or with changes in our procurement and inventory management activities. Certain environmental laws impose liability for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on an owner, occupier or operator of real estate, even if such person or company was unaware of or not responsible for the presence of such substances. Soil and groundwater contamination may have occurred at some of our facilities. From time to time we investigate, remediate and monitor soil and groundwater 25 Table of Contents contamination at certain of our operating sites. In certain instances where contamination existed prior to our ownership or occupation of a site, landlords or former owners have retained some contractual responsibility for contamination and remediation. However, failure of such persons to perform those obligations could result in our Company being required to remediate such contamination. As a result, we may incur clean-up costs in such potential removal or remediation efforts. From time to time new regulations are enacted, and it is difficult to anticipate how such regulations will be implemented and enforced. We continue to evaluate the necessary steps for compliance with regulations as they are enacted. For example, in 2003 the European Union enacted the Restriction on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (“RoHS”) and the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (“WEEE”), for implementation in each country that is a member of the European Union. RoHS and WEEE require those countries to regulate the use of certain hazardous substances in, and the collection, reuse and recycling of waste from certain products that use or generate electricity. In some cases, different jurisdictions may have different interpretations of RoHS and WEEE. We are also aware of similar legislation that is currently in force or is being considered in the United States, as well as other countries, such as Japan, Korea, Argentina and China. We will continue to monitor these developments to determine our responsibilities. Because we manufacture the products and may provide design, including collaborative design services and turnkey solutions, and compliance-related services for our customers, we may at times become contractually or directly subject to such regulations. Our failure to comply with any applicable regulatory requirements or with contractual obligations could result in our being directly or indirectly liable for costs, fines or penalties and third-party claims, and could jeopardize our ability to conduct business in the jurisdictions implementing them. In addition, as global warming issues become more prevalent, the U.S. and foreign governments are beginning to respond to these issues. This increasing governmental focus on global warming may result in new environmental regulations that may negatively affect us, our suppliers, and our customers. This could cause us to incur additional direct costs in complying with any new environmental regulations, as well as increased indirect costs resulting from our customers, suppliers, or both incurring additional compliance costs that get passed on to us. These costs may adversely impact our operations and financial condition. Certain of our existing stockholders have significant control. At August 31, 2007, our executive officers, directors and certain of their family members collectively beneficially owned 13.5% of our outstanding common stock, of which William D. Morean, our Chairman of the Board, beneficially owned 7.8%. As a result, our executive officers, directors and certain of their family members have significant influence over (1) the election of our Board of Directors, (2) the approval or disapproval of any other matters requiring stockholder approval and (3) the affairs and policies of Jabil. We are subject to the risk of increased taxes. We base our tax position upon the anticipated nature and conduct of our business and upon our understanding of the tax laws of the various countries in which we have assets or conduct activities. Our tax position, however, is subject to review and possible challenge by taxing authorities and to possible changes in law. We cannot determine in advance the extent to which some jurisdictions may assess additional tax or interest and penalties on such additional taxes. In addition, our effective tax rate may be increased by the generation of higher income in countries with higher tax rates, or changes in local tax rates. For example, China passed a new unified enterprise income tax law which is expected to take effect on January 1, 2008, which may result in a higher tax rate on operations in China. Several countries in which we are located allow for tax holidays or provide other tax incentives to attract and retain business. We have obtained holidays or other incentives where available and practicable. Our taxes 26 Table of Contents could increase if certain tax holidays or incentives are retracted (which in some cases could occur if we fail to satisfy the conditions on which such holidays or incentives are based), or if they are not renewed upon expiration, or tax rates applicable to us in such jurisdictions are otherwise increased. It is anticipated that tax incentives with respect to certain operations will expire within the next two years. However, due to the possibility of changes in existing tax law and our operations, we are unable to predict how these expirations will impact us in the future. In addition, acquisitions may cause our effective tax rate to increase, depending on the jurisdictions in which the acquired operations are located. Our credit rating has recently been downgraded by our rating agencies and is subject to further change. Our credit is rated by credit rating agencies. As of August 31, 2007, our 5.875% Senior Notes were rated BBB- by Fitch Ratings (“Fitch”), Ba1 by Moody’s Investor Service (“Moody’s”), and BBB- by Standard and Poor’s Rating Service (“S&P”). Subsequently, on October 12, 2007, Fitch downgraded our 5.875% Senior Notes to a rating of BB+. Although the 5.875% Senior Notes continue to be considered “investment grade” debt by S&P, the 5.875% Senior Notes are not considered “investment grade” debt by Moody’s or Fitch. These recent downgrades, along with any potential future negative change in our credit rating, may make it more expensive for us to raise additional capital in the future on terms that are acceptable to us, if at all; may negatively impact the price of our common stock; and may have other negative implications on our business, many of which are beyond our control. We must refinance or repay our Bridge Facility on or before December 20, 2007 which will require additional financing that we cannot assure you will be available to us on attractive terms unless we issue additional equity. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2007, we entered into a $1.0 billion unsecured bridge credit agreement (“Bridge Facility”) with a syndicate of banks which expires on December 20, 2007. We are currently actively seeking a refinancing of our Bridge Facility. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007, we entered into an amended and restated senior unsecured five year credit agreement which replaced a five year $500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks. The agreement provides for a revolving credit facility in the initial amount of $800.0 million, subject to potential increases up to $1.0 billion, and provides for a term loan in the amount of $400.0 million (collectively, the “Revolving Credit Facility”). During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007, $400.0 million was drawn under the term portion of the Revolving Credit Facility which has been used toward repayment of the Bridge Facility. As of August 31, 2007, our debt obligations consisted of $400.0 million outstanding under our Bridge Facility, $300.0 million in principal amount outstanding under our seven year 5.875% senior notes (“5.875% Senior Notes”), $400.0 million outstanding under our Revolving Credit Facility and $165.0 million outstanding under various bank loans to certain of our foreign subsidiaries and outstanding under various other debt obligations. See Note 8 – “Notes Payable, Long-Term Debt and Long-Term Lease Obligations” to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We currently anticipate that in order to pay the principal of our Bridge Facility by the maturity date on December 20, 2007, we will have to refinance at least some of our indebtedness. There can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance our indebtedness on attractive terms and conditions, or that we will be able to obtain additional debt financing to repay the entire amount of indebtedness that may become due. If we are unable to refinance indebtedness that is due by incurring other debt, we may be required to issue additional equity securities assets. If we are required to sell equity securities, investors who hold our common stock may have their holdings diluted. There can be no assurance as to the terms and prices at which we will be able to sell additional equity securities or that we will be able to sell additional equity securities at all. Should we desire to consummate significant additional acquisition opportunities or undertake significant additional expansion activities, our capital needs would increase and could possibly result in our need to increase available borrowings under our revolving credit facilities or access public or private debt and equity markets. There can be no assurance, however, that we would be successful in raising additional debt or equity on terms that we would consider acceptable. 27 Table of Contents We also could incur a significant amount of debt in the future. We currently have the ability to borrow up to $800.0 million under our Revolving Credit Facility. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources” for further discussion of the Revolving Credit Facility. We could incur additional indebtedness in the future in the form of bank loans, notes or convertible securities. An increase in the level of our indebtedness, among other things, could: • make it difficult for us to obtain any necessary financing in the future for other acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, our business; and • make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet future debt service obligations. We are subject to risks of currency fluctuations and related hedging operations. A portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Changes in exchange rates among other currencies and the U.S. dollar will affect our cost of sales, operating margins and net revenue. We cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations. We use financial instruments, primarily forward purchase contracts to economically hedge U.S. dollar and other currency commitments arising from trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable and fixed purchase obligations. If these hedging activities are not successful or we change or reduce these hedging activities in the future, we may experience significant unexpected expenses from fluctuations in exchange rates. An adverse change in the interest rates for our borrowings could adversely affect our financial condition. We pay interest on outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facilities and certain other long term debt obligations at interest rates that fluctuate based upon changes in various base interest rates. An adverse change in the base rates upon which our interest rates are determined could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We are exposed to intangible asset risk. We have recorded intangible assets, including goodwill, which are attributable to business acquisitions. We are required to perform goodwill and intangible asset impairment tests at least on an annual basis and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable from estimated future cash flows. As a result of our annual and other periodic evaluations, we may determine that the intangible asset values need to be written down to their fair values, which could result in material charges that could be adverse to our operating results and financial position. Customer relationships with emerging companies may present more risks than with established companies. Customer relationships with emerging companies present special risks because such companies do not have an extensive product history. As a result, there is less demonstration of market acceptance of their products making it harder for us to anticipate needs and requirements than with established customers. In addition, due to the current economic environment, additional funding for such companies may be more difficult to obtain and these customer relationships may not continue or materialize to the extent we planned or we previously experienced. This tightening of financing for start-up customers, together with many start-up customers’ lack of prior earnings and unproven product markets increase our credit risk, especially in accounts receivable and inventories. Although we perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and adjust our allowance for 28 Table of Contents doubtful accounts receivable for all customers, including start-up customers, based on the information available, these allowances may not be adequate. This risk exists for any new emerging company customers in the future. Our stock price may be volatile. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially in the past and could fluctuate substantially in the future, based on a variety of factors, including future announcements covering us or our key customers or competitors, government regulations, litigation, changes in earnings estimates by analysts, fluctuations in quarterly operating results, or general conditions in our industry and the aerospace, automotive, computing, consumer, defense, instrumentation, medical, networking, peripherals, storage and telecommunications industries. Furthermore, stock prices for many companies and high technology companies in particular, fluctuate widely for reasons that may be unrelated to their operating results. Those fluctuations and general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions or international currency fluctuations and demand for our services, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our charter documents and state law may make it harder for others to obtain control of us even though some shareholders might consider such a development to be favorable. Our shareholder rights plan, provisions of our amended certificate of incorporation and the Delaware Corporation Laws may delay, inhibit or prevent someone from gaining control of us through a tender offer, business combination, proxy contest or some other method. These provisions may adversely impact our shareholders because they may decrease the possibility of a transaction in which our shareholders receive an amount of consideration in exchange for their shares that is at a significant premium to the then current market price of our shares. These provisions include: • a “poison pill” shareholder rights plan; • a statutory restriction on the ability of shareholders to take action by less than unanimous written consent; and • a statutory restriction on business combinations with some types of interested shareholders. Changes in the securities laws and regulations have increased, and are likely to continue to increase our costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 required changes in some of our corporate governance, securities disclosure and compliance practices. In response to the requirements of that Act, the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange promulgated new rules on a variety of subjects. Compliance with these new rules has increased our legal and financial and accounting costs, and we expect these increased costs to continue for the foreseeable future. These developments have made it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we have faced accepting reduced coverage or incurring substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. All of these developments may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our Board of Directors or qualified executive officers. Due to inherent limitations, there can be no assurance that our system of disclosure and internal controls and procedures will be successful in preventing all errors or fraud, or in informing management of all material information in timely manner. Our management, including our CEO and CFO, does not expect that our disclosure controls and internal controls and procedures will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system reflects that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation 29 Table of Contents of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the company have been or will be detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur simply because of error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the control. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions; over time, a control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be detected. If we receive other than an unqualified opinion on the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting as of August 31, 2008 and future year-ends as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of your shares. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include an annual report on internal control over financial reporting reports on Form 10-K that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing the company’s financial statements must attest to, and report on, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. The independent registered public accounting firm KPMG LLP issued an unqualified opinion on the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting as of August 31, 2007. While we continuously conduct a rigorous review of our internal control over financial reporting in order to assure compliance with the Section 404 requirements, if our independent auditors interpret the Section 404 requirements and the related rules and regulations differently from us or if our independent auditors are not satisfied with our internal control over financial reporting or with the level at which it is documented, operated or reviewed, they may decline to attest to management’s assessment or issue a qualified report. A qualified opinion could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. In addition, we have spent a significant amount of resources in complying with Section 404’s requirements. For the foreseeable future, we will likely continue to spend substantial amounts complying with Section 404’s requirements, as well as improving and enhancing our internal control over financial reporting. There are inherent uncertainties involved in estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Any changes in estimates, judgments and assumptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. The consolidated and condensed consolidated financial statements included in the periodic reports we file with the SEC are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”). The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP involves making estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets (including intangible assets), liabilities and related reserves, revenues, expenses and income. Estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently subject to change in the future, and any such changes could result in corresponding changes to the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and income. Any such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have not received any written comments from the SEC staff regarding our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act of 1934 that were received on or before the date that is 180 days before the end of our 2007 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 30 Table of Contents 