Risk Factors – We derive a majority of our revenue from our international operations, which may be subject to a number of risks and often require more management time and expense to achieve profitability than our domestic operations.” We have acquired and may continue to pursue the acquisition of manufacturing and supply chain management operations from our customers (or potential customers). In these acquisitions, the divesting company will typically enter into a supply arrangement with the acquirer. Therefore, our competitors often also pursue these acquisitions. In addition, certain divesting companies may choose not to offer to sell their operations to us because of our current supply arrangements with other companies or may require terms and conditions that may impact our profitability. If we are unable to attract and consummate some of these acquisition opportunities at favorable terms, our growth and profitability could be adversely impacted. In addition to those risks listed above, arrangements entered into with these divesting companies typically involve certain other risks, including the following: • the integration into our business of the acquired assets and facilities may be time-consuming and costly; • we, rather than the divesting company, may bear the risk of excess capacity; • we may not achieve anticipated cost reductions and efficiencies; • we may be unable to meet the expectations of the divesting company as to volume, product quality, timeliness, pricing requirements and cost reductions; and • if demand for the divesting company’s products declines, it may reduce its volume of purchases and we may not be able to sufficiently reduce the expenses of operating the facility we acquired from it or use such facility to provide services to other customers. In addition, when acquiring manufacturing operations, we may receive limited commitments to firm production schedules. Accordingly, in these circumstances, we may spend substantial amounts purchasing these manufacturing facilities and assume significant contractual and other obligations with no or insufficient guaranteed levels of revenue. We may also not achieve expected profitability from these arrangements. As a result of these and other risks, these outsourcing opportunities may not be profitable. We have expanded the primary scope of our acquisitions strategy beyond focusing on acquisition opportunities presented by companies divesting internal manufacturing operations. The more recent trend focuses on pursuing opportunities to acquire smaller Electronic Manufacturing Services (“EMS”) competitors who are focused on our key growth areas which include specialized manufacturing, aftermarket services and/or design operations and other acquisition opportunities complementary to our services offerings. The primary goals of our acquisition strategy are to complement our current capabilities, diversify our business into new industry sectors and with new customers and expand the scope of the services we can offer to our customers. The amount and scope of the risks associated with acquisitions of this type extend beyond those that we have traditionally faced in making acquisitions. These extended risks include greater uncertainties in the financial benefits and potential liabilities associated with this expanded base of acquisitions. We face risks arising from the restructuring of our operations. Over the past few years, we have undertaken initiatives to restructure our business operations with the intention of improving utilization and realizing cost savings in the future. These initiatives have included changing the number and location of our production facilities, largely to align our capacity and infrastructure with current and anticipated customer demand. This alignment includes transferring programs from higher cost geographies to lower cost geographies. The process of restructuring entails, among other activities, moving production between facilities, closing facilities, reducing the level of staff, realigning our business processes and reorganizing our management. We continuously evaluate our operations and cost structure relative to general economic conditions, market demands, tax rates, cost competitiveness and our geographic footprint as it relates to our customers’ production requirements. As a result of this ongoing evaluation, we have initiated a restructuring plan that was approved by our Board of Directors in fiscal year 2013 (the “2013 Restructuring Plan”). See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Results of Operations – Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2013 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2012 – Restructuring and Related Charges” and Note 13 – “Restructuring and Related Charges” to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. In addition, we could initiate future restructuring plans. If we incur restructuring charges related to the 2013 Restructuring Plan, or in connection with any potential future restructuring program, in addition to those charges that we currently expect to incur, our financial condition and results of operations may suffer. 19 Table of Contents Restructurings present significant potential risks of events occurring that could adversely affect us, including a decrease in employee morale, delays encountered in finalizing the scope of, and implementing, the restructurings (including extensive consultations concerning potential workforce reductions and obtaining agreements from our affected customers for the relocation of our facilities in certain instances), the failure to achieve targeted cost savings, the failure to meet operational targets and customer requirements due to the loss of employees and any work stoppages that might occur and the strain placed on our financial and management control systems and resources. These risks are further complicated by our extensive international operations, which subject us to different legal and regulatory requirements that govern the extent and speed of our ability to reduce our manufacturing capacity and workforce. In addition, the current global economic conditions may change how governments regulate restructuring as the recent global recession has impacted local economies. Finally, we may have to obtain agreements from our affected customers for the relocation of our facilities in certain instances. Obtaining these agreements, along with the volatility in our customers’ demand, can further delay restructuring activities. We may not be able to maintain our engineering, technological and manufacturing process expertise. The markets for our manufacturing and engineering services are characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving process development. The continued success of our business will depend upon our ability to: • hire, retain and expand our qualified engineering and technical personnel; • maintain our technological expertise; • develop and market manufacturing services that meet changing customer needs; and • successfully anticipate or respond to technological changes in manufacturing processes on a cost-effective and timely basis. Although we believe that our operations use the assembly and testing technologies, equipment and processes that are currently required by our customers, we cannot be certain that we will develop the capabilities required by our customers in the future. The emergence of new technology, industry standards or customer requirements may render our equipment, inventory or processes obsolete or noncompetitive. In addition, we may have to acquire new assembly and testing technologies and equipment to remain competitive. The acquisition and implementation of new technologies and equipment may require significant expense or capital investment, which could reduce our operating margins and our operating results. In facilities that we establish or acquire, we may not be able to establish and maintain our engineering, technological and manufacturing process expertise. Our failure to anticipate and adapt to our customers’ changing technological needs and requirements or to hire and retain a sufficient number of engineers and maintain our engineering, technological and manufacturing expertise could have a material adverse effect on our operations. If our manufacturing processes and services do not comply with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements, or if we manufacture products containing design or manufacturing defects, demand for our services may decline and we may be subject to liability claims. We manufacture and design products to our customers’ specifications, and, in some cases, our manufacturing processes and facilities may need to comply with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements. For example, medical devices that we manufacture or design, as well as the facilities and manufacturing processes that we use to produce them, are regulated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) and non-U.S. counterparts of this agency. Similarly, items we manufacture for customers in the defense and aerospace industries, as well as the processes we use to produce them, are regulated by the Department of Defense and the Federal Aviation Authority. In addition, our customers’ products and the manufacturing processes and design services that we use to produce them often are highly complex. As a result, products that we manufacture or design may at times contain manufacturing or design defects, and our processes may be subject to errors or not be in compliance with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements. Defects in the products we manufacture or design, whether caused by a design, manufacturing or component failure or error, or deficiencies in our manufacturing processes, may result in delayed shipments to customers or reduced or canceled customer orders. If these defects or deficiencies are significant, our business reputation may also be damaged. The failure of the products that we manufacture or our manufacturing processes and facilities to comply with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements may subject us to regulatory enforcement, legal fines or penalties and, in some cases, require us to shut down, temporarily halt operations or incur considerable expense to correct a manufacturing process or facility. In addition, these defects may result in liability claims against us, expose us to liability to pay for the recall or remanufacture of a product or adversely affect product sales or our reputation. The magnitude of such claims may increase as we expand our medical and aerospace and defense manufacturing services, as defects in medical devices and aerospace and defense systems could seriously harm or kill users of these products and others. Even if our customers are responsible for the defects or defective specifications, they may not, or may not have resources to, assume responsibility for any costs or liabilities arising from these defects, which could expose us to additional liability claims. 20 Table of Contents We may face heightened liability risks specific to our medical device business as a result of additional healthcare regulatory related compliance requirements and the potential severe consequences that could result from manufacturing defects or malfunctions (e.g., death or serious injury) of the medical devices we manufacture or design. As a manufacturer and designer of medical devices for our customers, we have compliance requirements in addition to those relating to other areas of our business. We are required to register with the FDA and are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA for compliance with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation (“QSR”) and current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) requirements, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain regulations and to implement design and process manufacturing controls, quality control, labeling, handling and documentation procedures. The FDA, through periodic inspections and product field monitoring, continually reviews and rigorously monitors compliance with these QSR requirements and other applicable regulatory requirements. If any FDA inspection reveals noncompliance, and we do not address the FDA’s concerns to its satisfaction, the FDA may take action against us, including issuing a form noting the FDA’s inspectional observations, a notice of violation or a warning letter, imposing fines, bringing an action against the Company and its officers, requiring a recall of the products we manufactured for our customers, issuing an import detention on products entering the U.S. from an offshore facility or temporarily halting operations at or shutting down a manufacturing facility. Beyond FDA, our medical device business is subject to additional state and foreign regulatory requirements which may also impact our ability to continue operations if these entities were to allege noncompliance and take action against us. If any of these were to occur, our reputation and business could suffer. In addition, any defects or malfunctions in medical devices we manufacture or in our manufacturing processes and facilities may result in liability claims against us, expose us to liability to pay for the recall or remanufacture of a product, or otherwise adversely affect product sales or our reputation. The magnitude of such claims could be particularly severe as defects in medical devices could cause severe harm or injuries, including death, to users of these products and others. Our regular manufacturing processes and services may result in exposure to intellectual property infringement and other claims. Providing manufacturing services can expose us to potential claims that the product design or manufacturing processes infringe third party intellectual property rights. Even though many of our manufacturing services contracts generally require our customers to indemnify us for infringement claims relating to their products, including associated product specifications and designs, a particular customer may not, or may not have the resources to, assume responsibility for such claims. In addition, we may be responsible for claims that our manufacturing processes or components used in manufacturing infringe third party intellectual property rights. Infringement claims could subject us to significant liability for damages, potential injunctive action, or hamper our normal operations such as by interfering with the availability of components and, regardless of merits, could be time-consuming and expensive to resolve. Our design services and turnkey solutions offerings may result in additional exposure to product liability, intellectual property infringement and other claims, in addition to the business risk of being unable to produce the revenues necessary to profit from these services. We continue our efforts to offer certain design services, primarily those relating to products that we manufacture for our customers, and we also continue to offer design services related to collaborative design manufacturing. We also offer turnkey solutions that include the design and manufacture of end-user products, and product components, as well as related services. Providing such turnkey solutions can expose us to different or greater potential liabilities than those we face when providing our regular manufacturing services, including an increase in exposure to potential product liability claims resulting from injuries caused by defects in products we design, as well as potential claims that products we design or supply, or materials or components we use, infringe third party intellectual property rights. Such claims could subject us to significant liability for damages, subject the infringing portion of our business to injunction and, regardless of their merits, could be time-consuming and expensive to resolve. We also may have greater potential exposure from warranty claims and from product recalls due to problems caused by product design. Costs associated with possible product liability claims, intellectual property infringement claims and product recalls could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. When providing collaborative design manufacturing or turnkey solutions, we may not be guaranteed revenue needed to recoup or profit from the investment in the resources necessary to design and develop products or provide services. No revenue may be generated from these efforts, particularly if our customers do not approve the designs in a timely manner or at all, or if they do not then purchase anticipated levels of products. Furthermore, contracts may allow the customer to delay or cancel deliveries and may not obligate the customer to any volume of purchases, or may provide for penalties or cancellation of orders if we are late in delivering designs or products. We may also have the responsibility to ensure that products we design or offer satisfy safety and regulatory standards and to obtain any necessary certifications. Failure to timely obtain the necessary approvals or certifications could prevent us from selling these products, which in turn could harm our sales, profitability and reputation. In our contracts with turnkey solutions customers, we generally provide them with a warranty against defects in our designs. If a turnkey solutions product or component that we design is found to be defective in its design, this may lead to increased warranty 21 Table of Contents claims. Warranty claims may also extend to defects caused by components or materials used in the products but which are provided to us by our suppliers. Although we have product liability insurance coverage, it may not be adequate or may not continue to be available on acceptable terms, in sufficient amounts, or at all. A successful product liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage or any material claim for which insurance coverage was denied or limited and for which indemnification was not available could have a material adverse effect on our operations, results of operations and financial position. Moreover, even if the claim relates to a defect caused by a supplier, we may not be able to get an adequate remedy from the supplier. The success of our turnkey solution activities depends in part on our ability to obtain, protect and leverage intellectual property rights to our designs. We strive to obtain and protect certain intellectual property rights to our turnkey solutions designs. We believe that having a significant level of protected proprietary technology gives us a competitive advantage in marketing our services. However, we cannot be certain that the measures that we employ will result in protected intellectual property rights or will result in the prevention of unauthorized use of our technology. If we are unable to obtain and protect intellectual property rights embodied within our designs, this could reduce or eliminate the competitive advantages of our proprietary technology, which would harm our business. Intellectual property infringement claims against our customers, our suppliers or us could harm our business. Our turnkey solutions products and services and those of our customers may compete against the products of other companies, many of whom may own the intellectual property rights underlying those products. Such products and services may also infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties that may hold key intellectual property rights in areas in which we operate but which such third parties do not actively provide products or services. Patent clearance or licensing activities, if any, may be inadequate to anticipate and avoid third party claims. As a result, in addition to the risk that we could become subject to claims of intellectual property infringement, our customers or suppliers could become subject to infringement claims. Additionally, customers for our turnkey solutions, or collaborative designs in which we have significant technology contributions, typically require that we indemnify them against the risk of intellectual property infringement. If any claims are brought against us or against our customers for such infringement, regardless of their merits, we could be required to expend significant resources in the defense or settlement of such claims, or in the defense or settlement of related indemnification claims from our customers. In the event of a claim, we may be required to spend a significant amount of money to develop non-infringing alternatives or obtain licenses. We may not be successful in developing such alternatives or obtaining such a license on reasonable terms or at all. Our customers may be required to or decide to discontinue products which are alleged to be infringing rather than face continued costs of defending the infringement claims, and such discontinuance may result in a significant decrease in our business. We depend on attracting and retaining officers, managers and skilled personnel and on their compliance with company strategies and confidentiality policies and procedures. Our success depends to a large extent upon the continued services of our officers, managers and skilled personnel. Generally our employees are not bound by employment or non-competition agreements, and we cannot assure you that we will retain our officers, managers and skilled personnel. We could be seriously harmed by the loss of any of our executive officers. Recently, we had a planned succession of our Chairman of the Board, of our Chief Executive Officer and within our executive management. In order to manage our growth, we will need this succession to succeed as well as to internally develop, recruit and retain additional skilled management personnel. If we are not able to do so, our business and our ability to continue to grow could be harmed. We establish strategic goals and ethical conduct policies. We are subject to risks if our officers and managers act inconsistently with our strategic goals or violate such ethical conduct policies. We are also subject to the risk that current and former officers, managers and skilled personnel could violate the terms of our confidentiality policies and procedures or proprietary information agreements with us which require them to keep confidential and not to use for their benefit information obtained in the course of their employment with us. Should a key current or former employee use or disclose such information, including information concerning our customers, pricing, capabilities or strategy, our ability to obtain new customers and to compete could be adversely impacted. Any delay in the implementation of our information systems could disrupt our operations and cause unanticipated increases in our costs. We have completed the installation of an enterprise resource planning system in most of our manufacturing sites and in our corporate location. We are currently in the process of installing this system in certain of our remaining facilities which will replace the existing planning and financial information systems. Any delay in the implementation of these information systems could result in material adverse consequences, including disruption of operations, loss of information and unanticipated increases in costs. 22 Table of Contents Disruptions to our information systems, including security breaches, losses of data or outages, and other security issues could adversely affect in the future, our operations. We rely on information systems, some of which are owned and operated by third parties, to store, process and transmit confidential information, including financial reporting, inventory management, procurement, invoicing and electronic communications, belonging to our customers, our suppliers, our employees and/or us. Although we attempt to monitor and mitigate our exposure and modify our systems when warranted, these systems are vulnerable to, and at times have suffered from, among other things, damage from power loss or natural disasters, computer system and network failures, loss of telecommunication services, physical and electronic loss of data, terrorist attacks, security breaches and computer viruses. The increased use of mobile technologies can heighten these and other operational risks. If we, or the third parties who own and operate certain of our information systems, are unable to prevent such breaches, losses of data and outages, our operations could be disrupted. In addition, any production inefficiencies or delays could negatively affect our ability to fill customer orders, resulting in a delay or reduction in our revenues. Also, the time and funds spent on monitoring and mitigating our exposure and responding to breaches, including the training of employees, the purchase of protective technologies and the hiring of additional employees and consultants to assist in these efforts could adversely affect our financial results. Finally, any theft or misuse of information resulting from a security breach could result in, among other things, loss of significant and/or sensitive information, litigation by affected parties, financial obligations resulting from such theft or misuse, higher insurance premiums, governmental investigations, negative reactions from current and potential future customers (including potential negative financial ramifications under certain customer contract provisions) and poor publicity and any of these could adversely affect our financial results. Compliance or the failure to comply with current and future environmental, health and safety, product stewardship and producer responsibility laws or regulations could cause us significant expense. We are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety, product stewardship and producer responsibility laws and regulations, including those relating to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous chemicals used during our manufacturing process, those governing worker health and safety, those requiring design changes, supply chain investigation or conformity assessments or those relating to the recycling or reuse of products we manufacture. If we fail to comply with any present or future regulations, we could become subject to liabilities, and we could face fines or penalties, the suspension of production, or prohibitions on sales of products we manufacture. In addition, such regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or could require us to acquire costly equipment, or to incur other significant expenses, including expenses associated with the recall of any non-compliant product or with changes in our operational, procurement and inventory management activities. Certain environmental laws impose liability for the costs of investigation, removal and remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on an owner, occupier or operator of real estate, or on parties who arranged for hazardous substance treatment or disposal, even if such person or company was unaware of or not responsible for contamination at the affected site. Soil and groundwater contamination may have occurred at, near or arising from some of our facilities. From time to time we investigate, remediate and monitor soil and groundwater contamination at certain of our operating sites. In certain instances where contamination existed prior to our ownership or occupation of a site, landlords or former owners have retained some contractual responsibility for contamination and remediation. However, failure of such persons to perform those obligations could result in us being required to address such contamination. As a result, we may incur clean-up costs in such potential removal or remediation efforts. In other instances, we may be responsible for clean-up costs and other environmental liabilities, including the possibility of third-party claims in connection with contaminated sites. From time to time new regulations are enacted, or existing requirements are changed, and it is difficult to anticipate how such regulations and changes will be implemented and enforced. We continue to evaluate the necessary steps for compliance with regulations as they are enacted. As an example, under the Dodd-Frank Act, certain companies will become subject to new due diligence, disclosure and reporting requirements for manufacturing products that include components containing certain minerals. These regulations may result in a decrease in the supply of such minerals, an increase in their cost and/or a disruption to our supply chain. Our failure to comply with any applicable regulatory requirements or with related contractual obligations could result in our being directly or indirectly liable for costs (including product recall and/or replacement costs), fines or penalties and third party claims, and could jeopardize our ability to conduct business in the jurisdictions implementing them. In addition, there is an increasing governmental focus around the world on global warming and environmental impact issues, which may result in new environmental, health and safety regulations that may affect us, our suppliers and our customers. This could cause us to incur additional direct costs for compliance, as well as increased indirect costs resulting from our customers, suppliers or both incurring additional compliance costs that get passed on to us. These costs may adversely impact our operations and financial condition. 23 Table of Contents We and our customers are increasingly concerned with environmental issues, such as waste management (including recycling) and climate change (including reducing carbon outputs). We expect these concerns to grow and require increased investments of time and resources. We are subject to the risk of increased taxes. We base our tax position upon the anticipated nature and conduct of our business and upon our understanding of the tax laws of the various countries in which we have assets or conduct activities. Our tax position, however, is subject to review and possible challenge by taxing authorities and to possible changes in law (including adverse changes to the manner in which the U.S. and other countries tax multinational companies or interpret their tax laws). We cannot determine in advance the extent to which some jurisdictions may assess additional tax or interest and penalties on such additional taxes. In addition, our effective tax rate may be increased by the generation of higher income in countries with higher tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in our cash management strategies, changes in local tax rates or countries adopting more aggressive interpretations of tax laws. Several countries in which we are located allow for tax incentives to attract and retain business. We have obtained incentives where available and practicable. Our taxes could increase if certain tax incentives are retracted (which in some cases could occur if we fail to satisfy the conditions on which such incentives are based), or if they are not renewed upon expiration, or tax rates applicable to us in such jurisdictions otherwise increase. It is not anticipated that any tax incentives will expire within the next year. However, due to the possibility of changes in existing tax law and our operations, we are unable to predict how any expirations will impact us in the future. In addition, acquisitions may cause our effective tax rate to increase, depending on the jurisdictions in which the acquired operations are located. Certain of our subsidiaries provide financing, products and services to, and may from time-to-time undertake certain significant transactions with, other subsidiaries in different jurisdictions. Moreover, several jurisdictions in which we operate have tax laws with detailed transfer pricing rules which require that all transactions with non-resident related parties be priced using arm’s length pricing principles, and that contemporaneous documentation must exist to support such pricing. There is a risk that the taxing authorities may not deem our transfer pricing documentation acceptable. Our credit rating may be downgraded. Our credit is rated by credit rating agencies. Our 7.750% Senior Notes, our 8.250% Senior Notes, our 5.625% Senior Notes and our 4.700% Senior Notes are currently rated BBB- by Fitch Ratings (“Fitch”) and Standard and Poor’s (“S&P”) and Ba1 by Moody’s, and are considered to be below “investment grade” debt by Moody’s and “investment grade” debt by Fitch and S&P. Any potential future negative change in our credit rating may make it more expensive for us to raise additional capital in the future on terms that are acceptable to us, if at all; negatively impact the price of our common stock; increase our interest payments under existing debt agreements; and have other negative implications on our business, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the interest rate payable on the 8.250% Senior Notes and under the Amended and Restated Credit Facility is subject to adjustment from time to time if our credit ratings change. Thus, any potential future negative change in our credit rating may increase the interest rate payable on the 8.250% Senior Notes, the Amended and Restated Credit Facility and certain of our other borrowings. Our amount of debt could significantly increase in the future. As of August 31, 2013, our debt obligations consisted of $400.0 million under our 8.250% Senior Notes, $312.0 million under our 7.750% Senior Notes, $400.0 million under our 5.625% Senior Notes and $500.0 million under our 4.700% Senior Notes. As of August 31, 2013, there was $293.9 million outstanding under various bank loans to certain of our foreign subsidiaries and under various other debt obligations. Refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources” and Note 7 – “Notes Payable, Long-Term Debt and Capital Lease Obligations” to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. We have the ability to borrow up to $1.3 billion under the Amended and Restated Credit Facility. In addition, the Amended and Restated Credit Facility contemplates a potential increase of up to an additional $300.0 million, if we and the lenders later agree to such increase. We could incur additional indebtedness in the future in the form of bank loans, notes or convertible securities. Should we desire to consummate significant additional acquisition opportunities, undertake significant additional expansion activities or make substantial investments in our infrastructure, our capital needs would increase and could possibly result in our need to increase available borrowings under our revolving credit facilities or access public or private debt and equity markets. There can be no assurance, however, that we would be successful in raising additional debt or equity on terms that we would consider acceptable. An increase in the level of our indebtedness, among other things, could: • make it difficult for us to obtain any necessary financing in the future for other acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes; 24 Table of Contents • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, our business; • make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business; and • impact certain financial covenants that we are subject to in connection with our debt and securitization programs, including, among others, the maximum ratio of debt to consolidated EBITDA (as defined in our debt agreements and securitization programs). There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet future debt service obligations. We are subject to risks of currency fluctuations and related hedging operations. More than an insignificant portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Changes in exchange rates among other currencies and the U.S. dollar will affect our cost of sales, operating margins and net revenue. We cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations. We use financial instruments, primarily forward contracts, to economically hedge U.S. dollar and other currency commitments arising from trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable, fixed purchase obligations and other foreign currency obligations. Based on our calculations and current forecasts, we believe that our hedging activities enable us to largely protect ourselves from future exchange rate fluctuations. If, however, these hedging activities are not successful or if we change or reduce these hedging activities in the future, we may experience significant unexpected expenses from fluctuations in exchange rates. An adverse change in the interest rates for our borrowings could adversely affect our financial condition. We pay interest on outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facilities and certain other long term debt obligations at interest rates that fluctuate based upon changes in various base interest rates. An adverse change in the base rates upon which our interest rates are determined could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. If the U.S. government defaults on any of its debt obligations, its credit rating declines, or certain other economic or fiscal issues occur, interest rates could rise which would increase our interest costs and reduce our net income. Also, increased interest rates could make any future, fixed interest rate debt obligations more expensive. We face certain risks in collecting our trade accounts receivable. Most of our customer sales are paid for after the goods and services have been delivered. If any of our customers has any liquidity issues (the risk of which could be relatively high, relative to historical conditions, due to current economic conditions), then we could encounter delays or defaults in payments owed to us which could have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our allowance for doubtful trade accounts receivable was $2.7 million as of August 31, 2013 (which represented less than 1% of our gross trade accounts receivable balance) and $3.2 million as of August 31, 2012 (which represented less than 1% of our gross trade accounts receivable balance). Our stock price may be volatile. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”). The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially in the past and could fluctuate substantially in the future, based on a variety of factors, including future announcements covering us or our key customers or competitors, government regulations, litigation, changes in earnings estimates by analysts, fluctuations in quarterly operating results, or general conditions in our industry and the aerospace, automotive, computing, consumer, defense, healthcare, industrial, instrumentation, medical, networking, packaging, peripherals, solar, storage and telecommunications industries. Furthermore, stock prices for many companies and high technology companies in particular, fluctuate widely for reasons that may be unrelated to their operating results. Those fluctuations and general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions or international currency fluctuations and demand for our services, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our charter documents and state law may make it harder for others to obtain control of us even though some shareholders might consider such a development to be favorable. Provisions in our amended certificate of incorporation, bylaws and the Delaware General Corporation Law from time to time may delay, inhibit or prevent someone from gaining control of us through a tender offer, business combination, proxy contest or some other method. These provisions may adversely impact our shareholders because they may decrease the possibility of a transaction in which our shareholders receive an amount of consideration in exchange for their shares that is at a significant premium to the then current market price of our shares. These provisions include: • a restriction in our bylaws on the ability of shareholders to take action by less than unanimous written consent; and • a statutory restriction on business combinations with some types of interested shareholders. 25 Table of Contents In addition, for ten years we had a “poison pill” shareholder rights plan that our Board of Directors allowed to expire in October 2011 without extension. In doing that, our Board considered various relevant issues, including the fact that if needed and appropriate it can, under the Delaware General Corporation Law, implement a new shareholders rights plan reasonably quickly and without stockholder approval. Our Board regularly considers this topic, even in the absence of specific circumstances or takeover proposals, to facilitate its ability in the future to act expeditiously and appropriately should the need arise. Changes in the securities laws and regulations have increased, and may continue to increase, our costs; and any future changes would likely increase our costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as related rules promulgated by the SEC and the NYSE, required changes in some of our corporate governance, securities disclosure and compliance practices. Compliance with these rules has increased our legal and financial accounting costs for several years following the announcement and effectiveness of these new rules. While these costs are no longer increasing, they may in fact increase in the future. In addition, given the recent turmoil in the securities and credit markets, as well as the global economy, many U.S. and international governmental, regulatory and supervisory authorities including, but not limited to, the SEC and the NYSE, have recently enacted additional changes in their laws, regulations and rules (such as the recent Dodd-Frank Act) and may be contemplating additional changes. These changes, and any such future changes, may cause our legal and financial accounting costs to increase. Due to inherent limitations, there can be no assurance that our system of disclosure and internal controls and procedures will be successful in preventing all errors, theft and fraud, or in informing management of all material information in a timely manner. Our Board management, including our CEO and CFO, do not expect that our disclosure controls and internal controls and procedures will prevent all errors, theft and fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system reflects that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the company have been or will be detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur simply because of error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the control. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions; over time, a control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be detected. If we receive other than an unqualified opinion on the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting as of August 31, 2014 or any future year-ends, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of your shares. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, larger public companies like us are required to include an annual report on internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. Our independent registered certified public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, issued an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of August 31, 2013. While we continuously conduct a rigorous review of our internal control over financial reporting in order to try to assure compliance with the Section 404 requirements, if our independent registered certified public accounting firm interprets the Section 404 requirements and the related rules and regulations differently from us or if our independent registered certified public accounting firm is not satisfied with our internal control over financial reporting or with the level at which it is documented, operated or reviewed, they may issue an adverse opinion. An adverse opinion could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, we have spent a significant amount of resources, and will likely continue to for the foreseeable future, in complying with Section 404’s requirements. There are inherent uncertainties involved in estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”). Any changes in U.S. GAAP or in estimates, judgments and assumptions could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. The Consolidated Financial Statements included in the periodic reports we file with the SEC are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP involves making estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities and related reserves, revenues, expenses and income. Estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently subject to change in the future, and any such changes could result in corresponding changes 26 Table of Contents to the amounts of assets, liabilities and related reserves, revenues, expenses and income. Any such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. In addition, the principles of U.S. GAAP are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC and various bodies formed to create appropriate accounting policies, and interpret such policies. A change in those policies can have a significant effect on our accounting methods. For example, although not yet currently required, the SEC could require us to adopt the International Financial Reporting Standards in the next few years, which could have a significant effect on certain of our accounting methods. We are subject to risks associated with natural disasters, climate change and global events. Our operations and those of our suppliers may be subject to natural disasters (such as the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan and the flooding in Thailand in the second half of 2011), climate change related events, or other business disruptions, which could seriously harm our results of operation and increase our costs and expenses. We are susceptible to losses and interruptions caused by hurricanes (including in Florida, where our headquarters are located), earthquakes, power shortages, telecommunications failures, water shortages, tsunamis, floods, typhoons, drought, fire, extreme weather conditions, rising sea level, geopolitical events such as terrorist acts or widespread criminal activities and other natural or manmade disasters. Our insurance coverage with respect to natural disasters is limited and is subject to deductibles and coverage limits. Such coverage may not be adequate, or may not continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates and terms. Energy price increases may negatively impact our results of operations. Certain of the components that we use in our manufacturing activities are petroleum-based. In addition, we, along with our suppliers and customers, rely on various energy sources (including oil) in our facilities and transportation activities. An increase in energy prices, which have been volatile over the past few years, could cause an increase to our raw material costs and transportation costs. In addition, increased transportation costs of certain of our suppliers and customers could be passed along to us. We may not be able to increase our product prices enough to offset these increased costs. In addition, any increase in our product prices may reduce our future customer orders and profitability. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have not received any written comments from the SEC staff regarding our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act that were received on or before the date that is 180 days before the end of our 2013 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 