Risk Factors—We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights." We have granted Depuy Mitek an exclusive, non-transferable royalty bearing license to use and sell ORTHOVISC (and other products developed pursuant to the JNJ Agreement) in the U.S., as well as a license to manufacture and have manufactured such products in the event that we are unable to supply them with products in accordance with the terms of the JNJ Agreement. Government Regulation United States Regulation Our research (including clinical research), development, manufacture, and marketing of products are subject to regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the U.S. and other countries. Medical devices and pharmaceuticals are subject to extensive and rigorous regulation by the FDA and by other federal, state and local authorities. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act ("FDC Act") governs the conditions of safety, efficacy, clearance, approval, manufacture, quality system requirements, labeling, packaging, distribution, storage, record keeping, reporting, marketing, advertising, and promotion of our products. Noncompliance with applicable requirements can result in, among other things, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, failure of the government to grant premarket clearance or approval of products, withdrawal of clearances and approvals, and criminal prosecution. Medical products regulated by the FDA are generally classified as drugs, biologics, and/or medical devices. Medical devices intended for human use are classified into three categories (Class I, II or III), on the basis of the controls deemed reasonably necessary by the FDA to assure their safety and efficacy. 6 Table of Contents Class I devices are subject to general controls, for example, labeling and adherence to the FDA's Good Manufacturing Practices/Quality System Regulation ("GMP/QSR"). Most Class I devices are exempt from the FDA review process and some are exempt from Good Manufacturing Practice. Class II devices are subject to general and special controls (for example, performance standards, postmarket surveillance, and patient registries). Most Class II devices are subject to premarket notification and may be subject to clinical testing for purposes of premarket notification and clearance for marketing. Class III is the most stringent regulatory category for medical devices. Most Class III devices require premarket approval ("PMA") from the FDA. All of our existing products, with the exception of HYVISC, are subject to the applicable rules related to Class III devices. AMVISC, AMVISC Plus, ShellGel and STAARVISC are approved as Class III medical devices in the U.S. for intraocular ophthalmic surgical procedures in intraocular use in humans. ORTHOVISC is approved as a Class III medical device in the U.S. for treatment of pain resulting from osteoarthritis of the knee in humans. ELEVESS is approved as a Class III medical device in the U.S. for treatment of facial wrinkles and folds, such as nasolabial folds. HYVISC is approved as an animal drug for intra- articular injection in horse joints to treat degenerative joint disease associated with synovitis. Most HA products for human use are regulated as medical devices. We believe that our INCERT product, should we decide to seek U.S. approval to market, will have to meet the regulatory requirements for Class III devices and will require clinical trials and a PMA submission. Unless a new device is exempted from premarket notification, its manufacturer must obtain marketing clearance from the FDA through premarket notification (510(k)) or approval through PMA before the device can be introduced to the market. Product development and approval within the FDA regulatory framework takes a number of years and involves the expenditure of substantial resources. This regulatory framework may change or additional regulations may arise at any stage of our product development process and may affect approval of, or delay an application related to, a product, or require additional expenditures by us. There can be no assurance that the FDA review of marketing applications will result in product approval on a timely basis, if at all. The PMA approval process is lengthy, expensive, and typically requires, among other things, valid scientific evidence which generally includes extensive data such as pre-clinical and clinical trial data to demonstrate a reasonable assurance of safety and effectiveness. Human clinical trials in the U.S. for significant risk devices must be conducted under a Good Clinical Practice (GCP) regulations through Investigational Device Exemption ("IDE"), which must be submitted to the FDA and either be approved or be allowed to become effective before the trials may commence. There can be no assurance that submission of an IDE will result in the ability to commence clinical trials. In addition, the IDE approval process could result in significant delays. Even if the FDA approves an IDE or allows an IDE for a clinical investigation to become effective, clinical trials may be suspended at any time for a number of reasons. Among others, these reasons may include: a) failure to comply with applicable requirements; b) inadequacy of informed consent; and c) the data generated suggests that: the risks to clinical subjects are not outweighed by the anticipated benefits to clinical subjects and the importance of the knowledge to be gained, the investigation is scientifically unsound, or there is reason to believe that the device, as used, is ineffective. A trial may be terminated if serious unanticipated adverse events present an unreasonable risk to subjects. If clinical studies are suspended or terminated, we may be unable to continue the development of the investigational products affected. Upon completion of required clinical trials, for Class III medical devices, results are presented to the FDA in a PMA application. In addition to the results of clinical investigations, the New Drug Application ("NDA") applicant must submit other information relevant to the safety and efficacy of the device, including, among other things, the results of non-clinical tests and clinical trials; a full description of the device and its components; a full description of the methods, facilities and controls used for manufacturing; and proposed labeling. The FDA also conducts an on-site inspection to determine whether an applicant conforms with the FDA's current Quality System Regulation ("QSR"), formerly known as GMP. FDA review of the PMA may not result in timely, or any, PMA approval, and there may be 7 Table of Contents significant conditions on approval, including limitations on labeling and advertising claims and the imposition of post-market testing, tracking, or surveillance requirements. Upon completion of required clinical trials for pharmaceuticals, results are presented to the FDA in a NDA or New Animal Drug Application ("NADA"). In addition to the results of clinical investigations, the PMA applicant must submit other information relevant to the safety and efficacy of the product, including, among other things, the results of non-clinical tests and clinical trials; a full description of the product formulation; a full description of the methods, facilities and controls used for manufacturing; and proposed labeling. The FDA also conducts an on-site inspection to determine whether an applicant conforms with the FDA's current QSR related to pharmaceuticals. FDA review of the NDA or NADA may not result in timely, or any, FDA approval, and there may be significant conditions on approval, including limitations on labeling and advertising claims and the imposition of post-market testing, tracking, or surveillance requirements. Product or manufacturing changes after approval where such change affects safety and efficacy of the medical products as well as the use of a different facility for manufacturing, could necessitate additional review and approval by the FDA. Post approval changes in labeling, packaging or promotional materials may also necessitate further review and approval by the FDA. Legally marketed products are subject to continuing requirements by the FDA relating to design control, manufacturing, quality control and quality assurance, maintenance of records and documentation, reporting of adverse events, and labeling and promotion. The FDC Act requires medical product manufacturers to comply with QSR for medical devices and other quality system regulations related to pharmaceuticals. The FDA enforces these requirements through periodic inspections of manufacturing facilities. To ensure full compliance with requirements set forth in the GMP/QSR regulations, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in the area of production and quality control to ensure full technical compliance. Other federal, state, and local agencies may inspect manufacturing establishments as well. A set of regulations known as the Medical Device Reporting regulations obligates manufacturers to inform the FDA whenever information reasonably suggests that one of their devices may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury, or when one of their devices malfunctions and if the malfunction were to recur, the device or a similar device would be likely to cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. The process of obtaining approvals from the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities can be costly, time consuming, and subject to unanticipated delays. Approvals of our products, processes or facilities may not be granted on a timely basis or at all, and we may not have available resources or be able to obtain the financing needed to develop certain of such products. Any failure or delay in obtaining such approvals could adversely affect our ability to market our products in the U.S. and in other countries. In addition to regulations enforced by the FDA, we are subject to regulation under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Environmental Protection Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and other existing and future federal, state and local laws and regulations as well as those of foreign governments. Federal, state and foreign regulations regarding the manufacture and sale of medical products are subject to change. We cannot predict what impact, if any, such changes might have on our business. FDA Warning Letter In July 2008, we received a Warning Letter (the "Warning Letter") from the FDA in response to an earlier FDA Form 483 Notice of Observations issued to us following an inspection at our current manufacturing facility in Woburn, Massachusetts. We have fully cooperated with the FDA to address the issues in the Form 483 filing and have issued a response to the FDA's Warning Letter. We have developed a 8 Table of Contents corrective action plan and we have provided the FDA with progress reports. On September 15, 2008, the FDA issued a letter to us indicating that the responses submitted by us were sufficient. We have no major disagreements with the FDA, and expect to have a successful re-inspection and clearance of the Warning Letter by early 2009. Product quality is the highest concern to us and we are committed to the continual improvement of our quality systems. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements and to address the issues raised by the FDA in the Warning Letter could result in regulatory action. Any such regulatory action would be expected to have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Foreign Regulation In addition to regulations enforced by the FDA, we and our products are subject to certain foreign regulations. International regulatory bodies often establish regulations governing product standards, packing requirements, labeling requirements, import restrictions, tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements. ORTHOVISC is approved for sale and is marketed in Canada, Europe, Turkey, and parts of the Middle East. In the European Union ("EU"), ORTHOVISC is sold under Conformité Européene (CE mark) authorization, a certification required under European Union medical device regulations. The CE mark, achieved in 1996, allows ORTHOVISC to be marketed without further approvals in most of the EU nations as well as other countries that recognize EU device regulations. ORTHOVISC® mini, a treatment for osteoarthritis targeting small joints is available in Europe under CE mark authorization received in 2008. In August 2004, we received an EC Design Examination Certificate which entitled us to affix a CE mark to INCERT-S as a barrier to adhesion formation following surgery. AMVISC® and AMVISC® Plus are CE marked, and in May 2005, we received an EC Design Examination Certificate which entitled us to affix a CE mark to ShellGel™ as an ophthalmic viscoelastic surgical device. Staarvisc, an ophthalmic viscoelastic surgical device is licensed in Canada from May 2002. We received EU CE Mark approval for ELEVESS during the second quarter of 2007. Monovisc, a medical device for treatment of pain associated with osteoarthritis, was approved in the EU in October 2007. We may not be able to achieve and/or maintain compliance required for CE marking or other foreign regulatory approvals for any or all of our products. The requirements relating to the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, marketing, pricing, advertising, promotion and reimbursement also vary widely from country to country. In the third quarter of 2006, the government of Turkey eliminated reimbursement for over 100 drugs including ORTHOVISC, designated as a drug in Turkey, and its competing products. International sales declined in 2007 compared to 2006 due to the reimbursement change in Turkey. We did not ship product to our Turkish distributor during the 10 months ended May 2007. Starting in June 2007, sales to Turkey have been at a lower level reflective of a private pay business. Competition We compete with many companies, including, among others, large pharmaceutical firms and specialized medical products companies across all of our product lines. Many of these companies have substantially greater financial resources, larger research and development staffs, more extensive marketing and manufacturing organizations and more experience in the regulatory process than us. We also compete with academic institutions, governmental agencies and other research organizations, which may be involved in research, development and commercialization of products. Many of our competitors also compete against us in securing relationships with collaborators for their research and development and commercialization programs. Competition in our industry is based primarily on product efficacy, safety, timing and scope of regulatory approvals, availability of supply, marketing and sales capability, reimbursement coverage, product pricing and patent protection. Some of the principal factors that may affect our ability to compete in our HA development and commercialization markets include: •the quality and breadth of our technology and technological advances; 9 Table of Contents •our ability to complete successful clinical studies and obtain FDA marketing and foreign regulatory approvals prior to our competitors; •our ability to recruit and retain skilled employees; and •the availability of substantial capital resources to fund discovery, development and commercialization activities or the ability to defray such costs through securing relationships with collaborators for our research and development and commercialization programs. We are aware of several companies that are developing and/or marketing products utilizing HA for a variety of human applications. In some cases, competitors have already obtained product approvals, submitted applications for approval or have commenced human clinical studies, either in the U.S. or in certain foreign countries. All of the Company's products face substantial competition. There exist major worldwide competing HA-based products for use in ophthalmic surgery, orthopedics, surgical adhesion prevention, and cosmetic dermal fillers. There is a risk that we will be unable to compete effectively against our current or future competitors. Employees As of December 31, 2008, we had 84 employees. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. None of our employees are represented by labor unions. Environmental Laws We believe that we are in compliance with all federal, state and local environmental regulations with respect to our manufacturing facilities and that the cost of ongoing compliance with such regulations does not have a material effect on our operations. Our leased manufacturing facility is located within the Wells G&H Superfund site in Woburn, Massachusetts. We have not been named and are not a party to any legal proceedings regarding the Wells G&H Superfund site. Product Liability The testing, marketing and sale of human health care products entail an inherent risk of allegations of product liability, and we cannot assure you that substantial product liability claims will not be asserted against us. Although we have not received any material product liability claims to date and have coverage under our insurance policy of $5,000,000 per occurrence and $5,000,000 in the aggregate, we cannot assure you that if material claims arise in the future, our insurance will be adequate to cover all situations. Moreover, we cannot assure you that such insurance, or additional insurance, if required, will be available in the future or, if available, will be available on commercially reasonable terms. Any product liability claim, if successful, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operation. Available Information Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and other information, including amendments and exhibits to such reports, filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are available free of charge in the "SEC Filings" section of our website located at http://www.anikatherapeutics.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Reports filed with the SEC may be viewed at www.sec.gov or obtained at the SEC Public Reference Room at 100F Street NE, Washington, D.C. Information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. 10 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operating results and financial condition have varied in the past and could in the future vary significantly depending on a number of factors. From time to time, information provided by us or statements made by our employees contain "forward-looking" information that involves risks and uncertainties. In particular, statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and in the documents incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, that are not historical facts, including, but not limited to statements concerning new products, product development and offerings, product and price competition, competition and strategy, customer diversification, product price and inventory, contingent consideration payments, deferred revenues, economic and market conditions, potential government regulation, seasonal factors, international expansion, revenue recognition, profits, growth of revenues, composition of revenues, cost of revenues, operating expenses, sales, marketing and support expenses, general and administrative expenses, product gross profit, interest income, interest expense, anticipated operating and capital expenditure requirements, cash inflows, contractual obligations, tax rates, SFAS 123R, leasing and subleasing activities, acquisitions, liquidity, litigation matters, intellectual property matters, distribution channels, stock price, third party licenses and potential debt or equity financings constitute forward-looking statements and are made under the safe harbor provisions of Section 27 of the Securities Act of 1933 as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These statements are neither promises nor guarantees. Our actual results of operations and financial condition have varied and could in the future vary significantly from those stated in any forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this Form 10-K, in the documents incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by our management from time to time. Such factors, among others, could have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business is subject to comprehensive and varied government regulation and, as a result, failure to obtain FDA or other U.S. and foreign governmental approvals for our products may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Product development and approval within the FDA framework takes a number of years and involves the expenditure of substantial resources. There can be no assurance that the FDA will grant approval for our new products on a timely basis if at all, or that FDA review will not involve delays that will adversely affect our ability to commercialize additional products or expand permitted uses of existing products, or that the regulatory framework will not change, or that additional regulation will not arise at any stage of our product development process which may adversely affect approval of or delay an application or require additional expenditures by us. In the event our future products are regulated as human drugs or biologics, the FDA's review process of such products typically would be substantially longer and more expensive than the review process to which they are currently subject as devices. Products in development include next generation joint health related products. Monovisc is a single-injection treatment product that uses a non-animal source HA, and is our first osteoarthritis product based on our proprietary crosslinked HA- technology. We received CE Mark approval for the Monovisc product in October 2007. We are conducting a pivotal trial in the U.S. for a PMA application. Our second single-injection osteoarthritis product is Cingal, which is based on the same technology platform used in MONOVISC, with an added active therapeutic molecule to provide broad pain relief for a long period of time. We expect to commence a clinical trial and file an application for CE Mark for CINGAL in 2009. We cannot assure you that: •we will begin or successfully complete U.S. clinical trials for next generation products; •the clinical data will support the efficacy of these products; 11 Table of Contents •we will be able to successfully complete the FDA or foreign regulatory approval process, where required; or •additional clinical trials will support a PMA application and/or FDA approval or other foreign regulatory approvals, where required, in a timely manner or at all. We also cannot assure you that any delay in receiving FDA approvals will not adversely affect our competitive position. Furthermore, even if we do receive FDA approval: •the approval may include significant limitations on the indications and other claims sought for use for which the products may be marketed; •the approval may include other significant conditions of approval such as post-market testing, tracking, or surveillance requirements; and •meaningful sales may never be achieved. Once obtained, marketing approval can be withdrawn by the FDA for a number of reasons, including, among others, the failure to comply with regulatory requirements, or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial approval. We may be required to make further filings with the FDA under certain circumstances. The FDA's regulations require a PMA supplement for certain changes if they affect the safety and effectiveness of an approved device, including, but not limited to, new indications for use, labeling changes, process or manufacturing changes, the use of a different facility to manufacture, process or package the device, and changes in performance or design specifications. Our failure to receive approval of a PMA supplement regarding the use of a different manufacturing facility or any other change affecting the safety or effectiveness of an approved device on a timely basis, or at all, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The FDA could also limit or prevent the manufacture or distribution of our products and has the power to require the recall of such products. It also might be necessary for us, in applicable circumstances, to initiate a voluntary recall per FDA regulations of one or several of our products. Significant delay or cost in obtaining, or failure to obtain FDA approval to market products, any FDA limitations on the use of our products, or any withdrawal or suspension of approval or rescission of approval by the FDA could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, all FDA approved or cleared products manufactured by us must be manufactured in compliance with the FDA's Good Manufacturing Practices ("GMP") regulations and, for medical devices, the FDA's Quality System Regulations ("QSR"). Ongoing compliance with QSR and other applicable regulatory requirements is enforced through periodic inspection by state and federal agencies, including the FDA. The FDA may inspect our facilities, from time to time, to determine whether we are in compliance with regulations relating to medical device and pharmaceutical companies, including regulations concerning manufacturing, testing, quality control and product labeling practices. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with current or future FDA requirements applicable to the manufacture of our products. FDA regulations depend heavily on administrative interpretation and we cannot assure you that the future interpretations made by the FDA or other regulatory bodies, with possible retroactive effect, will not adversely affect us. In addition, changes in the existing regulations or adoption of new governmental regulations or policies could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our products. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in, among other things, warning letters, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, refusal of the FDA to grant pre-market clearance or pre-market approval for devices or drugs, withdrawal of approvals and criminal prosecution. In July 2008, we received a Warning Letter (the "Warning Letter") from the FDA in response to an earlier FDA Form 483 Notice of Observations issued to us following an inspection at our Woburn facility. We have fully cooperated with the FDA to address the 12 Table of Contents issues in the Form 483 filing and have issued a response to the FDA's Warning Letter. We have developed a corrective action plan and we have provided the FDA with progress reports. On September 15, 2008, the FDA issued a letter to us indicating that the responses submitted by us were sufficient. We have no major disagreements with the FDA, and expect to have a successful re-inspection and clearance of the Warning Letter by early 2009. Product quality is the highest concern to us and we are committed to the continual improvement of our quality systems. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements and to address the issues raised by the FDA in the Warning Letter could result in regulatory action. Any such regulatory action would be expected to have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. In addition to regulations enforced by the FDA, we are subject to other existing and future federal, state, local and foreign regulations. International regulatory bodies often establish regulations governing product standards, packing requirements, labeling requirements, quality system and manufacturing requirements, import restrictions, tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve and/or maintain compliance required for CE marking or other foreign regulatory approvals for any or all of our products or that we will be able to produce our products in a timely and profitable manner while complying with applicable requirements. Federal, state, local and foreign regulations regarding the manufacture and sale of medical products are subject to change. We cannot predict what impact, if any, such changes might have on our business. The process of obtaining approvals from the FDA and other regulatory authorities can be costly, time consuming, and subject to unanticipated delays. We cannot assure you that approvals or clearances of our products will be granted or that we will have the necessary funds to develop certain of our products. Any failure to obtain, or delay in obtaining such approvals or clearances, could adversely affect our ability to market our products. Current economic conditions, including the credit crisis affecting the financial markets and global recession, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The worldwide financial markets are currently experiencing turmoil, characterized by volatility in security prices, rating downgrades of investments, and reductions in available credit. These events have materially and adversely impacted the availability of financing to a wide variety of businesses, and the resulting uncertainty has led to reductions in capital investments, overall spending levels, future product plans, and sales projections across industries and markets. These trends could have a material adverse impact on our business, our ability to achieve planned results of operations and our financial condition as a result of: •reduced demand for our products; •increased risk of order cancellations or delays; •increased pressure on the prices for our products; •greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; and •risks to our liquidity, including the possibility that we might not have sufficient access to cash when needed. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries, but the longer the duration the greater the risks we face in operating our business. Substantial competition could materially affect our financial performance. We compete with many companies, including, among others, large pharmaceutical companies, specialized medical products companies and healthcare companies. Many of these companies have substantially greater financial resources, larger research and development staffs, more extensive marketing 13 Table of Contents and manufacturing organizations and more experience in the regulatory process than us. We also compete with academic institutions, governmental agencies and other research organizations that may be involved in research, development and commercialization of products. Because a number of companies are developing or have developed HA products for similar applications and have received FDA approval, the successful commercialization of a particular product will depend in part upon our ability to complete clinical studies and obtain FDA marketing and foreign regulatory approvals prior to our competitors, or, if regulatory approval is not obtained prior to our competitors, to identify markets for our products that may be sufficient to permit meaningful sales of our products. For example, we are aware of several companies that are developing and/or marketing products utilizing HA for a variety of human applications. In some cases, competitors have already obtained product approvals, submitted applications for approval or have commenced human clinical studies, either in the U.S. or in certain foreign countries. There exist major competing products for the use of HA in ophthalmic surgery. In addition, certain HA products made by our competitors for the treatment of osteoarthritis in the knee have received FDA approval before ours and have been marketed in the U.S. since 1997, as well as select markets in Canada, Europe and other countries. To date, the FDA approved seven HA products for the treatment of facial wrinkles which have been marketed internationally for a number of years. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete against current or future competitors or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are uncertain regarding the success of our clinical trials. Several of our products do require clinical trials to determine their safety and efficacy for U.S. and international marketing approval by regulatory bodies, including the FDA. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully complete the U.S. or international regulatory approval process for products in development. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter additional problems that will cause us to delay, suspend or terminate our clinical trials. In addition, we cannot make any assurance that clinical trials, if completed, will ultimately demonstrate these products to be safe and efficacious. Our current products in clinical trial include MONOVISC. We are dependent upon marketing and distribution partners and the failure to maintain strategic alliances on acceptable terms will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success will be dependent, in part, upon the efforts of our marketing and distribution partners and the terms and conditions of our relationships with such partners. We cannot assure you that such partners will not seek to renegotiate their current agreements on terms less favorable to us or terminate such agreements. We are continuing to seek to establish long-term distribution relationships in regions not covered by existing agreements, but can make no assurances that we will be successful in doing so. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify or engage appropriate distribution or collaboration partners or effectively transition to any such partners. There can be no assurance that we will obtain European or other reimbursement approvals or, if such approvals are obtained, they will be obtained on a timely basis or at a satisfactory level of reimbursement. We may need to obtain the assistance of additional marketing partners to bring new and existing products to market and to replace certain marketing partners. The failure to establish strategic partnerships for the marketing and distribution of our products on acceptable terms will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our future success depends upon market acceptance of our existing and future products. Our success will depend in part upon the acceptance of our existing and future products by the medical community, hospitals and physicians and other health care providers, third-party payers, and end-users. Such acceptance may depend upon the extent to which the medical community and end-users perceive our products as safer, more effective or cost-competitive than other similar products. Ultimately, 14 Table of Contents for our new products to gain general market acceptance, it may also be necessary for us to develop marketing partners for the distribution of our products. There can be no assurance that our new products will achieve significant market acceptance on a timely basis, or at all. Failure of some or all of our future products to achieve significant market acceptance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights. Our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may not be successful. We reply on a combination of copy right, trademark, patent and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain and enforce patents, protect trade secrets, obtain licenses to technology owned by third parties when necessary, and conduct our business without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. The patent positions of pharmaceutical, medical products and biotechnology firms, including ours, can be uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. There can be no assurance that any patent applications will result in the issuance of patents or, if any patents are issued, whether they will provide significant proprietary protection or commercial advantage, or will not be circumvented by others. In the event a third party has also filed one or more patent applications for any of its inventions, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office ("PTO") to determine priority of invention, which could result in failure to obtain, or the loss of, patent protection for the inventions and the loss of any right to use the inventions. Even if the eventual outcome is favorable to us, such interference proceedings could result in substantial cost to us, and diversion of management's attention away from our operations. Filing and prosecution of patent applications, litigation to establish the validity and scope of patents, assertion of patent infringement claims against others and the defense of patent infringement claims by others can be expensive and time consuming. There can be no assurance that in the event that any claims with respect to any of our patents, if issued, are challenged by one or more third parties, that any court or patent authority ruling on such challenge will determine that such patent claims are valid and enforceable. An adverse outcome in such litigation could cause us to lose exclusivity covered by the disputed rights. If a third party is found to have rights covering products or processes used by us, we could be forced to cease using the technologies or marketing the products covered by such rights, could be subject to significant liabilities to such third party, and could be required to license technologies from such third party. Furthermore, even if our patents are determined to be valid, enforceable, and broad in scope, there can be no assurance that competitors will not be able to design around such patents and compete with us using the resulting alternative technology. We have a policy of seeking patent protection for patentable aspects of our proprietary technology. We intend to seek patent protection with respect to products and processes developed in the course of our activities when we believe such protection is in our best interest and when the cost of seeking such protection is not inordinate. However, no assurance can be given that any patent application will be filed, that any filed applications will result in issued patents or that any issued patents will provide us with a competitive advantage or will not be successfully challenged by third parties. The protections afforded by patents will depend upon their scope and validity, and others may be able to design around our patents. Other entities have filed patent applications for or have been issued patents concerning various aspects of HA-related products or processes. There can be no assurance that the products or processes developed by us will not infringe on the patent rights of others in the future. Any such infringement may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We also rely upon trade secrets and proprietary know-how for certain non-patented aspects of our technology. To protect such information, we require all employees, consultants and licensees to enter into confidentiality agreements limiting the disclosure and use of such information. There can be no assurance that these agreements provide meaningful protection or that they will not be breached, that we would have adequate remedies for any such breach, or that our trade secrets, proprietary know-how, and our 15 Table of Contents technological advances will not otherwise become known to others. In addition, there can be no assurance that, despite precautions taken by us, others have not and will not obtain access to our proprietary technology. Further, there can be no assurance that third parties will not independently develop substantially equivalent or better technology. Pursuant to the 2004 B&L Agreement, we have agreed to transfer to Bausch & Lomb, upon expiration of the term of the 2004 B&L Agreement on December 31, 2010, or in connection with earlier termination in certain circumstances, our manufacturing process, know-how and technical information, which relate to only AMVISC products. Upon expiration of the 2004 B&L Agreement, there can be no assurance that Bausch & Lomb will continue to use us to manufacture AMVISC and AMVISC Plus. If Bausch & Lomb discontinues the use of us as a manufacturer after such time, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would likely be materially and adversely affected. Our manufacturing processes involve inherent risks and disruption could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The operation of biomedical manufacturing plants involves many risks, including the risks of breakdown, failure or substandard performance of equipment, the occurrence of natural and other disasters, and the need to comply with the requirements of directives of government agencies, including the FDA. In addition, we rely on a single supplier for certain key raw materials and a small number of suppliers for a number of other materials required for the manufacturing and delivery of our HA products. Although we believe that alternative sources for many of these and other components and raw materials that we use in our manufacturing processes are available, any supply interruption could harm our ability to manufacture our products until a new source of supply is identified and qualified. We may not be able to find a sufficient alternative supplier in a reasonable time period, or on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, and our ability to produce and supply our products could be impaired. Furthermore, our manufacturing processes and research and development efforts involve animals and products derived from animals. We procure our animal-derived raw materials from qualified vendors, control for contamination and have processes that effectively inactivate infectious agents; however, we cannot assure you that we can completely eliminate the risk of transmission of infectious agents. Furthermore, regulatory authorities could in the future impose restrictions on the use of animal-derived raw materials that could impact our business. The utilization of animals in research and development and product commercialization is subject to increasing focus by animal rights activists. The activities of animal rights groups and other organizations that have protested animal based research and development programs or boycotted the products resulting from such programs could cause an interruption in our manufacturing processes and research and development efforts. The occurrence of material operational problems, including but not limited to the events described above, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations during the period of such operational difficulties. Our new facility construction and validation processes could materially adversely affect our operations. We entered into a new lease on January 4, 2007, for a new headquarters facility consisting of approximately 134,000 square feet of general office, research and development and manufacturing space located in Bedford, Massachusetts. The lease has an initial term of ten and a half years, and commenced on approximately May 1, 2007 when certain agreed upon landlord improvements were completed. We commenced the buildout of the new facility during the second quarter of 2007. Our administrative, marketing, regulatory, and research and development personnel moved into the Bedford facility in November 2007. The remaining buildout was completed in mid-2008 and validation for the new manufacturing space is expected to be completed in 2009. We provide no assurance that the validation and approval processes will be completed on time, if at all. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that the 16 Table of Contents transition from the existing facilities to the new facility will be seamless and successful. In the event the construction is delayed or the move transition is unsuccessful, it may result in business interruptions. We may also incur additional expenditures in the event that we have to maintain two facilities for a prolonged period. Our financial performance depends on the continued growth and demand for our products and we may not be able to successfully manage the expansion of our operations. Our future success depends on substantial growth in product sales. There can be no assurance that such growth can be achieved or, if achieved, can be sustained. There can be no assurance that even if substantial growth in product sales and the demand for our products is achieved, we will be able to: •develop the necessary manufacturing capabilities; •obtain the assistance of additional marketing partners; •attract, retain and integrate the required key personnel; and •implement the financial, accounting and management systems needed to manage growing demand for our products. Our failure to successfully manage future growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we engage in any acquisition as a part our growth strategy, we will incur a variety of costs, and may never realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Our business strategy may include the future acquisition of businesses, technologies, services or products that we believe are a strategic fit with our business. If we undertake any acquisition, the process of integrating an acquired business, technology, service or product may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and may absorb significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business. Moreover, we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition as rapidly as expected or at all. Future acquisitions could reduce stockholders' ownership, cause us to incur debt, expose us to future liabilities and result in amortization expenses related to intangible assets with definite lives. In addition, acquisitions involve other risks, including diversion of management resources otherwise available for ongoing development of our business and risks associated with entering new markets with which we have limited experience or where experienced distribution alliances are not available. Our future profitability may depend in part upon our ability to develop further our resources to adapt to these new products or business areas and to identify and enter into satisfactory distribution networks. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates in the future or consummate future acquisitions. Sales of our products are largely dependent upon third party reimbursement and our performance may be harmed by health care cost containment initiatives. In the U.S. and other markets, health care providers, such as hospitals and physicians, that purchase health care products, such as our products, generally rely on third party payers, including Medicare, Medicaid and other health insurance and managed care plans, to reimburse all or part of the cost of the health care product. We depend upon the distributors for our products to secure reimbursement and reimbursement approvals. Reimbursement by third party payers may depend on a number of factors, including the payer's determination that the use of our products is clinically useful and cost-effective, medically necessary and not experimental or investigational. Since reimbursement approval is required from each payer individually, seeking such approvals can be a time consuming and costly process which, in the future, could require us or our marketing partners to provide supporting scientific, clinical and cost-effectiveness data for the use of our products to each payer separately. Significant uncertainty exists as 17 Table of Contents to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products, and any failure or delay in obtaining reimbursement approvals can negatively impact sales of our new products. In addition, third party payers are increasingly attempting to contain the costs of health care products and services by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new therapeutic products and by refusing in some cases to provide coverage for uses of approved products for disease indications for which the FDA has not granted marketing approval. Also, Congress and certain state legislatures have considered reforms that may affect current reimbursement practices, including controls on health care spending through limitations on the growth of Medicare and Medicaid spending. There can be no assurance that third party reimbursement coverage will be available or adequate for any products or services developed by us. Outside the U.S., the success of our products is also dependent in part upon the availability of reimbursement and health care payment systems. Domestic and international reimbursement laws and regulations may change from time to time. Lack of adequate coverage and reimbursement provided by governments and other third party payers for our products and services, including change of classification by CMS for ORTHOVISC under a unique Q-code for Medicare/Medicaid reimbursement, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may seek financing in the future, which could be difficult to obtain and which could dilute your ownership interest or the value of your shares. We had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $43.2 million at December 31, 2008. Our future capital requirements and the adequacy of available funds will depend, however, on numerous factors, including: •market acceptance of our existing and future products; •the success and sales of our products under various distributor agreements; •the successful commercialization of products in development; •progress in our product development efforts; •the magnitude and scope of such product development efforts; •any potential acquisitions of products, technologies or businesses; •progress with preclinical studies, clinical trials and product clearances by the FDA and other agencies; •the cost and timing of our efforts to manage our manufacturing capabilities and related costs; •the cost and timing of validation and approval processes for our new manufacturing space; •the cost of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights; •competing technological and market developments; •the development of strategic alliances for the marketing of certain of our products; •the terms of such strategic alliances, including provisions (and our ability to satisfy such provisions) that provide upfront and/or milestone payments to us; •our abilities to meet debt covenant and repayment requirements; and •the cost of maintaining adequate inventory levels to meet current and future product demands. To the extent that funds generated from our operations, together with our existing capital resources are insufficient to meet future requirements, we will be required to obtain additional funds through equity or debt financings, strategic alliances with corporate partners and others, or through other sources. The 18 Table of Contents terms of any future equity financings may be dilutive to you and the terms of any debt financings may contain restrictive covenants, which limit our ability to pursue certain courses of action. Our ability to obtain financing is dependent on the status of our future business prospects as well as conditions prevailing in the relevant capital markets. No assurance can be given that any additional financing will be made available to us or will be available on acceptable terms should such a need arise. We are subject to debt covenants and any failure to comply with these could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. On January 31, 2008, we entered into a Credit Agreement (the "Credit Agreement"). Under the Credit Agreement, our lender made periodic loans to us through December 31, 2008. We borrowed $16,000,000 in 2008, the maximum allowed amount under the Credit Agreement. At December 31, 2008, the borrowings were converted into a 7-year term loan. The Credit Agreement was entered into to finance the construction and validation of our new Bedford facility. Construction of the new facility commenced in the spring of 2007 and was substantially completed in mid-2008. Validation of our new manufacturing facility will continue into 2009. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in qualifying the new facility under the FDA and European Union regulations. The Credit Agreement contains certain debt covenants, representations and warranties that we must comply with. If we do not comply with the specified covenants and restrictions, we could be in default under our Credit Agreement. Our ability to comply with these provisions of our Credit Agreement governing our other indebtedness may be affected by changes in the economic or business conditions or other events beyond our control. We could become subject to product liability claims, which, if successful, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The testing, marketing and sale of human health care products entail an inherent risk of allegations of product liability, and there can be no assurance that substantial product liability claims will not be asserted against us. Although we have not received any material product liability claims to date and have an insurance policy of $5,000,000 per occurrence and $5,000,000 in the aggregate to cover such claims should they arise, there can be no assurance that material claims will not arise in the future or that our insurance will be adequate to cover all situations. Moreover, there can be no assurance that such insurance, or additional insurance, if required, will be available in the future or, if available, will be available on commercially reasonable terms. Any product liability claim, if successful, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is dependent upon hiring and retaining qualified management and technical personnel. We are highly dependent on the members of our management and technical staff, the loss of one or more of whom could have a material adverse effect on us. We have experienced a number of management changes in recent years. There can be no assurances that such management changes will not adversely affect our business. We believe that our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled, technical, managerial and manufacturing personnel. We face significant competition for such personnel from other companies, research and academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in hiring or retaining the personnel we require. The failure to hire and retain such personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to environmental regulations and any failure to comply with applicable laws could subject us to significant liabilities and harm our business. We are subject to a variety of local, state and federal government regulations relating to the storage, discharge, handling, emission, generation, manufacture and disposal of toxic, or other hazardous substances used in the manufacture of our products. Any failure by us to control the use, disposal, removal 19 Table of Contents or storage of hazardous chemicals or toxic substances could subject us to significant liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our future operating results may be harmed by economic, political and other risks relating to international sales. During the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, approximately, 27% and 25%, respectively, of our product sales were to international distributors. Our representatives, agents and distributors who sell products in international markets are subject to the laws and regulations of the foreign jurisdictions in which they operate and in which our products are sold. A number of risks are inherent in international sales and operations. For example, the volume of international sales may be limited by the imposition of government controls, export license requirements, political and/or economic instability, trade restrictions, changes in tariffs, difficulties in managing international operations, import restrictions and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Such changes in the volume of sales may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our stock price has been and may remain highly volatile, and we cannot assure you that market making in our common stock will continue. The market price of shares of our common stock may be highly volatile. Factors such as announcements of new commercial products or technological innovations by us or our competitors, disclosure of results of clinical testing or regulatory proceedings, governmental regulation and approvals, developments in patent or other proprietary rights, public concern as to the safety of products developed by us and general market conditions may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results, material announcements by us or our competitors, governmental regulatory action, conditions in the health care industry generally or in the medical products industry specifically, or other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations which have particularly affected the market prices of many medical products companies and which often have been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. Our operating results in future quarters may be below the expectations of equity research analysts and investors. In such event, the price of our common stock would likely decline, perhaps substantially. No person is under any obligation to make a market in the common stock or to publish research reports on us, and any person making a market in the common stock or publishing research reports on us may discontinue market making or publishing such reports at any time without notice. There can be no assurance that an active public market in our common stock will be sustained. Our charter documents contain anti-takeover provisions that may prevent or delay an acquisition of us. Certain provisions of our Restated Articles of Organization and Amended and Restated By-laws could have the effect of discouraging a third party from pursuing a non-negotiated takeover of us and preventing certain changes in control. These provisions include a classified Board of Directors, advance notice to the Board of Directors of stockholder proposals, limitations on the ability of stockholders to remove directors and to call stockholder meetings, the provision that vacancies on the Board of Directors be filled by vote of a majority of the remaining directors. In addition, the Board of Directors renewed a Shareholders Rights Plan in April 2008. We are also subject to Chapter 110F of the Massachusetts General Laws which, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits a Massachusetts corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any "interested stockholder" for a period of three years following the date that such stockholder became an interested stockholder. These provisions could discourage a third party from pursuing a takeover of us at a price considered attractive by many stockholders, since such provisions could have the effect of preventing or delaying a potential acquirer from acquiring control of us and our Board of Directors. 20 Table of Contents Our revenues are derived from a small number of customers, the loss of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have historically derived the majority of our revenues from a small number of customers, most of whom resell our products to end-users and most of whom are significantly larger companies than us. For the year ended December 31, 2008, four customers accounted for 85% of product revenue. We expect to continue to be dependent on a small number of large customers for the majority of our revenues. Our failure to generate as much revenue as expected from these customers or the failure of these customers to purchase our products would seriously harm our business. In addition, if present and future customers terminate their purchasing arrangements with us, significantly reduce or delay their orders, or seek to renegotiate their agreements on terms less favorable to us, our business, financial condition, and results of operations will be adversely affected. If we accept terms less favorable than the terms of the current agreement, such renegotiations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or results of operations. Furthermore, in any future negotiations we may be subject to the perceived or actual leverage that these customers may have given their relative size and importance to us. Any termination, change, reduction or delay in orders could seriously harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Accordingly, unless and until we diversify and expand our customer base, our future success will significantly depend upon the timing and size of future purchases by our largest customers and the financial and operational success of these customers. The loss of any one of our major customers or the delay of significant orders from such customers, even if only temporary, could reduce or delay our recognition of revenues, harm our reputation in the industry, and reduce our ability to accurately predict cash flow, and, as a consequence, could seriously harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2008 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 