Risk Factors Risks relating to the financial markets A decline or increased volatility in the securities markets may adversely affect our business and profitability Fluctuations in the securities markets may adversely affect sales of our participating life insurance and pension products, mutual funds, asset management services and products with financial risk borne by the policyholders (unit linked), including variable annuity products and variable life products. In particular, protracted or steep declines in the stock or bond markets typically reduce the popularity of these products. The level of volatility in the financial markets in which we invest and the overall investment returns earned in those markets substantially affect our profitability. Our investment returns, and thus our profitability, may be adversely affected from time to time by conditions affecting our specific investments and, more generally, by stock market, real estate market and other market fluctuations. Our ability to make a profit on insurance products and investment products, including fixed and guaranteed products, depends in part on the returns on investments supporting our obligations under these products and the value of specific investments may fluctuate substantially depending on the foregoing conditions. Certain types of insurance, reinsurance and investment products that we offer may expose us, in particular, to risks associated with fluctuations in financial markets, including interest sensitive or variable products such as guaranteed annuities or variable annuities which have crediting or other guarante ed rates or minimum benefits not necessarily related to prevailing market interest rates or investment returns on underlying assets. In addition, the growth of our asset management business depends to a significant extent on factors such as investment returns and risk management. Poor performance in the financial markets, in general, may adversely impact the value of the assets we manage, as well as our ability to accumulate and retain those assets because clients may withdraw assets under management under these circumstances. These trends may, in turn, adversely impact the revenues and profits that we earn from management of those assets. Losses due to defaults by others and impairment of our investment assets could negatively affect the value of our investments and reduce our profitability Third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets may not pay or perform under their obligations. These parties include the issuers whose securities we hold in our investment portfolios, borrowers under the mortgage loans we make, customers, trading counterparties, counterparties under swap and other derivative contracts, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial intermediaries. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, downturns in the economy or real estate values, operational failure or other reasons. Negative trends and investment climates in our major markets may result in an increase in investment impairments on our investment assets due to defaults, credit downgrades and overall declines in securities markets. The default of a major market participant could disrupt the securities markets or clearance and settlement systems in our major markets, which could in turn cause market declines or volatility. A failure of a major market participant could also cause some clearance and settlement systems to assess members of that system or could lead to a 9 chain of defaults that could adversely affect us. For risks relating to defaults by reinsurers and retrocessionaires to which we have ceded risks, see “Risks relating to the nature of our business and the environment in which we operate – Reinsurance may not be adequate to protect us against losses and we may incur losses due to the inability of our reinsurers to meet their obligations.” Interest rate volatility may adversely affect our profitability During periods of declining interest rates, life insurance and annuity products may be relatively more attractive to consumers, resulting in increased premium payments on products with flexible premium features, and a higher percentage of insurance policies remaining in force from year-to-year. During a low interest rate period, such as the current environment, our investment earnings may be lower because the interest earnings on our fixed income investments will likely have declined in parallel with market interest rates. In addition, mortgages and fixed maturities in our investment portfolios will be more likely to be prepaid or redeemed as borrowers seek to borrow at lower interest rates. Consequently, we may be required to reinvest the proceeds in securities bearing lower interest rates. Accordingly, during periods of declining interest rates, our profitability may suffer as the result of a decrease in the spread between interest rates credited to policyholders and returns on our investment portfolio. Conversely, in periods of increasing interest rates, surrenders of life insurance policies and fixed annuity contracts may increase as policyholders choose to forego insurance protection and seek higher investment returns. Obtaining cash to satisfy these obligations may require us to liquidate fixed maturity investments at a time when the market prices for those assets are depressed because interest rates have increased. This may result in realized investment losses. Regardless of whether we realize an investment loss, these cash payments would result in a decrease in total invested assets, and may decrease our net income. Premature withdrawals may also cause us to accelerate amortization of policy acquisition costs, which would also reduce our net income. The profitability of our spread-based businesses depends in large part upon our ability to manage interest rate spreads, and the credit and other risks inherent in our investment portfolio. For example, in Japan the movements in rates over the last decade have had a significant impact on many Japanese life insurers, including our Japanese life insurance subsidiaries, which issued long-term policies and contracts with guaranteed fixed rates during periods of significantly higher interest rates but now operate (and invest their assets) in Japan’s low interest rate deflationary environment which has resulted in “negative spread” on certain of these guaranteed rate policies and contracts. While we monitor and manage risks of this nature carefully, we cannot guaranty that we will successfully manage our interest rate spreads or the potential negative impact of those risks. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may affect our reported earnings AXA publishes its consolidated financial statements in Euro. For the year ended December 31, 2004, approximately 49% of AXA’s gross premiums and financial services revenues and 54% of AXA’s benefits, claims and other deductions were denominated in currencies other than the Euro, primarily U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, Japanese yen and Australian dollars (2003: 51% and 58%, respectively). AXA’s obligations are denominated either in Euro or other currencies, the value of which is subject to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Approximately €121 million of the cash dividends received by the Company in 2004 were paid in currencies other than the Euro (2003: €250 million). In 2004, approximately €191 million and 10 €437 million of interest payments in currencies other than the Euro were made by the Company and AXA, respectively (2003: €161 million and €451 million, respectively). While AXA seeks to manage its exposure to foreign currency fluctuations through hedging, fluctuations in the exchange rates used to translate these currencies into Euro may have a significant impact on AXA’s reported results of operations and on cash flows available to the Company from year to year. Risks relating to the nature of our business and the environment in which we operate If our established reserves for our Property & Casualty and international insurance businesses are insufficient our earnings will be adversely affected In accordance with industry practice and accounting and regulatory requirements, we establish reserves for claims and claims expenses related to our Property & Casualty and international insurance businesses. These reserves are not discounted unless final settlement has been agreed and the payments are generally fixed over a period of time. Reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but instead represent estimates, generally using actuarial projection techniques at a given accounting date. These reserve estimates are expectations of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost based on our assessment of facts and circumstances then known, review of historical settlement patterns, estimates of trends in claims severity, frequency, legal theories of liability and other factors. The process of estimating the insurance claims reserves is based on information available at the time the reserves are originally established. However, claims reserves are subject to change d ue to the number of variables which affect the ultimate cost of claims, such as: development in claims (frequency, severity and pattern of claims) between the amount estimated and actual experience; changes arising due to the time lag between the occurrence of the insured event, notification of the claim (from the insured party, a third party or a ceding company) and the final settlement (payment) of the claim, primarily attributable to long tail casualty claims that may take several years to settle due to the size and nature of the claim, and the occurrence of large natural catastrophes late in the financial year for which limited information may be available at year end; judicial trends; expenses incurred in resolving claims; regulatory and legislative changes; changes in economic condition, including inflation and foreign currency fluctuations; and changes in costs of repairs and medical costs. Many of these items are not directly quantifiable, particularly on a prospective basis. As a result, actual losses may deviate from the original gross reserves established. Consequently, the reserve may be re-estimated reflecting those changes resulting in loss reserve redundancies (in cases where the original gross claims reserve was overstated) or deficiencies (in cases where the original gross claims reserve was understated). Adjustments to reserves are reflected in the results of the periods in which the estimates are changed. In addition, certain of our Property & Casualty operations are required by local regulations in the countries in which they operate to establish catastrophe risk equalization reserves characterized by high costs and low frequency. 11 We continually review the adequacy of the established claims reserves, including emerging claims development, and actual claims compared to the original assumptions used to estimate initial gross claims reserves. Based on current information available, we believe that our claims reserves are sufficient. However, because the establishment of claims reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving estimates, we cannot assure you that ultimate losses will not materially exceed our claims reserves and have a material adverse effect on our earnings. For example, there is a high degree of uncertainty with respect to future exposure from asbestos claims because of significant issues surrounding the liabilities of insurers, diverging legal interpretations and judgments in different jurisdictions and more aggressive asbestos related litigation, particularly in the U.S. These uncertainties include the extent of coverage under insurance policies, whether or not particular claims are subject to an aggregate limit, the number of occurrences involved in particular claims and new theories of insured and insurer liability. We have established reserves for insurance and reinsurance contracts related to environmental pollution and asbestos at December 31, 2004, which represent our best estimate of ultimate claims exposure at December 31, 2004 based on known facts and current law. However, given uncertainties surrounding asbestos related claims, we cannot assure you that ultimate losses will not materially exceed our claims reserves and have a material adverse effect on our earnings. For additional information, see “Environmental Pollution, Asbestos and other Exposures” in note 15 to AXA’s consolidated financial statements included in Item 18 of this Annual Report. The claims experience on our Life and Savings businesses could be inconsistent with the assumptions we use to price our products and establish our reserves and adversely affect our earnings In our Life & Savings businesses our earnings also depend significantly upon the extent to which our actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions we use in setting the prices for our products and establishing the liabilities for obligations for technical provisions and claims. AXA uses both its own experience and industry data to develop estimates of future policy benefits including information used in pricing the insurance products and establishing the related actuarial liabilities. However, there can be no assurance that actual experience will match these estimates. To the extent that our actual benefits paid to policyholders is less favorable than the underlying assumptions used in initially establishing the future policy benefit reserves, or events or trends cause us to change the underlying assumptions, we may be required to increase our liabilities, which may reduce our net income. For example, certain variable annuity products issued or reinsured by certain of our subsidiaries conta in guaranteed minimum death benefit (“GMDB”) and guaranteed minimum income benefit (“GMIB”) features. The determination of GMDB and GMIB liabilities is based on models which involve numerous estimates and subjective judgments, including those regarding expected market rates of return and volatility, GMIB election rates, contract surrender rates and mortality experience. Determination of liabilities for our other lines of Life & Savings business, such as our annuity business, as well as our disability income business, also involve numerous assumptions and subjective judgments as to mortality and morbidity experience, investment returns, expenses, policy surrender rates, policy lapse rates, and other matters. There can be no assurance that ultimate actual experience on these products will not differ, upwards or downwards, from management’s estimates. In addition, certain acquisition costs related to the sale of new policies and the purchase of policies already in force have been re corded as assets on our balance sheet and are being 12 amortized into income over time. If the assumptions relating to various factors including the future profitability of these policies (such as future claims, investment income and expenses) and policy lapses and surrenders are not realized, the amortization of these costs could be accelerated and may even require write-offs due to unrecoverability. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our financial results may be materially adversely affected by the occurrence of catastrophes As with other Property & Casualty insurers and reinsurers, our operating results and financial condition can be adversely affected by volatile and unpredictable natural and man-made disasters, such as hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, riots, fires and explosions. Over the past several years, changing weather patterns and climatic conditions, such as global warming, have added to the unpredictability and frequency of natural disasters in certain parts of the world and created additional uncertainty as to future trends and exposures. We generally seek to reduce our exposure to these events through individual risk selection, monitoring risk accumulation and purchase of reinsurance. We have experienced in the past, and could experience in the future, material losses from such disasters and catastrophic events, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. A downgrade in the claims paying and financial strength ratings of AXA could adversely impact our business and results of operations Claims paying and financial strength ratings have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. The ratings held by AXA and its principal insurance subsidiaries are set forth in Item 4 – Ratings of this Annual Report. Rating agencies review their ratings periodically and our current ratings may not be maintained in the future. A downgrade in these ratings could adversely affect our business and results of operations including through a reduction in the number of new insurance policies that we write and/or an increase in surrender or termination of policies already in-force. A downgrade in our rating may also adversely affect our cost of raising capital. Reinsurance may not be adequate to protect us against losses and we may incur losses due to the inability of our reinsurers to meet their obligations In the normal course of business, AXA seeks to reduce the loss that may arise from catastrophes or other events that cause unfavorable underwriting results through reinsurance. Under the reinsurance arrangements, other insurers assume a portion of the losses and related expenses; however, we remain liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. Consequently, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims and we are subject to our reinsurers’ credit risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from them. Although we evaluate periodically the financial condition of our reinsurers to minimize our exposure to significant losses from reinsurer insolvencies, our reinsurers may become financially unsound by the time their financial obligation becomes due. The inability of any reinsurer to meet its financial obligations to us could negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, the availability, amount and cost of reinsurance depends on general market conditions and may vary significantly. Reinsurance may not be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates and any decrease in the amount of our reinsurance will increase our risk of loss. 13 Elimination of tax benefits for our products and other changes in laws and regulations may adversely affect sales of our insurance and investment advisory products Changes to tax laws may affect the attractiveness of certain of our products, which currently have favorable tax treatment. From time to time, governments in the jurisdictions in which we do business, including in France and the United States, have considered or implemented proposals for tax law changes that could adversely affect our products. These proposals have included, for example, proposals to tax the undistributed increase in value of life insurance policies or similar proposals that affect the tax-favored status of life insurance products in certain jurisdictions. In addition, legislation enacted in the United States in the spring of 2001 increased the size of estates exempt from the federal estate tax, phasing in reductions in the estate tax rate between 2002 and 2009 and repealing the estate tax entirely in 2010. Under the legislation, however, the estate tax will be reinstated, without the increased exemption or reduced rate, in 2011 and thereafter. This legislation, and possible future changes t o it such as extending or making permanent such repeal, could have a negative impact on the sales of estate planning products by U.S. life insurance companies including our U.S. subsidiaries. The enactment of these or other types of or other tax legislation in the various countries where we operate including proposals in the U.S. to create or favor alternative tax-favored long term savings vehicles, could result in a significant reduction in sales of our currently tax-favored products. The Property & Casualty insurance business is cyclical, which may impact our results The Property & Casualty insurance business is cyclical. Although no two cycles are the same, these cycles have typically lasted for periods ranging from two to six years. Periods of intense price competition due to excessive underwriting capacity, periods when shortages of underwriting capacity permit more favorable rate levels, consequent fluctuations in underwriting results and the occurrence of other losses characterize the conditions in these markets. Historically, Property & Casualty insurers have experienced significant fluctuations in operating results due to volatile and sometimes unpredictable developments, many of which are beyond the direct control of the insurer, including competition, frequency of occurrence or severity of catastrophic events, levels of capacity, general economic conditions and other factors. This may cause a decline in revenues at times in the cycle if we choose not to reduce our Property & Casualty product prices in order to maintain our market position because of the adverse effect on profitability of such a price reduction. We can be expected therefore to experience the effects of such cyclicality and changes in customer expectations of appropriate premium levels, the frequency or severity of claims or other loss events, or other factors affecting the Property & Casualty insurance business on the segments on which we operate that, generally, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is subject to extensive regulation in the various countries where we operate and changes in existing, or new, government regulations in these countries may have an adverse effect on our business, financial conditions or results of operations We are subject to detailed and comprehensive regulation and supervision in all the jurisdictions in which we transact business. Our insurance operations are subject to insurance laws and regulations, which are generally intended to protect policyholders, not our shareholders. Changes in existing insurance laws and regulations may materially affect the way in which we conduct our business and the products we may offer. In addition, changes in pension and employee benefit regulation, social security regulation, financial services regulation, taxation and the regulation of securities products and transactions may also adversely affect our ability to sell new policies or 14 our claims exposure on existing policies. Our asset management operations are also subject to extensive regulation in the various jurisdictions where they operate. These regulations are primarily intended to protect investors in the securities markets or investment advisory clients and generally grant supervisory authorities broad administrative powers. Changes to these laws and regulations may adversely affect our asset management operations. We are also subject to increasing regulations at the consolidated Group level under various laws and regulations such as capital adequacy, intra-group transactions, “double-gearing” of capital at both the holding company and operating company levels. We are faced with significant compliance challenges due to the fact that our regulatory environment is evolving rapidly and our supervisory authorities are assuming an increasingly active role in interpreting and enforcing regulations. We have been and may become in the future subject to regulatory investigations which, together with the civil actions often following these investigations, may affect our image, brand, relations with regulators and/or results of operations. For a discussion of regulations which affect our business, please see Item 4 “Information on the Company –Additional Factors which may affect AXA’s Business.” We cannot predict with any certainty the effect that any change in applicable laws or regulations or in their interpretation or enforcement, or any enactment of future regulation may have on the business, financial condition or results of operations of our various businesses whether by restructuring these activities, imposing increased costs or otherwise. Certain business practices of the insurance industry have become the subject of regulatory investigations which have resulted in negative publicity and may have a material adverse impact on the industry and us Recently, the insurance industry has been the subject of litigation, investigations and regulatory activity by various insurance, governmental and enforcement authorities concerning practices within the insurance industry. These practices include the payment of contingent commissions by insurance companies to insurance brokers and agents and the extent to which such compensation has been disclosed, the solicitation and provision of fictitious or inflated quotes, the use of inducements to brokers or companies in the sale of group insurance products, and the accounting treatment of finite reinsurance or other non-traditional or loss-mitigation insurance products. AXA Re has received subpoenas, inquiries and requests for documents and other information from the SEC, New York Attorney General, Federal Bureau of Investigations / Department of Justice and various other U.S. regulators and law enforcement authorities seeking information relating to (i) specific reinsurance transactions with MBIA concerning the 1998 bankruptcy of Allegheny Health, Education and Research Foundation, and (ii) the purchase and/or sale of non-traditional products (including finite reinsurance) by AXA Re and its affiliates. Certain of the Company’s other subsidiaries with operations in the United States have also received subpoenas, inquiries and requests for documents or other information, principally focussed on purchases and/or sales of non-traditional products (including finite reinsurance), in connection with these on-going investigations. We cannot predict at this time the effect that current litigation, investigations and regulatory activity, will have on the insurance industry or our business. It is possible that we may become subject to investigations or have lawsuits filed against us in connection with these matters which may adversely affect our image, sales, earnings or financial condition. 15 We are involved in various legal proceedings and regulatory investigations and examinations and may be involved in more in the future, any one or combination of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations We have been named as defendants in lawsuits (both class action and individual), are subject to regulatory investigations or examinations and/or are involved in similar actions or proceedings arising in the various jurisdictions where they do business. These actions arise in various contexts including in connection with our activities as an insurer, securities issuer, employer, investment advisor, investor and taxpayer. Certain of these lawsuits and investigations seek significant or unspecified amounts of damages, including punitive damages, and certain of the regulatory authorities involved in these investigations have very substantial powers over the conduct and operations of our business. Due to the nature of certain of these lawsuits and investigations, we cannot make an estimate of loss or predict with any certainty the potential impact of these suits or investigations on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Please see Item 18, Note 28 – “Litigation” and Item 4 “Information on the Company –Additional Factors which may affect AXA’s Business” of this Annual Report for additional information on these matters. We face increased competition in all of our business lines including in the global financial services industry as a result of continuing consolidation We face strong and increasing competition in all our business lines. Our competitors include mutual funds companies, asset management firms, commercial banks and other insurance companies, many of which are regulated differently than we are and offer alternative products or more competitive pricing than we do. The recent consolidation in the global financial services industry has also enhanced the competitive position of some of our competitors by broadening the range of their products and services, and increasing their distribution channels and their access to capital. In addition, development of alternative distribution channels for certain types of insurance and securities products, including through the internet, may result in increasing competition as well as pressure on margins for certain types of products. These competitive pressures could result in increased pricing pressures on a number of our products and services, particularly as competitors seek to win market share, and may harm our ability to m aintain or increase our profitability. Increased geopolitical risks following the terrorist attacks on the United States and any future terrorist attacks may have a continuing negative impact on certain of our businesses We cannot assess with any degree of certainty the future effects on our businesses of terrorist attacks that have occurred and may occur in the future throughout the world and other responsive actions, including war. The terrorist attacks and responsive actions in recent years have significantly adversely affected general economic, financial market and political conditions, increasing many of the risks in our businesses noted in the previous risk factors. This may have a negative effect on our businesses and results of operations over time. Our general account investment portfolios include investments in industries that we believe may be adversely affected by the terrorist attacks and responsive actions, including airlines, lodging and entertainment companies and non-life insurance companies. The effect of these events on the valuation of these investments is uncertain and could lead 16 to impairments due to other-than-temporary declines in the value of investments. The cost, and possibly, the availability, in the future of reinsurance covering terrorist attacks for our various insurance operations is uncertain. In addition, the rating agencies could reexamine the ratings affecting the insurance industry generally, including our companies. As a global business, we are exposed to different local political, regulatory, economic conditions, business risks and challenges which may affect the demand for our products and services, the value of our investments portfolio and the credit quality of local counterparties We offer our products and services in Europe, North America, the Asia/Pacific zone, the Middle East and Africa through wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries, joint ventures, companies in which we hold a noncontrolling equity stake, agents and independent contractors. Our international operations expose us to different local political, regulatory, business and financial risks and challenges which may affect the demand for our products and services, the value of our investment portfolio, the required levels of our capital and surplus, and the credit quality of local counterparties. These risks include, for example, political, social or economic instability in countries in which we operate, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, credit risks of our local borrowers and counterparties, lack of local business experience in certain markets, risks associated with the exposure to insurance industry insolvencies through policyholder guarantee funds or similar mechanisms set up in foreign markets and, in certain cases, risks associated with the potential incompatibility with foreign partners, especially in countries in which we are conducting business through entities we do not control. Our expansion in emerging markets requires us to respond to rapid changes in market conditions in these countries. Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed in differing economic, social and political conditions. We may not continue to succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies that are effective in each location where we do business. Finally, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially affected from time to time by the general economic conditions such as the levels of employment, consumer lending or inflation, in the countries in which we operate. Inadequate or failed processes or systems, human factors or external events may adversely affect our profitability, reputation or operational effectiveness Operational risk is inherent in our business and can manifest itself in various ways including business interruption, poor vendor performance, information systems malfunctions or failures, regulatory breaches, human errors, employee misconduct, and/or external fraud. These events can potentially result in financial loss, harm to our reputation and/or hinder our operational effectiveness. Management attempts to control these risks and keep operational risk at appropriate levels by maintaining a sound and well controlled environment in light of the characteristics of our business, the markets and regulatory environment in which we operate. Notwithstanding these control measures, operation risk is part of the business environment in which we operate and we may incur losses from time to time due to these types or risks. 17 Other risks relating to our operations As a holding company, we are dependent upon our subsidiaries to cover our operating expenses and dividend payments Our insurance and financial services operations are generally conducted through direct and indirect subsidiaries. As a holding company, our principal sources of funds are dividends from subsidiaries and funds that may be raised from time to time through the issuance of debt or equity securities or through bank or other borrowings. We expect that dividends received from subsidiaries will continue to cover our operating expenses, including (i) interest payments on our outstanding financing, operating and subordinated debt and (ii) dividend payments with respect to our outstanding ordinary shares during each of the next three years. We expect that future acquisitions and strategic investments will be funded from available cash flow remaining after payment of dividends and operating expenses (including interest expense), cash on hand from previous securities offerings, proceeds of future offerings of securities, and proceeds from the sale of non-core assets. Certain of our significant subsidiaries, including AXA France Assurance, AXA Financial, AXA UK Holdings, AXA Japan, AXA Asia Pacific Holdings, and AXA Germany, are also holding companies and are dependent on dividends from their own subsidiaries for funds to meet their obligations. In addition, certain of our principal insurance subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on the amount of dividends and debt repayments that can be paid to us and our affiliates. While we do not believe that these restrictions currently constitute a material limitation on our ability to meet our obligations or pay dividends on our shares, these restrictions may constitute a material limitation in the future. For further detail, see Item 5 under “Liquidity and Capital Resources” and also note 30 “Dividends restrictions and minimum capital requirements” to AXA’s consolidated financial statements included in Item 18 of this Annual Report. Our French GAAP results may differ significantly from our U.S. GAAP results The Company’s primary financial statements are in French GAAP until December 31, 2004, after which the Company will report its financial statements according to IFRS. For purposes of its listing on the NYSE, the Company reconciles its French GAAP annual financial results to U.S. GAAP each year. There are significant differences between French GAAP and U.S. GAAP which lead to different results under the two systems of accounting. Differences in AXA’s consolidated French GAAP and U.S. GAAP results have been significant over the last several years. In 2004, the most significant differences related primarily to differing rules with respect to treatment of goodwill, impairments for “other-than-temporary” declines in the value of fixed maturity and equity securities, recoverability of deferred tax assets, valuation of holdings in mutual funds, the accounting for derivatives instruments in hedging activities and the accounting for UK “With-Profits” contracts. Our transition to international accounting standards may affect our operating results Due to the adoption by the European Union’s Council of a regulation, effective on January 1, 2005, requiring listed European companies to prepare consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial 18 Reporting Standards (“IFRS”), we are currently converting our accounting standards from French GAAP into IFRS, as described in note 34 (m) included in Item 18 of this Annual Report. While we do not believe that this transition to IFRS will have a material adverse effect on our reported financial condition or results of operations, there are various significant differences between French GAAP and IFRS. On June 21, 2005 AXA announced its 2004 financial results under IFRS. Under IFRS, AXA's net income for the year ended December 31, 2004 was € 3.8 billion (compared to € 2.5 billion under French GAAP) and its shareholders equity was €28.5 billion ( compared to € 26.2 billion under French GAAP). AXA's June 21 IFRS press release has been filed with the SEC on a Form 6-K and is available on the SEC's EDGAR website (www.sec.gov). Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley act entails significant expenditure and managerial attention, and non-compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley act may adversely affect us The US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 that became law in July 2002 and rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the NYSE require changes to some of our accounting and corporate governance practices, including the requirement that we issue, for the year ending December 31, 2006 and future years, a report on our internal controls over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We expect that compliance with the new rules and regulations will continue to require significant management attention and will result in increased accounting, legal and other costs. In addition, because Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires our auditors to audit and issue a report on our internal controls over financial reporting, undertaking significant IT, internal restructuring, corporate development or other initiatives that may affect our internal control environment, may become more difficult and/or costly, particularly during periods when our internal controls over financial reporting are undergoing audit. This may have an adverse effect on our business and/or our ability to compete with our competitors who are not subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We cannot predict the outcome of the Section 404 process and whether changes will be required to our internal controls. In the event we are unable to maintain or achieve Compliance with Section 404 and other provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules, it may have a material adverse effect on us. Our acquisitions may divert management attention and other resources and involve risks of undisclosed liabilities and integration issues In recent years we have completed a number of acquisitions around the world and we may make further acquisitions in the future. Growth by acquisition involves risks that could adversely affect our operating results, including the substantial amount of management time that may be diverted from operations to pursue and complete acquisitions, difficulties in managing and integrating the additional operations and personnel of acquired companies, significant delays in completing the integration of acquired companies and the potential loss of key employees or customers of these companies. In connection with certain of our mergers and acquisitions, we have experienced difficulties in rationalizing and integrating multiple information technology (“IT”) systems of acquired companies, including accounting information systems from different vendors such as general ledger packages, with our existing IT systems. Integration and rationalization of multiple and sometimes outdated IT systems in acquired companies may cause various issues including delay and unforeseen costs in the integration process, the necessity for extensive management attention and resources, as well as issues in the timely production of financial information required for inclusion in consolidated financial statements prepared on a local GAAP, French GAAP, IFRS and/or U.S. GAAP basis. Our acquisitions could also result in the incurrence of additional indebtedness, costs, contingent liabilities and amortization expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets, all of which could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. Future acquisitions may also have a dilutive effect on the ownership and voting percentages of existing shareholders. 19 The businesses we have acquired include life & savings, property & casualty insurance, asset management and retail banking operations. There could be unforeseen liabilities that arise out of the businesses we have acquired and may acquire in the future which may not be covered by, or exceed the amount of, the indemnification obligations of sellers. We may have contingent liabilities from discontinued, divested and run-off businesses and may incur other off-balance sheet liabilities that may result in income statement charges We may from time to time retain insurance or reinsurance obligations and other contingent liabilities in connection with our divestiture, liquidation or run-off of various businesses and our reserves for these obligations and liabilities may prove to be inadequate. The costs and liabilities associated with the divested and run-off businesses and other contingent liabilities could cause us to take additional charges that could be material to our results of operations. We may also from time to time in the course of our business give guarantees and enter into derivative and other types of off balance sheet transactions that could result in income statement charges. For additional information, see note 26, “Off Balance Sheet Commitments” and also note 25 “Financial Instruments”, to AXA’s consolidated financial statements included in Item 18 of this Annual Report. The failure to maintain and modernize our information systems could adversely affect our business Our business depends significantly on effective information systems, and we have many different information systems for our various businesses. We must commit significant resources to maintain, enhance our existing information systems and develop new ones in order to keep pace with the continuing changes in the information technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards and changing customer preferences. If we do not maintain adequate information systems we may not be able to gather and rely on adequate information to base our pricing, underwriting and reserving decisions. We may also have difficulties to attract new customers and may loose existing ones. In addition, underperforming information systems could cause us to become subject to a higher number of customer, provider and agent disputes, may increase our litigation and regulations exposure and make us incur higher administrative expenses, including remediation costs. Significant shareholders of AXA may have interests conflicting with your interests The Mutuelles AXA, three French mutual insurance companies, acting as a group, owned at February 28, 2005, directly and indirectly through FINAXA, a holding company they control, approximately 20.34% of the issued ordinary shares of AXA representing approximately 32.20% of its voting power. Most of the shares owned by the Mutuelles AXA have double voting rights pursuant to the provisions of AXA’s statuts, see “Item 10 – Additional Information – Certain Rights of AXA’s shareholders – Voting Rights” of this Annual Report. The Mutuelles AXA are parties to agreements pursuant to which they have stated their intention to collectively exercise majority control over Finaxa. On April 19, 2005, the Supervisory Board of AXA and the Board of Directors of FINAXA announced their intention to merge FINAXA into AXA. Following the merger, Mutuelles AXA, which currently own 2.72% of AXA outstanding shares representing 4.38% of AXA voting rights and 71.69% of FINAXA outstanding shares repres enting 80.53% of FINAXA voting rights, would become the principal AXA shareholder, holding less than 14% of AXA ordinary shares representing less than 23% of voting rights. It is expected that the merger will be presented 20 to both AXA and FINAXA shareholders for approval before the end of 2005. Given the long-term nature of their relationship with AXA, we cannot assure you that the interests of the Mutuelles AXA will not, from time to time, conflict with your interests as a shareholder. For example, even though the Mutuelles do not hold a majority of the total voting power in AXA, a decision by the Mutuelles AXA to decline or deter a future offer to acquire control of AXA, which other shareholders may find attractive, may prevent other shareholders from realizing a control premium for their AXA ordinary shares or ADRs. The Mutuelles AXA may decide to increase their interest in AXA or to sell all or a portion of the ordinary shares they own at some future date. Risks related to ownership of AXA ADSs or ordinary shares The trading price of AXA ADSs and dividends paid on AXA ADSs may be materially adversely affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate for converting euro into U.S. dollars Fluctuations in the exchange rate for converting Euro into U.S. dollars may affect the value of AXA ADSs. Specifically, as the relative value of the Euro against the U.S. dollar declines, each of the following values will also decline: the U.S. dollar equivalent of the Euro trading price of AXA ordinary shares on the Paris Bourse, which may consequently cause the trading price of AXA ADSs in the United States to also decline; the U.S. dollar equivalent of the proceeds that a holder of AXA ADSs would receive upon the sale in France of any AXA ordinary shares withdrawn from the depositary; and the U.S. dollar equivalent of cash dividends paid in Euro on the AXA ordinary shares represented by the AXA ADSs. The holders of AXA ADSs may not be able to exercise their voting rights due to delays in notification to and by the depositary The depositary for the AXA ADSs may not receive voting materials for AXA ordinary shares represented by AXA ADSs in time to ensure that holders of AXA ADSs can instruct the depositary to vote their shares. In addition, the depositary’s liability to holders of AXA ADSs for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out voting instructions is limited by the deposit agreement governing the AXA American Depositary Receipt facility. As a result, holders of AXA ADSs may not be able to exercise their right to vote and may not have any recourse against the depositary or AXA if their shares are not voted as they have requested. Holders of AXA ADSs will have limited recourse if AXA or the depositary fails to meet their obligations under the deposit agreement or if they wish to involve AXA or the depositary in a legal proceeding The deposit agreement expressly limits the obligations and liability of AXA and the depositary. Neither AXA nor the depositary will be liable if they: are prevented, delayed or forbidden from performing any obligation by circumstances beyond their control, exercise or fail to exercise discretion under the deposit agreement, or take any action based upon the advice of, or information from, legal counsel, accountants, any person presenting ordinary shares for deposit, any holder or owner of an AXA ADR or any other person believed by it in good faith to be competent to give such advice or information. 21 In addition, the depositary and AXA only have the obligation to participate in any action, suit or other proceeding with respect to the AXA ADSs which may involve them in expense or liability only if they are indemnified. These provisions of the deposit agreement will limit the ability of holders of AXA ADSs to obtain recourse if AXA or the depositary fails to meet their obligations under the deposit agreement or if they wish to involve AXA or the depositary in a legal proceeding. The holders of AXA ADSs in the United States may not be able to participate in offerings of rights, warrants or similar securities to holders of our ordinary shares on the same terms and conditions as our ordinary shareholders In the event that we offer rights, warrants or similar securities to the holders of our ordinary shares or distribute a dividend payable, in whole or in part, in securities, the Deposit Agreement provides that the Depositary (after consultation with AXA) shall have discretion as to the procedure to be followed in making such rights or other securities available to ADR holders including disposing of such rights or other securities and distributing the net proceeds in U.S. dollars to ADR holders. Given the significant number of AXA’s ADR holders in the U.S., AXA generally would be required to register with the SEC any public offering of rights, warrants or other securities made to its U.S. ADR holders unless an exemption from the registration requirements of the U.S. securities laws is available. Registering such an offering with the SEC can be a lengthy process which may be inconsistent with the timetable for a global capital raising operation. Consequently, we have in the past and may in the future elec t not to make such an offer in the United States, including to our ADR holders in the United States but rather to conduct such an offering in an “offshore” transaction in accordance with Regulation “S” under the Securities Act of 1933. Consequently, there can be no assurance that our ADR holders will be able to participate in such an offering in the same manner as our ordinary shareholders. Our ADS and ordinary share price could be volatile and could drop unexpectedly and you may not be able to sell your ADRs or ordinary shares at or above the price you paid The price at which our ADSs and ordinary shares will trade may be influenced by a large number of factors, some of which will be specific to us and our operations and some of which will be related to the insurance industry and equity markets generally. As a result of these factors, you may not be able to resell your ADSs or ordinary shares at or above the price which you paid for them. In particular, the following factors, in addition to other risk factors described in this section, may have a significant impact on the market price of our ADSs or ordinary shares: investor perception of our Company, including actual or anticipated variations in our revenues or operating results; announcement by us of intended acquisitions, disposals or financings or speculation about such acquisitions, disposals or financings; changes in our dividend policy, which could result from changes in our cash flow and capital position; sales of blocks of our shares by significant shareholders; hedging activities on our shares; a downgrade or rumored downgrade of our credit or financial strength ratings, including placement on credit watch; potential litigation involving us, the insurance or asset management industries generally; changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities research analysts; 22 fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and interest rates; the performance of other companies in the financial services’ sector; regulatory developments in the principal markets in which we operate; international political and economic conditions, including the effects of terrorist attacks, military operations and other developments stemming from such events and the uncertainty related to these developments; and general economic and market conditions. As a “foreign private issuer” in the U.S., AXA is exempt from a number of rules under the U.S. securities laws and is permitted to file less information with the SEC As a “foreign private issuer,” AXA is exempt from rules under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) that impose certain disclosure and procedural requirements for proxy solicitations under Section 14 of the Exchange Act. In addition, AXA’s officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and “short-swing” profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules under the Exchange Act with respect to their purchases and sales of AXA ordinary shares and ADRs. Moreover, AXA is not required to file periodic reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as U.S. companies whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act, nor is it required to comply with Regulation FD, which restricts the selective disclosure of material information. Accordingly, there may be less information concerning AXA publicly available than there is for U.S. public companies. Judgments of U.S. courts may not be enforceable against us Judgment of U.S. courts, including those predicated on the civil liability provisions of the Federal securities laws of the United States, may not be enforceable in French courts. As a result, our shareholders who obtain a judgment against us in the United States may not be able to require us to pay the amount of the judgment. 