Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following factors and the other information contained in this Report, including the information incorporated by reference into this Report. The following is a summary of the risks that may affect some or all of our activities and which may make an investment in our securities risky. If any of the events described below occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. This summary is not exhaustive. Additional risks and uncertainties that the Company is unaware of or that the Company currently deems immaterial may in the future have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. In light of the current global economic downturn, certain of these risks may be exacerbated, either individually or when taken together. For example, oil and gas prices and margins are likely to remain lower than in the first half of 2008 due to reduced demand. At the same time, governments may be facing greater pressure on public finances leading to the risk of increased taxation. These and other factors may negatively affect the demand and prices for energy which may negatively impact future expenditures by participants in the oil and gas industry and thereby also the demand for our services. In addition, the financial and economic situation may have a negative impact on third parties with whom we do, or may do, business and thereby increase the risk that our counterparties do not perform on time or at all. Furthermore, if there is an extended period of constraint in the capital markets, with debt markets in particular experiencing lack of liquidity, at a time when cash flows from our business operations may be under pressure, this may impact our ability to maintain our long-term investment program. Any of these factors may affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 6 Table of Contents Operational Risks Our business is affected by expenditures by participants in the oil and gas industry and these levels of expenditure may be reduced by the impact of the global economic downturn. Demand for our services depends on expenditures by participants in the oil and gas industry and particularly on capital expenditure budgets of the companies engaged in the exploration, development and production of offshore oil and gas. This is a factor of particular relevance in the current global economic downturn whereby oil and gas prices and margins are likely to remain lower than in the first half of 2008 due to reduced demand. Due to consolidation in recent years, there are now fewer and larger oil and gas companies that control expenditures for the types of services and products that we and our competitors provide, meaning that we and our competitors would be harder hit should a major international or national oil and gas company significantly scale back its project expenditure program. These factors may lead to intensified competition for market share and available margin, which may lead to a reduction in either the demand for our services or the prices which we are able to charge for our services, with consequential potential adverse effects on our revenue and profits. Offshore oil and gas field capital expenditures are also influenced by many other factors beyond our control, including: • prices of oil and gas and anticipated changes in world oil and gas demand—in the last twelve months oil prices have ranged from a record high of $147 a barrel in July 2008 to below $40 a barrel more recently following a significant reduction in the likely short-term demand for energy; • the discovery rate of new offshore oil and gas reserves—in the last two years this has been driven by the availability of rigs; • the economic feasibility of developing particular offshore oil and gas fields—lower future oil prices may render particular offshore oil and gas fields uneconomical to develop; • the production from existing producing oil and gas fields; • political and economic conditions in areas where offshore oil and gas exploration and development may occur; • governmental regulations regarding environmental protection and the oil and gas industry generally, including policies regarding the exploration for, pricing and production and development of their oil and gas reserves; and • the ability of oil and gas companies to access or generate capital and the cost of such capital—recently some major oil companies have cut back their capital expenditure programs as a consequence of the current global economic downturn. There might be delays or cancellation of projects included in our backlog, which may adversely affect our future revenue. The dollar amount of our backlog does not necessarily indicate actual future revenue or earnings related to the performance of that work. Backlog refers to expected future revenue under signed contracts, which we have determined are likely to be performed. During the course of a project, the backlog is adjusted to take account of alterations to the scope of work under approved variation orders and contract extensions. Although the backlog represents only business that we consider to be firm, cancellations, delays or scope adjustments have occurred in the past and are likely to occur in the future, in particular if the current economic downturn continues. Due to factors outside our control, such as changes in project scope and schedule, we cannot predict with certainty when or the extent to which projects included in our backlog will be performed, if at all. Delays, changes in scope or cancellations of projects in our backlog may adversely affect our future revenue. We face competition that could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. The offshore oil and gas services business is highly competitive, and offshore contractors compete intensely for available projects. Contracts for our services are generally awarded on a competitive bid basis, and although clients may consider, among other things, the availability and capability of equipment and the reputation and 7 Table of Contents experience of the contractor, price is a primary factor in determining which contractor is awarded a contract. This intense competition could result in pricing pressures, lower sales and reduced margins that would have an adverse effect on our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. Our international operations expose us to political, social and economic instability in the developing countries in which we operate and other risks inherent in international business, any of which could increase our costs, reduce our future growth opportunities and thereby affect our operating results. Our operations in the Acergy Africa and Mediterranean (“AFMED”), Acergy South America (“SAM”) and Acergy Asia and Middle East (“AME”) segments are mainly performed in emerging markets such as Angola, Congo, Nigeria, Brazil and Vietnam. These segments accounted for approximately 66% of our revenue from continuing operations in fiscal year 2008 (2007: 71%) and 48% of our net operating income from continuing operations in fiscal year 2008 (2007: 57%). Operations in these emerging markets present risks including: • economic instability, which could make it difficult for us to anticipate future business conditions in these markets; • political instability, which could discourage investment and complicate our dealings with governments; • increased risk of fraud and political corruption if financial controls and anti-fraud are not well-established and enforced; • boycotts and embargoes that may be imposed by the international community on countries in which we operate; • requirements imposed by local governments that we use local suppliers or subcontractors, which may not be able to perform as required; • labor unrest, particularly in Nigeria and Angola where our large workforces are prone to strike action; • disruptions due to civil war, terrorist activities, piracy, election outcomes, shortage of commodities, power interruptions or inflation; • the imposition of unexpected taxes or other payments on our revenue in these markets; and • the introduction of exchange controls and other restrictions by foreign governments. Unanticipated political events or social disturbances in developing or less developed countries, including labor unrest or terrorist activities, could cause cost overruns on projects for which we are not reimbursed or delays in execution of projects which lead to delayed revenue or potential contractual penalties. Additionally, to the extent a project is delayed or becomes more costly in a manner that we cannot recover, there would be an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Political or social instability could also inhibit offshore exploration or capital expenditures by our clients. Such instability could result in fewer new project tenders meeting our criteria thereby reducing growth opportunities for our business. We depend on certain significant clients and long-term contracts and the loss of one or more significant clients, the failure to replace or enter into new long-term contracts or the inability of one or more significant clients to perform under such contracts could adversely affect our operating results. In fiscal year 2008 ExxonMobil accounted for approximately 28% of our revenue from continuing operations, with Statoil ASA (“Statoil”) and Chevron Texaco accounting for a further 12% and 9%, respectively. In fiscal year 2007, BP plc (“BP”) accounted for approximately 24% of our net operating income from continuing operations, with ExxonMobil and Total Fina Elf (“Total”) accounting for a further 13% and 10%, respectively. Our ten largest clients during fiscal year 2008 accounted for approximately 77% (2007: 80%) of our revenue from continuing operations, and during the last two fiscal years six clients, Total, Statoil, Petróleo 8 Table of Contents Brasileiro SA (“Petrobras”), ExxonMobil, Chevron Texaco and BP consistently numbered among our ten largest clients. Revenue from our largest clients is often related to specific long-term contracts that, upon completion, may not be replaced by contracts of equivalent size. Revenue from continuing operations that was derived from long-term contracts was approximately 96% in fiscal year 2008 (2007: 96%). Our inability to replace significant long-term projects on similar terms or the loss of any one or more of our significant clients or a substantial decrease in demand by our significant clients could result in a substantial loss of revenue which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. As of November 30, 2008 the amount of total receivables from the Group’s top five clients was $166.3 million (2007: $216.0 million). If any of our major clients experience significant financial difficulties, future receivables due from these clients may not be recoverable. We are exposed to substantial hazards, risks and delays that are inherent in the offshore services business for which liabilities may potentially exceed our insurance coverage and contractual indemnity provisions. Our operations are subject to all the risks normally associated with offshore construction and services and could result in injury or death to personnel or third parties, damage to or loss of property and/or suspension of operations. The Group’s operations are conducted in hazardous environments where accidents involving catastrophic damage or loss of life could result, and such an event may result in our being named a defendant in lawsuits asserting large claims. The Group insures for liability arising from our operations, including death or injury to employees or third parties, loss of or damage to third-party property and pollution. All such insurance is carried at levels of coverage and deductibles that we consider financially prudent, although there can be no assurance that the amount of insurance we carry is sufficient to protect us fully in all events. A successful liability claim for which we are underinsured or uninsured could have a material adverse effect on us. We generally seek to obtain indemnity agreements from our clients requiring them to hold us harmless in the event of damage to existing facilities, loss of production or liability for pollution. Such contractual indemnification, however, does not generally cover liability resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of, or violation of law by, our employees or subcontractors. Additionally, if we suffer a loss for which we are entitled to indemnity, we are dependent on our client’s ability to satisfy its indemnity obligation. If the client cannot satisfy its obligation, we could suffer losses. We may experience equipment or mechanical failures, which could increase costs, impair revenue and result in penalties for failure to meet project completion requirements. The successful execution of contracts requires a high degree of reliability of our ships, barges and equipment. Breakdowns not only add to the costs of executing a project, but they can also delay the completion of subsequent contracts, which are scheduled to utilize the same assets. Although the high utilization of our asset base in recent periods reflects strong activity, it also puts a strain on our ability to avoid such mechanical failures. The Group operates a scheduled maintenance program in order to keep all assets in good working order, but despite this breakdowns can and do occur. For example, in the first quarter of fiscal year 2009, aside from the continued planned dry dock of the Acergy Polaris we experienced a further 69 lost ship days (total available days for the quarter were 1,037) due to either unscheduled preventative maintenance or actual mechanical or equipment failures on vessels. If we experience equipment or mechanical failures with our major assets, such problems could increase costs, impair revenue and result in penalties for failure to meet project completion requirements, which may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our results may fluctuate due to adverse weather conditions. A substantial portion of our revenue from continuing operations is generated from work performed offshore West Africa and in fiscal year 2008, 47% of our revenue was generated from work performed in this region (2007: 58%). Optimal weather conditions offshore West Africa normally exist only from October to April and most offshore operations in this region are scheduled for that period. Further, in the North Sea, where we also 9 Table of Contents generate a significant portion of revenue from continuing operations, accounting for approximately 33% in fiscal year 2008 (2007: 29%), adverse weather conditions during the winter months in this region usually result in low levels of offshore activity. Additionally, during certain periods of the year, we may encounter adverse weather conditions such as tropical storms. During periods of curtailed activity due to adverse weather conditions, we continue to incur operating expenses, but our revenue from operations is delayed or reduced. Unexpected costs may adversely affect the amount we realize from lump-sum contracts. A significant proportion of our business is performed on a lump-sum or turnkey basis. Approximately 90% of our revenue from continuing operations was derived from lump-sum contracts in fiscal year 2008 (2007: 85%). Long-term lump-sum contracts, most of which are awarded on a competitive bidding basis, are inherently risky because of the possibility that we might incur costs that we did not expect at the time of bidding, including the cost of satisfying post-completion warranty obligations. Such unexpected costs can result in losses on fixed price contracts. Additionally, because we employ the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, such unexpected costs could require us to take charges against income to reflect properly the level of completion of a project and to recognize loss-making projects immediately. For example, in fiscal year 2007 we experienced significant local contractor cost overruns in our Mexilhao Trunkline project relating to logistic, transportation and operations, which resulted in a loss being recognized on the project with total negative revisions to the project result in fiscal year 2007 of $48.9 million. Increases of $27.8 million in the estimated costs to complete the Mexilhao Trunkline project also occurred in fiscal year 2008, and these costs were recognized as a charge against income in fiscal 2008 because the project was classified as loss making. The cost and gross profit realized on lump-sum or turnkey contracts can vary from those expected because of changes beyond our control, including but not limited to: • unanticipated technical problems with the equipment we are supplying or developing which may require that we spend our own money to remedy the problem; • unanticipated problems with trenching, ploughing, dredging, back-filling, rock dumping and other activities which depend upon seabed or subsoil conditions; • unanticipated changes in the costs of components, materials or labor; • changes in governmental regulations affecting our activities or unanticipated difficulties in obtaining required governmental permits or approvals; • project modifications and variation orders creating unanticipated costs; • delays caused by local weather; • suppliers’ or subcontractors’ failure to perform in a timely manner; and • logistics costs. These risks are exacerbated if the duration of the project is long-term, where it may be more likely that the circumstances upon which we originally bid and developed a price will change in a manner that increases our costs. Our long-term projects often subject us to penalties if we cannot complete portions of the projects in accordance with agreed-upon time limits. If we experience difficulties resolving claims and variation orders, this may adversely impact our cash flows and liquidity. In the ordinary course of our business, we must negotiate with our clients to resolve claims and variation orders. A “claim” is an amount in excess of the agreed contract price (or amount not included in the original contract price) that a contractor seeks to collect from clients or others for client-caused delays, errors in specifications and designs, contract terminations, variation orders in dispute or unapproved or other causes of unanticipated additional costs. A “variation order” is a written change to the provisions of a project contract, which may be initiated by either us or our client. It is customary that, where a variation to the project scope or 10 Table of Contents specifications is required, we continue to execute the project to completion, although we may not have reached a precise agreement with our client on the financial responsibilities of all parties. We often try to resolve these later by negotiating claims and variation orders. In the past, we have had significant difficulties in resolving certain claims and variation orders and collecting amounts that we believed were owed to us. To illustrate our exposure to claims and variation orders in each of the fiscal years 2005 through 2008, we recognized revenue ranging from $500 million to $1 billion that was generated from increased scope and escalations on existing projects. Difficulties in resolving claims and variation orders for current or future projects may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We may be liable to third parties for the failure of our joint venture partners to fulfill their obligations. Under some of our project agreements and joint venture agreements, we may be jointly and severable liable to the client for the performance of the entire contract and any non-performance by our subcontractors or partners in the project is our responsibility. If our project partner or subcontractor in such arrangement fails to fulfill its obligations, we could have to carry the resultant liability toward the client and would have to rely on our ability to obtain reimbursement from our project partner or subcontractor for our costs, over and above the reimbursement from the client. Obtaining such reimbursement could require us to engage in litigation and could take a substantial amount of time. If our partner or subcontractor became insolvent or ceased operations, we might not be able to obtain reimbursement. We could be adversely affected if we fail to keep pace with the technological changes, and changes in technology could result in write-downs of assets. Our clients are seeking to develop oil and gas fields in increasingly deeper waters and more challenging offshore environments. To meet our clients’ needs, we must continuously develop new, and update existing technology for the installation, repair and maintenance of offshore structures. In addition, rapid and frequent technology and market demand changes can render existing technologies obsolete, requiring substantial new capital expenditures and write-downs of assets. Any failure by us to anticipate or to respond adequately and timely to changing technology, market demands and client requirements could adversely affect our business and financial results. If we are unable to attract and retain skilled workers in a competitive environment, our business will be adversely affected. We require highly skilled personnel, in particular our offshore construction crews, including divers and remotely operated vehicle (“ROV”) specialists, to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. Failure to attract or retain such qualified personnel could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We may experience constraints in our supply chain due to future increases in expenditure by our clients in the industry. Future market conditions, including future increases in capital expenditure by our clients, may trigger capacity constraints in the material, equipment and sub-contracted construction supply chains, in particular increases in the price of raw materials and equipment, stretched construction and installation capacity and longer equipment delivery lead times may create additional project execution risks. Such supply chain bottlenecks could negatively affect our results of operations. Our international operations expose us to the risk of fluctuations in currency exchange rates. The revenue and costs of operations and financial position of many of our non-US subsidiaries are measured initially in the local currencies of countries in which those subsidiaries reside. That financial information is then translated into US dollars (our reporting currency) at the applicable exchange rates for inclusion in the 11 Table of Contents Consolidated Financial Statements. In fiscal year 2008, approximately 74% of our revenue from continuing operations was generated in local currencies and translated into US dollars (2007: 72%). In fiscal year 2008, approximately 13% of our revenue from continuing operations was generated in Euros, 12% in British pounds sterling and 19% in Norwegian krone. In fiscal year 2007, the corresponding percentages were 20%, 18% and 13%, respectively. Our principal currency exposure is to movements in the US dollar against other currencies because the US dollar is the Group’s reporting currency, the functional currency of many of our subsidiaries and the transaction currency of a significant volume of the Group’s cash flows. The exchange rate between these currencies and the US dollar may fluctuate substantially, which could have a significant translation effect on our reported consolidated results of operations and financial position. Based on our sensitivity analyses, a 10% increase in the US dollar exchange rate against other currencies in which the Group transacts business would increase net foreign currency exchange gains by $6.5 million (2007: $7.3 million) and would reduce net assets by $49.2 million (2007: $29.3 million). For a discussion of our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations, see Item 11. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Exposure of Risk—Market Risk—Foreign currency risk management.” In addition, we are subject to currency risk exposure when our revenue is denominated in currencies that are different from those in which our expenses are incurred. In this case, if the value of the currency in which our revenue is recorded weakens relative to the currency in which we incur expenses, then there is an adverse impact on our profit margin. We attempt to manage our foreign currency exchange exposure by using derivative instruments to hedge revenue or expenditure that is not in the functional currency of a given subsidiary. However, we cannot eliminate such exposure and, therefore, currency exchange rate movements and volatility can have a material adverse impact on our financial position. Our reputation and our ability to do business may be impaired by corrupt behavior by any of our employees or agents or those of our affiliates. We and our affiliates, including our subsidiaries and joint ventures, operate in countries known to experience governmental corruption. While we and our affiliates are committed to conducting business in a legal and ethical manner, there is a risk that our employees or agents or those of our affiliates may take actions that violate either the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or legislation promulgated pursuant to the 1997 OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions or other applicable anti-corruption regulations. These actions could result in monetary penalties against us or our affiliates and could damage our reputation and, therefore, our ability to do business. In addition to the risks that arise in countries that have experienced governmental corruption, there is also a risk that we will not be able to ensure that our internal control policies and procedures will protect us from fraud or other criminal acts committed by our employees or agents or those of our affiliates. Financial Risks We could be adversely affected if one or more of our major depositing counterparties becomes insolvent and does not return amounts deposited. At November 30, 2008 we held $573.0 million (2007:$582.7 million) of cash and cash equivalents, the significant majority of which was deposited with credit institutions for periods of less than three months, generating interest income. At November 30, 2008 amounts deposited with our top five major counterparties, all of which were rated by Standard and Poor’s credit ratings as having a minimum A- rating, amounted to $330.4 million (2007: $300.0 million). If any of our depositing counterparties becomes insolvent, we may lose amounts deposited which would have a negative impact on our liquidity and our ability to finance our operations, as well as on our net assets and profits because the amounts not recoverable would be impaired. 12 Table of Contents We could be adversely affected if the consortium of companies which provides guarantee facilities becomes insolvent or face other financial difficulties and is unable to continue to provide the current level of guarantee facilities. At November 30, 2008 the Group had total guarantee facilities available of $600.0 million (2007: $400.0 million) of which $295.9 million (2007: $315.6 million) remained unutilized. The facilities are primarily used for the issuance of performance guarantees in the ordinary course of the Group’s business. If the consortium of banks, which provides the guarantee facilities is unable to continue to provide the guarantee facilities, this would negatively impact our ability to bid for new contracts and could undermine our ability to fulfill existing contracts. Our use of the “percentage-of-completion” method for accounting for projects could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profits. Substantially all of our projects are accounted for using the percentage-of-completion method, which is standard for our industry and in compliance with the relevant accounting standards. Under the percentage-of-completion method, estimated contract revenues are accrued based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs, taking into account of the level of physical completion. Estimated contract losses are recognized in full when determined. Contract revenue and total cost estimates are reviewed and revised periodically as work progresses and as variation orders are approved and adjustments based on the percentage-of-completion are reflected in contract revenues in the reporting period when these estimates are revised. To the extent that these adjustments result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported contract revenues, we would recognize a charge against current earnings that may be significant depending on the size of the project or the adjustment. For more information regarding the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, please see Item 5. “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Critical Accounting Policies” and Note 3 “Significant Accounting Policies” to the Consolidated Financial Statements. If we are not able to make reliable estimates, we would not be able to use the “percentage-of-completion” method for accounting for long-term contracts. Revisions to estimates on major projects from continuing operations had a positive impact in fiscal year 2008 of $281.2 million (2007: $127.9 million). Under the relevant accounting standards the percentage-of-completion method of accounting for long-term contracts can be used as long as we can make reliable estimates of progress toward completion of such contracts, of contract revenues and contract costs. If we were not able to make reliable estimates, we would be obliged to use the “zero-estimate-of-profit” method or the “completed contract” method. Under the zero-estimate-of-profit method, we would not recognize any profit before a contract is completed. Under the completed contract method, all costs, revenues and profits are accumulated in balance sheet accounts until project completion. In order to centralize our expertise on making estimates of contract revenues and contract costs, we have established a separate estimating department in Acergy Africa and Mediterranean, as this is our segment with the most significant long-term contracts. If, despite these measures, we experience adverse developments in our long-term contracts, we may not be able to establish that we can develop reliable estimates of our progress toward completion of such contracts, contract revenues and contract costs. If we are unable to continue to use the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, our earnings may be materially adversely impacted, resulting in, among other things, a potential default under our credit facilities. Our ability to service indebtedness and fund our operations depends on cash flows from our subsidiaries. As a holding company, our principal assets consist of our direct or indirect shareholdings in our subsidiaries. Accordingly, our ability to make required payments of interest and principal on our indebtedness and funding of our operations is affected by the ability of our operating subsidiaries, our principal source of cash flow, to transfer available cash to us. The inter-company transfer of funds and repatriation of profit or capital (by way of dividends, inter-company loans or otherwise) may be restricted or prohibited by legal requirements applicable to 13 Table of Contents the respective subsidiaries and their directors, especially in the event that our liquidity or financial position is uncertain. In addition, such repatriation of profits, capital or funds could be subject to tax at various levels within our corporate structure and, depending on where tax is payable, our effective rate may be adversely affected. Our operations are subject to a significant number of tax regimes, and changes in the legislation governing the rules implementing them or the regulator enforcing them in any one of these countries could negatively and adversely affect our results of operations. Our operations are carried out in several countries across the world, through branches and subsidiaries and our tax filings are therefore subject to the jurisdiction of a significant number of tax authorities and tax regimes, as well as cross-border tax treaties between governments. Furthermore, the offshore mobile nature of our operations means that we routinely have to deal with complex domestic and international tax issues (such as transfer pricing, permanent establishment or similar issues) as well as competing and developing tax systems where tax treaties may not exist or where the legislative framework is unclear. In addition, our international operations are taxed on different bases that vary from country to country, including net profit, deemed net profit (generally based on turnover) and revenue-based withholding taxes based on turnover. We determine our tax provision based on our interpretation of enacted local tax laws and existing practices and use assumptions regarding the tax deductibility of items and recognition of revenue. Changes in these assumptions and practices could impact the amount of income taxes that we provide for in any given year and could negatively and adversely affect the result of our operations. Our tax liabilities could increase as a result of changes in the Luxembourg tax regime. The Luxembourg Holding Company Law of 1929 defines holding companies as companies established in Luxembourg that solely exercise certain activities, such as investment in equity and debt securities and grant of financial assistance under certain conditions, with respect to companies in which they hold investments. These holding companies, of which we are one, are exempt from Luxembourg’s corporate taxes on earnings, including dividends, interest and royalties as well as on payments, including dividends and royalties. As a result of the European Commission’s conclusion that the special tax status described above constitutes a disguised subsidy, this special tax status will terminate on January 1, 2011 and we will become subject to Luxembourg’s ordinary tax regime, if we were to maintain our status and present structure as a Luxembourg holding company. This would increase our tax liabilities compared to our current exempt status. In light of the changes to the Luxembourg tax regime, we are evaluating corporate structuring alternatives to maximize the efficiency of our corporate structure and holdings. However, there can be no guarantee that such alternatives will be as beneficial, or more beneficial from a tax perspective than our current corporate structure. We may also not pursue any such alternatives. Our tax liabilities could increase as a result of changes in the UK Tonnage Tax regime. Our UK ship owning subsidiaries are currently taxed within the UK tonnage tax regime. A key feature of this regime is that the commercial profits from the ship operations qualifying as tonnage tax activities are adjusted by reference to a formula linked to the tonnage of the vessels before being taxed at the UK statutory tax rate. This has resulted in a lower tax charge than would have been accrued had we not elected to join the UK tonnage tax regime. On January 23, 2008, the UK government announced its intention to change the UK tonnage tax legislation with effect from April 1, 2008 following discussions with the European Commission regarding the interpretation of the guidelines on state aid. These proposals were subsequently withdrawn in March 2008. We are not currently aware of any intention to do so but if the UK Government decides to propose revised legislative changes in 14 Table of Contents respect of the UK tonnage tax regime then we may be forced to explore alternative ship owning structures, although there can be no assurance that such alternatives will be as beneficial from a tax perspective as under the current UK tonnage tax regime. We may also not pursue any such alternatives. Our tax liabilities could increase as a result of adverse tax audits, enquiries or settlements. Our operations are, and may in the future become, subject to audit, enquiry and possible re-assessment by different tax authorities. In accordance with applicable accounting rules relating to contingencies we provide taxes for the amounts that we consider probable of being payable as a result of these audits and for which a reasonable estimate may be made. We also separately consider if taxes payable in relation to filings not yet subject to audit may be higher than the amounts stated in our filed tax return, and make additional provisions for probable risks if appropriate. As forecasting the ultimate outcome includes some uncertainty, the risk exists that adjustments will be recognized to our tax provisions in later years as and when these and other matters are finalized with the appropriate tax authorities. Our operations in various countries are currently subject to enquiries, audits and disputes, including but not limited to those in France, UK, Nigeria and Congo. These audits are all at various stages of completion. Our operating entities in these countries are co-operating fully with the relevant tax authorities while seeking to defend their tax positions. These ongoing tax investigations are summarized below and necessitated provisions of $4.1 million (2007: $36.8 million) excluding interest in fiscal year 2008. • The tax audit in France, which commenced in February 2007, has continued into fiscal years 2008 and 2009. The audit involves several legal entities and initially covered the fiscal years from 2004 to 2006. However, the audit scope has effectively been extended back to fiscal year 2000 by way of a challenge to the utilization of losses brought forward, and forward through an extension to 2007 for certain French companies. In addition, the French tax authorities have adopted a very wide ranging approach and have raised a number of challenges including both international tax issues such as transfer pricing and territoriality as well as domestic French matters. It may be necessary to defend our tax filings in court if a reasonable settlement cannot be reached with the French tax authorities. In October 2007 the French tax authorities also conducted a formal search of our French subsidiary’s offices in Suresnes, France. The documents authorizing the search claim that we had inaccurately reported to the French tax authorities the extent of our activities and revenue in France in an effort to minimize French taxes. During 2008, the French tax audit was extended to various subsidiaries incorporated outside France. This audit has continued into 2009 and includes us defending our tax positions and appealing the authorization to search to the French Supreme Court. • In the UK, we are subject to an ongoing enquiry in respect of our UK ship owning companies and the amount of profits allocated to transport activities and therefore eligible for tonnage tax treatment. Under the UK tonnage tax regime the commercial profits of our UK ship owning companies arising from transport operations (allocated on a just and reasonable basis) are subject to tax calculated by reference to a formula linked to the tonnage of the vessels concerned. The enquiry covers fiscal years 2003 to 2006. As noted above, a tax provision of $4.1 million is held against this risk. The cumulative benefit for all fiscal years to November 30, 2008 arising from taking advantage of the UK tonnage tax regime since fiscal year 2002 is $15.0 million, excluding the total release of the deferred tax liability on ships of $36.0 million in the fiscal years ended November 30, 2001 and 2002. Had we not been (wholly or partially) within the UK tonnage tax regime, it is likely that additional accelerated capital allowances would have been available on fixed asset additions to reduce the immediate cash tax cost of any successful challenge by the UK tax authorities. However this would have increased our total deferred tax liability. For more information about these proceedings, please refer to Note 11 “Taxation” to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 15 Table of Contents During fiscal 2007, management completed a detailed review of uncertain tax positions across the Group. This review was updated in fiscal 2008. The outstanding issues identified in the review process are the principal risks which arise in respect of permanent establishment, transfer pricing and other similar international tax issues. In common with other international groups, the conflict between the Group’s global operating model and the jurisdictional approach of taxing authorities often leads to uncertainty on tax positions. Based on the review, management concluded that no adjustment was required to the provision of $23.0 million that was recognized in fiscal 2007. While we found that for fiscal 2008 no adjustment was necessary to the tax provision made in fiscal 2007 to cover any associated risk or further liability, reflecting our view of the most likely outcomes, it is possible that the ultimate resolution of these matters could result in tax charges that are materially higher than the amount we have provided. Risks Relating to Our Shares Our Articles of Incorporation impose restrictions on the ownership of our shares. Our Articles of Incorporation provide that in recognition of the fact that certain shareholdings may threaten us with “imminent and grave damage” (as defined in our Articles of Incorporation), which term we understand is likely to include adverse tax consequences, a hostile takeover attempt or adverse governmental sanctions, (i) no US Person (as defined in our Articles of Incorporation) shall own, directly or indirectly, more than 9.9% of our outstanding shares, (ii) all shareholders of any single country may not own, directly or indirectly, more than 49.9% of our outstanding shares, and (iii) no person may own, directly or indirectly, more than 20.0% of our outstanding shares unless a majority of the Board of Directors shall have authorized such shareholding in advance. In addition, our Board of Directors may restrict, reduce or prevent the ownership of common shares by any person of a particular domicile or nationality if it appears to the Board that such ownership may threaten us with “imminent and grave damage.” The Group has been advised by our Luxembourg counsel, Elvinger, Hoss & Prussen, that there are no Luxembourg judicial interpretations of such phrase. These defensive measures may have the effect of making a merger involving us, or a tender offer, or an open-market purchase program or other purchase of our shares more difficult, in circumstances that otherwise could give shareholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price for their shares. 