Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following factors and the other information contained in this Report, including the information incorporated by reference into this Report. The following is a summary of the risks that may affect some or all of our activities and which may make an investment in our securities one of high risk. This list is not exhaustive. If any of the events described below occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Operational Risks Unexpected costs may adversely affect the amount we realize from fixed-price contracts. A significant proportion of our business is performed on a fixed-price or turnkey basis. In fiscal years 2005, 2004 and 2003, approximately 75%, 78%, and 89%, respectively, of our revenue from continuing operations was derived from fixed-price contracts. Long-term fixed-priced contracts, most of which are awarded on a competitive bidding basis, are inherently risky because of the possibility that we might incur costs that we did not expect at the time of bidding, including the cost of satisfying post-completion warranty obligations. Such unexpected costs can result in losses on fixed price contracts. Additionally, because we employ percentage-of-completion accounting, such unexpected costs could require us to take charges against earnings to reflect properly the level of completion of a project and to recognize loss-making projects currently. The net effect of significant revisions on major contracts was a net gain of $60.3 million from continuing operations and a loss of $15.4 million from discontinued operations in fiscal year 2005, a net gain of $43.8 million from continuing 5 Table of Contents operations and a loss of $27.7 million from discontinued operations in fiscal year 2004, and a net loss of $184.5 million from continuing operations and a loss of $2.5 million from discontinued operations in fiscal year 2003. The cost and gross profit realized on such contracts can vary from those expected because of changes beyond our control, including but not limited to: • unanticipated technical problems with the equipment we are supplying or developing which may require that we spend our own money to remedy the problem; • unanticipated changes in the costs of components, materials or labor; • unanticipated difficulties in obtaining required governmental permits or approvals; • project modifications and variation orders creating unanticipated costs; • delays caused by local weather and soil conditions; • suppliers’ or subcontractors’ failure to perform; and • logistics costs. These risks are exacerbated if the duration of the project is long-term, where it may be more likely that the circumstances upon which we originally bid and developed a price will change in a manner that increases our costs. Our long-term projects often subject us to penalties if we cannot complete portions of the projects in accordance with agreed-upon time limits. We may continue to experience equipment or mechanical failures, which could increase costs, impair revenues and result in penalties for failure to meet project completion requirements. The successful execution of contracts requires a high degree of reliability of our ships, barges and equipment. Breakdowns not only add to the costs of executing a project, but they can also delay the completion of subsequent contracts, which are scheduled to utilize the same assets. We operate a scheduled maintenance program in order to keep all assets in good working order, but despite this breakdowns can occur. For example, in August 2004, an equipment failure involving the stinger of the DLB801 resulted in significant increased costs and exposure to liquidated damages, which lead to delays on the barge’s 18-month work program on Conventional projects offshore Trinidad and Tobago and adversely affected our operating results from discontinued operations for fiscal years 2004 and 2005. Therefore, if we experience any other equipment or mechanical failures with our major assets, such problems could increase costs, impair revenues and result in penalties for failure to meet project completion requirements, which may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We have experienced difficulties resolving claims and variation orders, which have adversely impacted our cash flows and liquidity. In the ordinary course of our business, we must negotiate with our clients to resolve claims and variation orders. A “claim” is an amount in excess of the agreed contract price (or amount not included in the original contract price) that a contractor seeks to collect from clients or others for client-caused delays, errors in specifications and designs, contract terminations, variation orders in dispute or unapproved as to both scope and price or other causes of unanticipated additional costs. A “variation order” is a written change to the provisions of a project contract, which may be initiated by either us or our client. It is customary that, where a variation to the project scope or specifications is required, we continue to execute the project to completion, although we may not have precise agreement with our client on the financial responsibilities of all parties. We often try to resolve these later by negotiating claims and variation orders. In fiscal year 2004, we had significant difficulty resolving certain claims and variation orders and collecting amounts that we believed were owed to us. By the end of fiscal year 2004, we were able to achieve agreement with clients on most of the disputed items and further progress was made in fiscal year 2005, but if we have difficulty resolving claims and variation orders for future projects, there may be an ongoing material adverse impact on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. 6 Table of Contents Our business is affected by expenditures by participants in the oil and gas industry. Demand for our services depends on expenditures by participants in the oil and gas industry and particularly on capital expenditure budgets of the companies engaged in the exploration, development and production of offshore oil and gas. In particular, the oil and gas industry has been consolidating. There are fewer and larger oil and gas companies that control expenditures for the types of services and products that we and our competitors provide. Consequently, these companies have significant market power to dictate the terms of commercial relationships with offshore service providers such as us. Offshore oil and gas field capital expenditures are also influenced by many other factors beyond our control, including: • prices of oil and gas and anticipated growth in world oil and gas demand; • the discovery rate of new offshore oil and gas reserves; • the economic feasibility of developing particular offshore oil and gas fields; • the production from existing producing oil and gas fields; • political and economic conditions in areas where offshore oil and gas exploration and development may occur; • policies of governments regarding the exploration for, pricing and production and development of their oil and gas reserves; and • the ability of oil and gas companies to access or generate capital and the cost of such capital. There might be delays or cancellation of projects included in our backlog. The dollar amount of our backlog does not necessarily indicate future revenues or earnings related to the performance of that work. Backlog refers to expected future revenues under signed contracts, which we have determined are likely to be performed. During the course of a project, the backlog is adjusted to take account of alterations to the scope of work under approved variation orders and contract extensions. Although the backlog represents only business that we consider to be firm, cancellations, delays or scope adjustments have occurred in the past and are likely to occur in the future. Due to factors outside our control, such as changes in project scope and schedule, we cannot predict with certainty when or if projects included in our backlog will be performed. We may be liable to third parties for the failure of our joint venture partners to fulfill their obligations. Under some of our project agreements, we may be liable on a joint and several basis to the client for the performance of the entire contract and any non-performance by our subcontractors or partners in the project is our responsibility. If our project partner or subcontractor in such arrangement fails to fulfill its obligations, we could have to carry the resultant liability toward the client and would have to rely on our ability to obtain reimbursement from our project partner or subcontractor, for our costs, over and above the reimbursement from the client, in carrying out such liability. If our partner or subcontractor became insolvent or ceased operations, this might not be possible. Our international operations expose us to political, social and economic instability in the developing countries in which we operate and other risks inherent in international business, any of which could increase our costs, reduce our future growth opportunities and thereby affect our operating results. Our operations in Acergy Africa and Mediterranean, Acergy South America and Acergy Asia and Middle East are mainly performed in emerging markets such as Angola, Nigeria, Brazil and Indonesia. In total, these segments accounted for 57%, 57% and 58% of our net operating revenue from continuing operations in fiscal years 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Operations in these emerging markets present risks including: • economic instability, which could make it difficult for us to anticipate future business conditions in these markets; 7 Table of Contents • political instability, which could discourage investment and complicate our dealings with governments; • increased risk of fraud and political corruption if financial controls and anti-fraud are not well-established and enforced; • boycotts and embargoes that may be imposed by the international community on countries in which we operate; • requirements imposed by local governments that we use local suppliers or subcontractors, which may not be able to perform as required; • labor unrest, particularly in Nigeria and Angola where our large workforces are prone to strike action; • disruptions due to civil war, terrorist activities, election outcomes, shortage of commodities, power interruptions or inflation; • the imposition of unexpected taxes or other payments on our revenues in these markets; and • the introduction of exchange controls and other restrictions by foreign governments. Unanticipated political events or social disturbances in developing or less developed countries, including labor unrest or terrorist activities, could cause cost overruns on projects for which we are not reimbursed or delays in execution of projects which lead to delayed revenues or potential contractual penalties. For example, even though it is one of the world’s largest oil exporters, Nigeria has had a history of political instability and disorganized society with an internal infrastructure that is neither fully functional nor well maintained and parts of Nigeria regularly experience localized civil unrest and violence. In fiscal year 2003, our OGGS project in Nigeria suffered disruption due to a labor strike at a subcontractor’s yard and the hijacking of a chartered survey ship. Additionally, to the extent a project is delayed or becomes more costly in a manner that we cannot recover, there would be an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Political or social instability could also inhibit offshore exploration or capital expenditures by our clients. Such instability could also result in fewer new project tenders meeting our criteria thereby reducing growth opportunities for our business. Our results may fluctuate due to adverse weather conditions. Over the past three years, a substantial portion of our revenue has been generated from work performed in the North Sea and North America, accounting for approximately 41%, 41% and 39% of our revenues in fiscal years 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Adverse weather conditions during the winter months in these segments usually result in low levels of offshore activity. Additionally, during certain periods of the year, we may encounter adverse weather conditions such as hurricanes or tropical storms in the Gulf of Mexico. During periods of curtailed activity due to adverse weather conditions, we continue to incur operating expenses, but our revenues from operations are delayed or reduced. As a result, full-year results are not likely to be a direct multiple of any particular quarter or combination of quarters. We face competition that could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. The offshore oil and gas services business is highly competitive, and offshore contractors compete intensely for available projects. Contracts for our services are generally awarded on a competitive bid basis, and although clients may consider, among other things, the availability and capability of equipment and the reputation and experience of the contractor, price is a primary factor in determining which contractor is awarded a contract. Several of our competitors and potential competitors are larger than we are and have greater financial and other resources than we have, which may make them better able to provide necessary financial support to secure new contracts (including through performance bonds or acceptance of deferred payments), or to withstand fluctuations in asset utilization. This becomes more apparent in times of financial difficulty such as those that we 8 Table of Contents experienced in recent periods. This intense competition could result in pricing pressures, lower sales and reduced margins that would have an adverse effect on our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. We depend on certain significant clients and long-term contracts and the loss of one or more significant clients or the failure to replace or enter into new long-term contracts could adversely affect our operating results. In fiscal year 2005, Statoil ASA (“Statoil”) accounted for approximately 20% of our net operating revenue from continuing operations, with BP Plc. (“BP”) and Total Fina Elf (“TotalFinaElf”) accounting for a further 15% and 14%, respectively, of our net operating revenue from continuing operations. In fiscal year 2004, Shell Exploration and Production, through various subsidiaries (“Shell”), accounted for approximately 19% of our net operating revenue from continuing operations, with ExxonMobil Corporation (“ExxonMobil”) and Chevron Texaco Corporation (“ChevronTexaco”) accounting for approximately a further 10% and 8%, respectively, of our net operating revenue from continuing operations. In fiscal year 2003, Shell accounted for 26% of our net operating revenue, with Total S.A. (“Total”) and ChevronTexaco accounting for a further 13% and 11%, respectively, of our net operating revenue from continuing operations. During fiscal years 2005 and 2004, our ten largest clients accounted for 81% and 70%, respectively, of our net operating revenue from continuing operations, and over that period six clients, ChevronTexaco, Total, Statoil, Petróleo Brasileiro SA (“Petrobras”), ExxonMobil and BP consistently numbered among our ten largest clients. Revenues from our largest clients are often related to specific long-term contracts that, upon completion, may not be replaced by contracts of equivalent size. In fiscal years 2005 and 2004, approximately 90% and 77%, respectively, of our revenue from continuing operations was derived from long-term contracts. Our inability to replace significant long-term projects on similar terms or the loss of any one or more of our significant clients or a substantial decrease in demand by our significant clients could result in a substantial loss of revenues which could have a material adverse effect on us. We could be adversely affected if we fail to keep pace with the technological changes, and changes in technology could result in write-downs of assets. Our clients are seeking to develop oil and gas fields in increasingly deeper waters. To meet our clients’ needs, we must continuously develop new, and update existing technology for the installation, repair and maintenance of offshore structures. In addition, rapid and frequent technology and market demand changes can often render existing technologies obsolete, requiring substantial new capital expenditures and/or write-downs of assets. Our failure to anticipate or to respond adequately and timely to changing technology, market demands and/or client requirements could adversely affect our business and financial results. If we are unable to attract and retain skilled workers in a competitive environment, our business will be adversely affected. We require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. Competition for skilled personnel and other labor required to support tender activities and project execution has intensified due to increased demand for these services during fiscal 2005. Failure to retain or attract such qualified personnel could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our international operations expose us to the risk of fluctuations in currency exchange rates. The revenue and costs of operations and financial position of many of our non-U.S. subsidiaries are initially reported in the local currencies of countries in which those subsidiaries reside. That financial information is then translated into U.S. dollars (our reporting currency) at the applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. For fiscal years 2005 and 2004, approximately 50% and 28%, respectively, of our consolidated net operating revenue was generated in local currencies and translated into U.S. dollars. In fiscal year 2005, approximately 23%, 12% and 11% of our net operating revenue was generated in Euro, British pound sterling and Norwegian kroner, respectively. In fiscal year 2004, approximately 14% and 12% of our net operating revenue was generated in British pound sterling and Norwegian kroner, respectively. The exchange 9 Table of Contents rate between these currencies and the U.S. dollar can fluctuate substantially, which could have a significant translation effect on our reported consolidated results of operations and financial position. In addition, we are subject to currency risk exposure when our sales are denominated in currencies that are different from those in which our expenses are incurred. In this case, if the value of the currency in which sales are recorded weakens relative to the currency in which we incur expenses, then there is an adverse impact on our profit margin. We are exposed to substantial hazards, risks and delays that are inherent in the offshore services business for which liabilities may potentially exceed our insurance coverage and contractual indemnity provisions. Our operations are subject to all the risks normally associated with offshore development and production and could result in damage to or loss of property, suspension of operations or injury or death to personnel or third parties. Our operations are conducted in hazardous environments where accidents involving catastrophic damage or loss of life could result, and such an event may result in our being named a defendant in lawsuits asserting large claims. We insure for liability arising from our operations, both onshore and offshore, including loss of or damage to third-party property, death or injury to employees or third parties, statutory workers compensation protection and pollution. All such insurance is carried at levels of coverage and deductibles that we consider financially prudent, although there can be no assurance that the amount of insurance we carry is sufficient to protect us fully in all events. A successful liability claim for which we are underinsured or uninsured could have a material adverse effect on us. We generally seek to obtain indemnity agreements whenever possible from our clients requiring those clients to hold us harmless in the event of structural damage, loss of production or liability for pollution that originates below the water surface. Such contractual indemnification, however, does not generally cover liability resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of, or violation of law by, our employees or subcontractors. Additionally, if we suffer a loss for which we are entitled to indemnity, we are dependent on our client’s ability to satisfy its indemnity obligation. If the client cannot satisfy its obligation, we could suffer losses. Our reputation and our ability to do business may be impaired by corrupt behavior by any of our employees or agents or those of our subsidiaries. We and our affiliates operate in countries known to experience governmental corruption. While we and our subsidiaries are committed to conducting business in a legal and ethical manner, there is a risk that our employees or agents may take actions that violate either the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or legislation promulgated pursuant to the 1997 OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions or other applicable anti-corruption regulations. These actions could result in monetary penalties against us or our subsidiaries and could damage our reputation and, therefore, our ability to do business. In addition to the risks that arise in countries that have experienced governmental corruption, there is also a risk that we will not be able to ensure that our internal control policies and procedures will protect us from fraud or other criminal acts committed by our employees. In fiscal year 2004 our audit committee noted a lack of formality in our anti-fraud program, which we have addressed, among other things, by appointing a Head of Compliance and introducing programs designed to enhance awareness of whistleblowing procedures. Although we have taken remedial steps in fiscal year 2005, we have reclassified the lack of formality in our antifraud program as a “material weakness” in our internal control over financial reporting as at November 30, 2005, due to our belief that our commitment to ethical and legal conduct may not yet be fully understood and embedded throughout the Group. In March 2006 we updated our Code of Business Conduct to reflect the increased focus by many regulators on anti-fraud controls, specifically incorporating the requirements under the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. This is discussed in further detail in Item 15. “Controls and Procedures.” Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, there can be no assurance that all instances of fraud will be or have been detected. 10 Table of Contents We determined that we did not have effective disclosure controls and procedures, due to certain “material weaknesses” with respect to our internal control over financial reporting. We previously reported in our annual report on Form 20-F for fiscal year 2004 that we did not maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures as of November 30, 2004, due to certain “material weaknesses” and other deficiencies with respect to our internal control over financial reporting. During fiscal year 2005, we undertook certain actions to remediate the “material weaknesses” and other deficiencies identified in our annual report on Form 20-F for fiscal year 2004. Although we made progress in executing some remedial measures during fiscal year 2005, we determined that there are four “material weaknesses” and other deficiencies with respect to our internal control over financial reporting. These are discussed in more detail in Item 15. “Controls and Procedures.” As a result, our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of November 30, 2005 to achieve their intended objectives. Although we are continuing to remediate the deficiencies we have identified, if we do not effectively address these deficiences and otherwise continue to improve our internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to provide timely and accurate financial information, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and the trading price of our securities could be adversely affected. Financial Risks Net losses and liquidity problems had in the past and may in the future have an adverse effect on our business. We experienced significant net losses in recent years including $418.1 million in fiscal year 2003, $151.9 million in fiscal year 2002 and $14.2 million in fiscal year 2001. During fiscal years 2003 and 2002, we experienced unanticipated operational difficulties and cost overruns related to a number of major projects. These cost overruns, together with delays in our recovery of amounts owed to us and in the settlement of claims and variation orders, contributed significantly to those losses. As a consequence, in fiscal years 2003 and 2002, we were required to seek a number of amendments and waivers to our credit facilities to avoid financial covenant defaults. We also were required to take measures to ensure that we had sufficient liquidity to fund our operations, which included closing our positions under foreign exchange contracts. We achieved net income of $139.5 million and $5.1 million for fiscal years 2005 and 2004, respectively. However, we cannot assure you that we will maintain profitability in the future. There can be no assurance that our new tender procedures and other operational changes will eliminate the risk of us entering into loss-making contracts in the future. If we encounter similar losses and liquidity problems in the future, they may have an adverse effect on our business. These adverse effects may include: • the loss of new projects because our clients lack confidence in our financial strength; • clients’ requirements for more onerous terms for project contracts, including the need to post performance and other bonds to secure obligations in amounts exceeding historic requirements, and the withholding of payments due to us as a means of securing our project performance obligations; • the inability to source materials, goods and services from suppliers on satisfactory terms; • difficulties in retaining and attracting a skilled workforce; • significant distraction of senior management time and attention to resolving financial issues instead of managing ongoing operations; and • difficulties in arranging new and increased bonding facilities that are essential for the growth of our business due to the lack of confidence in our financial strength by the financial institutions that provide us with these bonding facilities. Our use of the “percentage-of-completion” method for accounting for projects could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profits. Substantially all of our projects are accounted for on the “percentage-of-completion” method, which is standard for our industry and in compliance with U.S. GAAP. Under the percentage-of-completion method, estimated contract revenues are accrued based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs, 11 Table of Contents taking into account the level of physical completion. Estimated contract losses are recognized in full when determined. Contract revenues and total cost estimates are reviewed and revised periodically as work progresses and as variation orders are approved, and adjustments based on the percentage of completion are reflected in contract revenues in the reporting period when these estimates are revised. To the extent that these adjustments result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported contract revenues, we would recognize a charge against current earnings that may be significant depending on the size of the project or the adjustment. If we are not able to make reasonably dependable estimates, we would not be able to use the “percentage-of-completion” method for accounting for long-term contracts. In fiscal year 2005, there was a positive impact of $60.3 million attributable to revisions of estimates on major projects from continuing operations and an adverse impact of $15.4 million attributable to revisions of estimates on major projects from discontinued operations, as compared to a positive impact of $43.8 million and an adverse impact of $27.7 million in fiscal year 2004 and an adverse impact of $184.5 million and an adverse impact of $2.5 million in fiscal year 2003 for revisions of estimates to major projects from continuing operations and discontinued operations, respectively. Under U.S. GAAP, the “percentage-of-completion” method of accounting for long-term contracts can be used as long as we can make reasonably dependable estimates of progress toward completion of such contracts, of contract revenues and contract costs. If we were not able to make reasonably dependable estimates, we would be obliged to use the “zero-estimate-of-profit” method or the “completed contract” method. Under the “zero-estimate-of-profit” method, we would not recognize any profit before a contract is completed. Under the “completed contract” method, all costs, revenues and profits are accumulated in balance sheet accounts until project completion. In order to centralize our expertise on making estimates of contract revenues and contract costs, we have established a separate estimating department in Acergy Africa and Mediterranean, as this is the segment with the most significant long-term contracts. If, despite these measures, we experience adverse developments in our long-term contracts, we may not be able to establish that we can develop reasonably dependable estimates of our progress toward completion of such contracts, contract revenues and contract costs. If we are unable to continue to use the “percentage-of-completion” method of accounting, our earnings may be materially adversely impacted, resulting in, among other things, a potential default under our $350 million revolving credit facility. Our ability to service indebtedness and fund our operations depends on cash flows from our subsidiaries. As a holding company, our principal assets consist of our direct or indirect shareholdings in our subsidiaries. Accordingly, our ability to make required payments of interest and principal on our indebtedness and funding of our operations are affected by the ability of our operating subsidiaries, the principal source of cash flow, to transfer available cash to us. The inter-company transfer of funds (by way of dividends, inter-company loans or otherwise) may be restricted or prohibited by legal requirements applicable to the respective subsidiaries and their directors, especially in the event that our liquidity or financial position is uncertain. Our revenues are subject to a significant number of tax regimes, and changes in the legislation governing the rules implementing them or the regulator enforcing them in any one of these countries could negatively and adversely affect our results of operations. We operate in many countries and are therefore subject to the jurisdiction of numerous tax authorities, as well as cross-border treaties concluded between governments. Our operations in these countries are taxed on different bases, including net income, net income deemed earned and revenue based withholding. We determine our tax provision based on our interpretation of enacted local tax laws and existing practices, and use assumptions regarding the tax deductibility of items and recognition of revenue. Changes in these assumptions could impact the amount of income taxes that we provide for any given year and could negatively and adversely affect our result of operations. Our tax liabilities could increase as a result of changes in the Luxembourg tax regime. There may be a risk that our tax liabilities could increase as a result of changes in the Luxembourg tax regime. On February 8, 2006, the European Commission decided to investigate Luxembourg’s 1929 tax-exempt 12 Table of Contents holding company regime under the Luxembourg Holding Company Law of 1929, on the grounds that the tax exemption may constitute a disguised subsidy in favor of multinational companies based in Luxembourg and may distort the European financial market. Under the Luxembourg regime, 1929 exempt holding companies are companies established in Luxembourg, which solely exercise certain activities such as investment in equity and debt securities and grant of financial assistance under certain conditions to companies in which they hold investments. The 1929 exempt holding companies are exempt from Luxembourg’s business taxes on earnings, including dividends, interest and royalties as well as on payments, including dividends and royalties. Luxembourg’s 1929 tax exempt holding tax regime was amended on June 21, 2005. Pre-existing companies such as us will continue to benefit from the tax exempt regime until December 31, 2010, but thereafter we may not receive more than 5% of our dividends from companies which are not subject in their respective countries to taxation which is comparable in principles and tax rates to the taxes applicable ordinarily in Luxembourg. If the European Commission’s investigation were to conclude that the continuing tax exemption through 2010 constitutes a disguised subsidy, the tax laws would have to be repealed and we would be subject to the ordinary tax regime if we were to maintain our status as a Luxembourg company. Our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting may identify “material weaknesses” in the future and may result in an attestation with an adverse opinion from our independent auditors, which could reduce confidence in our financial statements and negatively affect the price of our securities. We will be required by the SEC, as directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to include a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting in our future annual reports on Form 20-F that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our independent auditors must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. These requirements will first apply to our annual report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2006. We have been and are continuing to evaluate our internal control systems to allow our management to report on, and our auditors to attest to, our internal control over financial reporting. As of November 30, 2005, we had identified four “material weaknesses” in our internal control over financial reporting. If we cannot remedy these weaknesses or if the assessment of our internal control over financial reporting otherwise identifies “material weaknesses” that must be disclosed in future annual reports on Form 20-F, we may receive an attestation with an adverse opinion from our independent auditors as to the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting. Such an opinion could reduce confidence in our financial statements and negatively affect the price of our securities. Risks Relating to our Shares Our Articles of Incorporation impose restrictions on the ownership of our shares. Our Articles of Incorporation provide that in recognition of the fact that certain shareholdings may threaten us with “imminent and grave damage” (as defined in our Articles of Incorporation), which term includes adverse tax consequences, a hostile takeover attempt or adverse governmental sanctions, (i) no U.S. Person (as defined in our Articles of Incorporation) shall own, directly or indirectly, more than 9.9% of our outstanding shares, (ii) all shareholders of any single country may not own, directly or indirectly, more than 49.9% of our outstanding shares, and (iii) no person may own, directly or indirectly, more than 20.0% of our outstanding shares unless a majority of the board shall have authorized such shareholding in advance. The board of directors may take remedial action if it determines that we are threatened with “imminent and grave damage.” We have been advised by our Luxembourg counsel, Elvinger, Hoss & Prussen, that there are no Luxembourg judicial interpretations of such phrase, but that situations involving hostile takeovers, adverse tax consequences to us or governmental sanctions are likely to be among the situations covered by that phrase. These defensive measures may have the effect of making more difficult a merger involving us, or a tender offer, open-market purchase program or other purchase of our shares, in circumstances that could give shareholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price for their shares. 13 Table of Contents 