Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following factors and the other information contained in this Report, including the information incorporated by reference into this Report. The following is a summary of the risks that may affect some or all of our activities and which may make an investment in our securities risky. This list is not exhaustive. If any of the events described below occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Operational Risks Unexpected costs may adversely affect the amount we realize from fixed-price contracts. A significant proportion of our business is performed on a fixed-price or turnkey basis. Approximately 78% of our revenue from continuing operations was derived from fixed-price contracts in fiscal year 2007 (2006: 75%, 2005: 75%). Long-term fixed-priced contracts, most of which are awarded on a competitive bidding basis, are inherently risky because of the possibility that we might incur costs that we did not expect at the time of bidding, including the cost of satisfying post-completion warranty obligations. Such unexpected costs can result in losses on fixed price contracts. Additionally, because we employ the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, such unexpected costs could require us to take charges against earnings to reflect properly the level of completion of a project and to recognize loss-making projects currently. For example, in fiscal year 2007 we experienced significant local contractor cost overruns in our Mexilhao Trunkline project relating to logistic, 6 Table of Contents transportation and works, which resulted in loss recognition on the project. The net effect of significant revisions on major contracts was a net gain from continuing operations in fiscal year 2007 of $127.9 million (2006: $74.2 million, 2005: $60.3 million), and a profit (loss) from discontinued operations in fiscal year 2007 of $10.1 million (2006: $(18.7) million, 2005: $(15.4) million). The cost and gross profit realized on such contracts can vary from those expected because of changes beyond our control, including but not limited to: • unanticipated technical problems with the equipment we are supplying or developing which may require that we spend our own money to remedy the problem; • unanticipated problems with trenching, ploughing, dredging, back-filling, rock dumping and other activities which depend upon seabed or subsoil conditions; • unanticipated changes in the costs of components, materials or labor; • changes in governmental regulations affecting our activities or unanticipated difficulties in obtaining required governmental permits or approvals; • project modifications and variation orders creating unanticipated costs; • delays caused by local weather; • suppliers’ or subcontractors’ failure to perform in a timely manner; and • logistics costs. These risks are exacerbated if the duration of the project is long-term, where it may be more likely that the circumstances upon which we originally bid and developed a price will change in a manner that increases our costs. Our long-term projects often subject us to penalties if we cannot complete portions of the projects in accordance with agreed-upon time limits. We may experience equipment or mechanical failures, which could increase costs, impair revenues and result in penalties for failure to meet project completion requirements. The successful execution of contracts requires a high degree of reliability of our ships, barges and equipment. Breakdowns not only add to the costs of executing a project, but they can also delay the completion of subsequent contracts, which are scheduled to utilize the same assets. Although the high utilization of our asset base in recent periods reflects our increased activity, it also puts a strain on our ability to avoid such mechanical failures. The Group operates a scheduled maintenance program in order to keep all assets in good working order, but despite this breakdowns can occur. For example, in November 2005, we experienced a problem involving a thruster of the Acergy Polaris, working offshore West Africa. This affected the operational capabilities of the ship during the first and second quarter of fiscal year 2006 and adversely impacted our operating results from continuing operations for fiscal years 2006 and 2005. During fiscal year 2006, the breakdown of a third party vessel similarly affected our results from discontinued operations. In 2007, thruster problems on the Acergy Harrier affected the operating capabilities of the ship and adversely impacted our operating results. If we experience any other equipment or mechanical failures with our major assets, such problems could increase costs, impair revenues and result in penalties for failure to meet project completion requirements, which may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. If we experience difficulties resolving claims and variation orders, this may adversely impact our cash flows and liquidity. In the ordinary course of our business, we must negotiate with our clients to resolve claims and variation orders. A “claim” is an amount in excess of the agreed contract price (or amount not included in the original contract price) that a contractor seeks to collect from clients or others for client-caused delays, errors in specifications and designs, contract terminations, variation orders in dispute or unapproved as to both scope and price or other causes of unanticipated additional costs. A “variation order” is a written change to the provisions of a project contract, which may be initiated by either us or our client. It is customary that, where a variation to 7 Table of Contents the project scope or specifications is required, we continue to execute the project to completion, although we may not have reached a precise agreement with our client on the financial responsibilities of all parties. We often try to resolve these later by negotiating claims and variation orders. In the past, we have had significant difficulties in resolving certain claims and variation orders and collecting amounts that we believed were owed to us. We believe we have been able to achieve agreement with clients on most of such disputed items. However, difficulties in resolving claims and variation orders for current or future projects may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Our business is affected by expenditures by participants in the oil and gas industry. Demand for our services depends on expenditures by participants in the oil and gas industry and particularly on capital expenditure budgets of the companies engaged in the exploration, development and production of offshore oil and gas. The oil and gas industry has been consolidating. There are fewer and larger oil and gas companies that control expenditures for the types of services and products that we and our competitors provide. Offshore oil and gas field capital expenditures are also influenced by many other factors beyond our control, including: • prices of oil and gas and anticipated growth in world oil and gas demand; • the discovery rate of new offshore oil and gas reserves; • the economic feasibility of developing particular offshore oil and gas fields; • the production from existing producing oil and gas fields; • political and economic conditions in areas where offshore oil and gas exploration and development may occur; • governmental regulations regarding environmental protection and the oil and gas industry generally, including policies regarding the exploration for, pricing and production and development of their oil and gas reserves; and • the ability of oil and gas companies to access or generate capital and the cost of such capital. There might be delays or cancellation of projects included in our backlog, which may adversely affect our future revenues. The dollar amount of our backlog does not necessarily indicate future revenues or earnings related to the performance of that work. Backlog refers to expected future revenues under signed contracts, which we have determined are likely to be performed. During the course of a project, the backlog is adjusted to take account of alterations to the scope of work under approved variation orders and contract extensions. Although the backlog represents only business that we consider to be firm, cancellations, delays or scope adjustments have occurred in the past and are likely to occur in the future. Due to factors outside our control, such as changes in project scope and schedule, we cannot predict with certainty when or if projects included in our backlog will be performed. Delays or cancellations of projects in our backlog may adversely affect our future revenues. We may be liable to third parties for the failure of our joint venture partners to fulfill their obligations. Under some of our project agreements, we may be liable on a joint and several basis to the client for the performance of the entire contract and any non-performance by our subcontractors or partners in the project is our responsibility. If our project partner or subcontractor in such arrangement fails to fulfill its obligations, we could have to carry the resultant liability toward the client and would have to rely on our ability to obtain reimbursement from our project partner or subcontractor for our costs, over and above the reimbursement from the client. Obtaining such reimbursement could require us to engage in litigation and could take a substantial amount of time. If our partner or subcontractor became insolvent or ceased operations, we might not be able to obtain reimbursement. 8 Table of Contents Our international operations expose us to political, social and economic instability in the developing countries in which we operate and other risks inherent in international business, any of which could increase our costs, reduce our future growth opportunities and thereby affect our operating results. Our operations in the Acergy Africa and Mediterranean, Acergy South America and Acergy Asia and Middle East segments are mainly performed in emerging markets such as Angola, Congo, Nigeria, Brazil and Vietnam. These segments accounted for approximately 66% of our total net operating revenue from continuing operations in fiscal year 2007 (2006: 56%, 2005: 57%). Operations in these emerging markets present risks including: • economic instability, which could make it difficult for us to anticipate future business conditions in these markets; • political instability, which could discourage investment and complicate our dealings with governments; • increased risk of fraud and political corruption if financial controls and anti-fraud are not well-established and enforced; • boycotts and embargoes that may be imposed by the international community on countries in which we operate; • requirements imposed by local governments that we use local suppliers or subcontractors, which may not be able to perform as required; • labor unrest, particularly in Nigeria and Angola where our large workforces are prone to strike action; • disruptions due to civil war, terrorist activities, piracy, election outcomes, shortage of commodities, power interruptions or inflation; • the imposition of unexpected taxes or other payments on our revenues in these markets; and • the introduction of exchange controls and other restrictions by foreign governments. Unanticipated political events or social disturbances in developing or less developed countries, including labor unrest or terrorist activities, could cause cost overruns on projects for which we are not reimbursed or delays in execution of projects which lead to delayed revenues or potential contractual penalties. Additionally, to the extent a project is delayed or becomes more costly in a manner that we cannot recover, there would be an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Political or social instability could also inhibit offshore exploration or capital expenditures by our clients. Such instability could result in fewer new project tenders meeting our criteria thereby reducing growth opportunities for our business. Our results may fluctuate due to adverse weather conditions. A substantial portion of our net operating revenues is generated from work performed in the North Sea. In fiscal year 2007, 34% of our revenues were generated from work performed in this region (2006: 39%, 2005: 38%). Adverse weather conditions during the winter months in this region usually result in low levels of offshore activity. Further, around offshore West Africa, where we also generate a significant portion of revenue, accounting for approximately 53% in fiscal year 2007 (2006: 48%, 2005: 48%) optimal weather conditions exist from October to April. Most offshore West Africa operations are scheduled for that period. Additionally, during certain periods of the year, we may encounter adverse weather conditions such as hurricanes or tropical storms. During periods of curtailed activity due to adverse weather conditions, we continue to incur operating expenses, but our revenues from operations are delayed or reduced. We face competition that could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. The offshore oil and gas services business is highly competitive, and offshore contractors compete intensely for available projects. Contracts for our services are generally awarded on a competitive bid basis, and although 9 Table of Contents clients may consider, among other things, the availability and capability of equipment and the reputation and experience of the contractor, price is a primary factor in determining which contractor is awarded a contract. This intense competition could result in pricing pressures, lower sales and reduced margins that would have an adverse effect on our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. We depend on certain significant clients and long-term contracts and the loss of one or more significant clients or the failure to replace or enter into new long-term contracts could adversely affect our operating results. In fiscal year 2007, BP Plc. (“BP”) accounted for approximately 24% of our net operating revenue from continuing operations, with ExxonMobil and Statoil ASA (“Statoil”) accounting for a further 12% and 9%, respectively. In fiscal year 2006, ExxonMobil accounted for approximately 23% of our net operating revenue from continuing operations, with Statoil and BP accounting for a further 17% and 15%, respectively. In fiscal year 2005, Statoil accounted for approximately 20% of our net operating revenue from continuing operations, with BP and Total Fina Elf (“Total”) accounting for a further 15% and 14%, respectively. Our ten largest clients during fiscal year 2007 accounted for approximately 81% (2006: 83%) of our net operating revenue from continuing operations, and during those three fiscal years six clients, Total, Statoil, Petróleo Brasileiro SA (“Petrobras”), ExxonMobil, ConocoPhillips and BP consistently numbered among our ten largest clients. Revenues from our largest clients are often related to specific long-term contracts that, upon completion, may not be replaced by contracts of equivalent size. Revenue from continuing operations that was derived from long-term contracts was approximately 96% in fiscal year 2007 (2006: 94%). Our inability to replace significant long-term projects on similar terms or the loss of any one or more of our significant clients or a substantial decrease in demand by our significant clients could result in a substantial loss of revenues which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. We could be adversely affected if we fail to keep pace with the technological changes, and changes in technology could result in write-downs of assets. Our clients are seeking to develop oil and gas fields in increasingly deeper waters. To meet our clients’ needs, we must continuously develop new, and update existing technology for the installation, repair and maintenance of offshore structures. In addition, rapid and frequent technology and market demand changes can render existing technologies obsolete, requiring substantial new capital expenditures and write-downs of assets. Any failure by us to anticipate or to respond adequately and timely to changing technology, market demands and client requirements could adversely affect our business and financial results. If we are unable to attract and retain skilled workers in a competitive environment, our business will be adversely affected. We require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. Competition for skilled personnel and other labor required to support tender activities and project execution has intensified due to increased demand for these services during fiscal year 2007, leading to a general scarcity of human resources in our industry. Failure to attract or retain such qualified personnel could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We may experience constraints in our supply chain due to the increased current and planned expenditure increases by clients in our industry. Current market conditions, including current and planned capital expenditure increases by our clients, have triggered capacity constraints in the material, equipment and sub-contracted construction supply chains, in particular continued increases in the price of raw materials and equipment, stretched construction and installation capacity and longer equipment delivery lead times are creating additional project execution risks. These supply chain bottlenecks could negatively affect our results of operations. 10 Table of Contents Our international operations expose us to the risk of fluctuations in currency exchange rates. The revenue and costs of operations and financial position of many of our non-U.S. subsidiaries are measured initially in the local currencies of countries in which those subsidiaries reside. That financial information is then translated into U.S. dollars (our reporting currency) at the applicable exchange rates for inclusion in the Consolidated Financial Statements. In fiscal year 2007, approximately 71% of our net operating revenue from continuing operations was generated in local currencies and translated into U.S. dollars (2006: 45%). In fiscal year 2007, approximately 27% of our net operating revenue from continuing operations was generated in Euros, 14% in British pounds sterling and 20% in Norwegian kroners. In fiscal year 2006, the corresponding percentages were 16%, 14% and 12%, respectively. The exchange rate between these currencies and the U.S. dollar may fluctuate substantially, which could have a significant translation effect on our reported consolidated results of operations and financial position. In addition, we are subject to currency risk exposure when our revenue is denominated in currencies that are different from those in which our expenses are incurred. In this case, if the value of the currency in which our revenue is recorded weakens relative to the currency in which we incur expenses, then there is an adverse impact on our profit margin. We attempt to manage our foreign currency exchange exposure by using derivative instruments to hedge revenue or expenditure that is not in the functional currency of a given subsidiary. However, we cannot eliminate such exposure and, therefore, currency exchange rate movements and volatility can have a material adverse impact on our financial position. We are exposed to substantial hazards, risks and delays that are inherent in the offshore services business for which liabilities may potentially exceed our insurance coverage and contractual indemnity provisions. Our operations are subject to all the risks normally associated with offshore construction and services and could result in injury or death to personnel or third parties, damage to or loss of property and/or suspension of operations. The Group’s operations are conducted in hazardous environments where accidents involving catastrophic damage or loss of life could result, and such an event may result in our being named a defendant in lawsuits asserting large claims. The Group insures for liability arising from our operations, both onshore and offshore, including death or injury to employees or third parties, loss of or damage to third-party property and pollution. All such insurance is carried at levels of coverage and deductibles that we consider financially prudent, although there can be no assurance that the amount of insurance we carry is sufficient to protect us fully in all events. A successful liability claim for which we are underinsured or uninsured could have a material adverse effect on us. We generally seek to obtain indemnity agreements from our clients requiring them to hold us harmless in the event of damage to existing facilities, loss of production or liability for pollution. Such contractual indemnification, however, does not generally cover liability resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of, or violation of law by, our employees or subcontractors. Additionally, if we suffer a loss for which we are entitled to indemnity, we are dependent on our client’s ability to satisfy its indemnity obligation. If the client cannot satisfy its obligation, we could suffer losses. Our reputation and our ability to do business may be impaired by corrupt behavior by any of our employees or agents or those of our subsidiaries. We and our affiliates operate in countries known to experience governmental corruption. While we and our subsidiaries are committed to conducting business in a legal and ethical manner, there is a risk that our employees or agents may take actions that violate either the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or legislation promulgated pursuant to the 1997 OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions or other applicable anti-corruption regulations. These actions could result in monetary penalties against us or our subsidiaries and could damage our reputation and, therefore, our ability to do business. 11 Table of Contents In addition to the risks that arise in countries that have experienced governmental corruption, there is also a risk that we will not be able to ensure that our internal control policies and procedures will protect us from fraud or other criminal acts committed by our employees. In fiscal year 2004, the Audit Committee noted a lack of formality in our anti-fraud program, which we have addressed by, among other things, appointing a Head of Compliance and introducing programs designed to enhance awareness of whistle blowing procedures. Despite taking these measures, our management determined as of November 30, 2005 that the lack of formality in our antifraud program constituted a “material weakness” in our internal control over financial reporting. The Group took additional steps in fiscal year 2006 and management believes that this material weakness has been remediated; however, because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, there can be no assurance that all instances of fraud will be or have been detected. Financial Risks Our use of the “percentage-of-completion” method for accounting for projects could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profits. Substantially all of our projects are accounted for on the percentage-of-completion method, which is standard for our industry and in compliance with the relevant accounting standards. Under the percentage-of-completion method, estimated contract revenues are accrued based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs, taking into account the level of physical completion. Estimated contract losses are recognized in full when determined. Contract revenues and total cost estimates are reviewed and revised periodically as work progresses and as variation orders are approved, and adjustments based on the percentage of completion are reflected in contract revenues in the reporting period when these estimates are revised. To the extent that these adjustments result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported contract revenues, we would recognize a charge against current earnings that may be significant depending on the size of the project or the adjustment. If we are not able to make reasonably dependable estimates, we would not be able to use the “percentage-of-completion” method for accounting for long-term contracts. Revisions to estimates on major projects from continuing operations had a positive impact in fiscal year 2007 of $127.9 million (2006: positive impact of $74.2 million, 2005: positive impact of $60.3 million) and an adverse impact of $10.1 million (2006: negative impact of $18.7 million, 2005: negative impact of $15.4 million). Under the relevant accounting standards the percentage-of-completion method of accounting for long-term contracts can be used as long as we can make reasonably dependable estimates of progress toward completion of such contracts, of contract revenues and contract costs. If we were not able to make reasonably dependable estimates, we would be obliged to use the “zero-estimate-of-profit” method or the “completed contract” method. Under the zero-estimate-of-profit method, we would not recognize any profit before a contract is completed. Under the completed contract method, all costs, revenues and profits are accumulated in balance sheet accounts until project completion. In order to centralize our expertise on making estimates of contract revenues and contract costs, we have established a separate estimating department in Acergy Africa and Mediterranean, as this is the segment with the most significant long-term contracts. If, despite these measures, we experience adverse developments in our long-term contracts, we may not be able to establish that we can develop reasonably dependable estimates of our progress toward completion of such contracts, contract revenues and contract costs. If we are unable to continue to use the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, our earnings may be materially adversely impacted, resulting in, among other things, a potential default under the $400 million amended and restated revolving credit and guarantee facility. Our ability to service indebtedness and fund our operations depends on cash flows from our subsidiaries. As a holding company, our principal assets consist of our direct or indirect shareholdings in our subsidiaries. Accordingly, our ability to make required payments of interest and principal on our indebtedness and funding of our operations is affected by the ability of our operating subsidiaries, our principal source of cash flow, to 12 Table of Contents transfer available cash to us. The inter-company transfer of funds and repatriation of profit or capital (by way of dividends, inter-company loans or otherwise) may be restricted or prohibited by legal requirements applicable to the respective subsidiaries and their directors, especially in the event that our liquidity or financial position is uncertain. In addition, such repatriation of profits, capital or funds could be subject to tax at various levels within our corporate structure and, depending on where tax is payable, our effective rate may be adversely affected. Our operations are subject to a significant number of tax regimes, and changes in the legislation governing the rules implementing them or the regulator enforcing them in any one of these countries could negatively and adversely affect our results of operations. Our operations are carried out in several countries across the world, through branches and subsidiaries and our tax filings are therefore subject to the jurisdiction of a significant number of tax authorities and tax regimes, as well as cross-border tax treaties between governments. Furthermore, the offshore mobile nature of our operations means that we routinely have to deal with complex domestic and international tax issues as well as competing and developing tax systems where tax treaties may not exist or where the legislative framework is unclear. In addition, our international operations (such as transfer pricing, permanent establishment or similar issues) are taxed on different bases that vary from country to country, including net profit, deemed net profit (generally based on turnover) and revenue-based withholding taxes based on turnover. We determine our tax provision based on our interpretation of enacted local tax laws and existing practices and use assumptions regarding the tax deductibility of items and recognition of revenue. Changes in these assumptions and practices could impact the amount of income taxes that we provide for in any given year and could negatively and adversely affect the result of our operations. Our tax liabilities could increase as a result of changes in the Luxembourg tax regime. The Luxembourg Holding Company Law of 1929 defines holding companies as companies established in Luxembourg that solely exercise certain activities, such as investment in equity and debt securities and grant of financial assistance under certain conditions, with respect to companies in which they hold investments. These holding companies, of which we are one, are exempt from Luxembourg’s corporate taxes on earnings, including dividends, interest and royalties as well as on payments, including dividends and royalties. As a result of the European Commission’s conclusion that the special tax status described above constitutes a disguised subsidy, this special tax status will terminate on January 1, 2011 and we will become subject to Luxembourg’s ordinary tax regime, if we were to maintain our status and present structure as a Luxembourg company. This would increase our tax liabilities compared to our current exempt status. In light of the changes to the Luxembourg tax regime, we are evaluating corporate structuring alternatives to maximize the efficiency of our corporate structure and holdings. However, there can be no guarantee that such alternatives will be as beneficial, or more beneficial from a tax perspective than our current corporate structure. We may also not pursue any such alternatives. Our tax liabilities could increase as a result of changes in the UK Tonnage Tax regime. Our UK ship owning subsidiaries are currently taxed within the UK tonnage tax regime. A key feature of this regime is that the commercial profits from the ship operations qualifying as tonnage tax activities are adjusted by reference to a formula linked to the tonnage of the vessels before being taxed at the UK statutory tax rate. This has resulted in a lower tax charge than would have been accrued had we not elected to join the UK tonnage tax regime. On January 23, 2008, the UK government announced its intention to change the UK tonnage tax legislation with effect from April 1, 2008 following discussions with the European Commission regarding the interpretation of the guidelines on state aid. 13 Table of Contents We are currently evaluating the impact of this proposed legislation and the subsequent announcement made on March 6, 2008 withdrawing the technical note containing this proposed legislation. However, if the UK government proceeds as announced on January 23, 2008, it is expected that the legislation would exclude the vessels owned by our UK subsidiaries, from the UK tonnage tax regime which could lead to an increase in our future tax charge. We also continue to explore alternative ship owning structures, but there can be no assurance that such alternatives will be as beneficial from a tax perspective as under the current UK tonnage tax regime. We may also not pursue any such alternatives. Our tax liabilities could increase as a result of adverse tax audits, enquiries or settlements We are either currently under audit, enquiry or investigation, or we may be subject to future audits, enquiries or investigations, in a number of jurisdictions in which we operate. In accordance with applicable accounting rules relating to contingencies, we provide taxes for the amounts that we consider probable of being payable as a result of these audits and for which a reasonable estimate may be made. We also separately consider if taxes payable in relation to filings not yet subject to audit may be higher than the amounts stated in our filed tax return, and make additional provisions for probable risks if appropriate. As forecasting the ultimate outcome includes some uncertainty, there is a risk that adjustments will be recognized to our tax provisions in later years as and when these and other matters are finalized with the appropriate tax authorities. In fiscal year 2007, we accrued a net tax charge of $49 million (excluding interest which was reflected as an interest expense) in respect of (i) our ongoing tax audits ($26 million) and (ii) the review of uncertain tax positions undertaken in the year ($23 million). In accordance with the provisions of FAS 109(9)(e), an additional amount of $10.8 million in respect of tax on intra-Group transfers of assets was deferred as a prepayment in the balance sheet. It is possible that the ultimate resolution of these matters could result in tax charges that are materially higher or lower than the amount we have provided. In fiscal year 2007, our operations in various countries were subject to enquiries, audits and disputes, including but not limited to those in France, Netherlands, UK, the United States, Norway, Indonesia and Congo. These audits are all at various stages of completion. The incremental adjustment arising from these tax investigations was an additional provision of $36.8 million (2006: $0.5 million) including penalties but excluding interest. In accordance with the provisions of FAS 109(9)(e), of the incremental provision of $36.8 million, an amount of $10.8 million (tax and penalties) relating to intercompany transfers of depreciable assets, has been recorded in prepaid expenses in our consolidated balance sheet and not charged to the consolidated statement of operations. Under FAS 109(9)(e), these prepaid expenses will be amortized to the consolidated statement of operations over the useful life of the underlying assets. This incremental provision arises from both adjustments that we have agreed with the relevant tax authorities and changes that we have made to the amount probable of being paid in two countries, the Netherlands and France. Our operating entities in these countries have co-operated fully with the relevant tax authorities while seeking to robustly defend their tax positions. The audit in the Netherlands was resolved in fiscal year 2007 and covered the fiscal years from 2000 to 2004. The audit in France, which commenced in February 2007, has continued into fiscal year 2008. The tax audit in France involves several legal entities and initially covered the fiscal years from 2004 to 2006. However, the audit scope has effectively been extended to fiscal year 2000 by way of a challenge to our utilization of losses brought forward. In addition, the French tax authorities have adopted a very wide ranging approach and have raised a number of challenges including both international tax issues such as transfer pricing and territoriality as well as more routine domestic French matters. This has created added complexity and uncertainty, and has caused management to reassess its estimate of the eventual probable outcome and increase its pre-existing provision for French taxes. It may be necessary to defend our tax filings in court if a reasonable settlement cannot be reached with the French tax authorities. 14 Table of Contents In addition to the tax audit noted above, in October 2007, the French tax authorities also conducted a formal search of our French subsidiary’s offices in Paris. The documents authorizing the search claim that we had inaccurately reported to the French tax authorities the extent of our activities and revenues in France in an effort to minimize French taxes. We will defend our tax positions and have appealed the authorization to search to the French Supreme Court. During 2007, in preparation for the possible adoption of FIN 48 next year, management also completed a detailed review of uncertain tax positions across the Group. Although we do not now have to adopt FIN 48 because of our transition from U.S. GAAP to International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) with effect from December 1, 2007, the information gathered during this review was used in quantifying the best estimate of the probable liability accrued under SFAS No. 5 “Accounting for Contingencies” as at November 30, 2007. The principal risks identified during this review were issues that arise in respect of permanent establishment, transfer pricing and other similar international tax issues. In common with other international groups, the conflict between the Group’s global operating model and the jurisdictional approach of taxing authorities often leads to uncertainty on tax positions. Based on this review, management has revised its estimate of the most probable liability and has accrued additional taxes of $23 million excluding interest. In addition to those liabilities deemed probable, we also identified other uncertain tax positions which are considered less than probable but more than remote. Currently no provision is carried for these additional risk items. In the UK, an enquiry was started with respect to our UK ship owning companies and the amount of profits allocated to transport activities and therefore eligible for tonnage tax treatment. Under the UK tonnage tax regime the commercial profits of our UK ship owning companies arising from transport operations (allocated on a just and reasonable basis) are subject to tax calculated by reference to a formula linked to the tonnage of the vessels concerned. The enquiry covers fiscal year 2003 but is expected to extend into later fiscal years during the course of fiscal year 2008. While we consider it possible that a liability will arise, currently no provision has been accrued for this risk. We cannot reasonably estimate the risk at this stage and the eventual resolution and quantification of this contingency will be influenced by the recently announced changes to the UK tonnage tax regime. The cumulative benefit for all fiscal years to November 30, 2007 arising from being within the UK tonnage tax regime since fiscal year 2002 is $11.6 million, excluding the total release of the deferred tax liability on ships of $36 million in the fiscal years ended November 30, 2001 and 2002. Had we not been (wholly or partially) within the UK tonnage tax regime, it is likely that additional accelerated capital allowances would have been available on fixed asset additions to reduce the immediate cash tax cost of any successful challenge by the UK tax authorities. However this would have increased our total deferred tax liability. For more information about these proceedings, please refer to Note 12 “Income tax” to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Although we believe that we are adequately reserved for the associated liabilities, if a tax authority seek to impose assessments or require payments in excess of the amounts we currently expect to pay and we are unsuccessful in challenging these assessments or demands, we could be required to record additional liabilities that could be material to our cash flows and results of operations. Our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting may identify “material weaknesses” in the future and may result in an attestation with an adverse opinion from our independent auditors, which could reduce confidence in our financial statements and negatively affect the price of our securities. We are required by the SEC, as directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to include a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting in our annual reports on Form 20-F that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our independent auditors must attest to and report on management’s assessment of that effectiveness. These requirements have been included in this annual report on Form 20-F. As at November 30, 2007, we believe that we maintain effective internal control over our financial reporting. However, there can be no assurance that in future periods there will be no material weaknesses identified. 15 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Shares Our Articles of Incorporation impose restrictions on the ownership of our shares. Our Articles of Incorporation provide that in recognition of the fact that certain shareholdings may threaten us with “imminent and grave damage” (as defined in our Articles of Incorporation), which term we understand is likely to include adverse tax consequences, a hostile takeover attempt or adverse governmental sanctions, (i) no U.S. Person (as defined in our Articles of Incorporation) shall own, directly or indirectly, more than 9.9% of our outstanding shares, (ii) all shareholders of any single country may not own, directly or indirectly, more than 49.9% of our outstanding shares, and (iii) no person may own, directly or indirectly, more than 20.0% of our outstanding shares unless a majority of the Board of Directors shall have authorized such shareholding in advance. The Board of Directors may take remedial action if it determines that we are threatened with “imminent and grave damage.” The Group has been advised by our Luxembourg counsel, Elvinger, Hoss & Prussen, that there are no Luxembourg judicial interpretations of such phrase, but those situations involving hostile takeovers, adverse tax consequences to us or governmental sanctions are likely to be among the situations covered by that phrase. These defensive measures may have the effect of making a merger involving us, or a tender offer, or an open-market purchase program or other purchase of our shares more difficult, in circumstances that could give shareholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price for their shares. 