ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We are subject to a number of risks including our ability to successfully reorganize the Company in the Chapter 11 Case and general business and financial risk factors. Any or all of such factors below, could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Before making an investment decision, the investor should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other public filings made with the SEC before making an investment decision with respect to our securities. The following risk factors set forth the risks that we believe are material to our business, financial condition, assets, operations and equity interests. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to our Business The Chapter 11 Case may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and prospects. Risk factors involving the Chapter 11 Case include, but are not limited to, the following: •There can be no assurance that the Plan will be consummated or, if it is not consummated, that we will be able to successfully develop, prosecute, confirm and consummate one or more plans of reorganization with respect to the Chapter 11 Case that are acceptable to the Bankruptcy Court and the Company's creditors, equity holders and other parties in interest. •The Chapter 11 Case may adversely affect our business prospects and/or our ability to operate during the reorganization. •The Chapter 11 Case and attendant difficulties of operating our properties while attempting to reorganize the business in bankruptcy may make it more difficult to maintain and promote our properties and attract customers to our properties. •The Chapter 11 Case will cause us to incur substantial costs for professional fees and other expenses associated with the bankruptcy. •The Chapter 11 Case may adversely affect our ability to maintain our gaming licenses in the jurisdictions in which we operate. 23 •The Chapter 11 Case will prevent us from continuing to grow our business through acquisitions and may restrict our ability to pursue other business strategies. Among other things, the Bankruptcy Code limits our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make investments, sell assets, consolidate, merge or sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets or grant liens. These restrictions may place us at a competitive disadvantage. •The Chapter 11 Case may adversely affect our ability to maintain, expand, develop and remodel our properties. •Transactions by the Debtors outside the ordinary course of business are subject to the prior approval of the Bankruptcy Court, which may limit our ability to respond timely to certain events or take advantage of certain opportunities. •We may not be able to obtain Bankruptcy Court approval or such approval may be delayed with respect to actions we seek to undertake in the Chapter 11 Case. •We may be unable to retain and motivate key executives and employees through the process of reorganization, and we may have difficulty attracting new employees. In addition, so long as the Chapter 11 Case continues, our senior management will be required to spend a significant amount of time and effort dealing with the reorganization instead of focusing exclusively on business operations. •There can be no assurances as to our ability to maintain sufficient financing sources to fund our reorganization plan and meet future obligations. •Even assuming a successful emergence from Chapter 11, there can be no assurance as to the overall long-term viability of our reorganized company. Prolonged continuation of the Chapter 11 Cases may harm our business. If the Chapter 11 Cases continue for a prolonged amount of time, the proceedings could adversely affect our business and operations. So long as the Chapter 11 Cases continue, our senior management will be required to spend a significant amount of time and effort dealing with our reorganization instead of focusing exclusively on business operations. Prolonged continuation of the Chapter 11 Cases will also make it more difficult to attract and retain management and other key personnel necessary to the success and growth of our business. In addition, the longer the Chapter 11 Cases continue, the more likely it is that our customers, suppliers and agents will lose confidence in our ability to successfully reorganize our business and seek to establish alternative commercial relationships. Furthermore, so long as the Chapter 11 Cases continue, we will be required to incur substantial costs for professional fees and other expenses associated with the Chapter 11 Cases. Prolonged continuation of the Chapter 11 Cases may also require us to seek additional financing. It may not be possible for us to obtain additional financing during or after the Chapter 11 Cases on commercially favorable terms or at all. If we were to require additional financing during the Chapter 11 Cases and were unable to obtain the financing on favorable terms or at all, our chances of successfully reorganizing our business may be seriously jeopardized. The bankruptcy filing has had a negative impact on our image and may negatively impact our business going forward. As a result of the Chapter 11 Cases, we have been the subject of negative publicity which has had an impact on our image. This negative publicity may have an effect on the terms under which some customers and suppliers are willing to continue to do business with us and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, future business prospects and results of operations. The impact of this negative publicity cannot be accurately predicted or quantified. 24 There is doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The audited consolidated financial statements of the Company contained elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K have been prepared assuming that we will continue as a going concern. However, the report of the independent registered public accounting firm on the financial statements of the Company as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010 includes an explanatory paragraph describing the existence of substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. This report, as well as the uncertainty regarding the eventual outcome of the Chapter 11 Cases may adversely impact our relationships with vendors, ability to attract customers to our casino properties, attract and retain key executive employees and maintain and promote its properties, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. We have incurred operating losses in recent fiscal periods. Unless we are able to improve our results of operations, we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flows to meet our debt obligations and finance all operating expenses, working capital needs and capital expenditures. We incurred operating losses of $209.1 million, $1.2 billion and $3.2 billion for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We may incur operating losses in the future. We may be unable to generate sufficient revenues and cash flows to service our debt obligations as they come due, finance capital expenditures and meet our operational needs. Any one of these failures may preclude us from, among other things: •maintaining or enhancing our casino properties; •taking advantage of future opportunities; •growing our business; or •responding to competitive pressures. Further, our failure to generate sufficient revenues and cash flows could lead to cash flow and working capital constraints, which may require us to seek additional working capital. We may not be able to obtain such working capital when it is required. Further, even if we were able to obtain additional working capital, it may only be available on unfavorable terms. For example, we may be required to take on additional debt, the interest costs of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Limited liquidity and working capital may also restrict our ability to maintain and update our casino properties, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage to casinos offering more modern and better maintained facilities. Our business is sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer spending as a result of downturns in the economy. Consumer demand for casino hotel properties, such as our casino properties, is sensitive to downturns in the economy and the corresponding impact on discretionary spending on leisure activities. Changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences brought about by factors such as perceived or actual general economic conditions and customer confidence in the economy, unemployment, the current housing and credit crisis, the impact of high energy and food costs, the potential for continued bank failures, perceived or actual changes in disposable consumer income and wealth, effects or fears of war and future acts of terrorism could further reduce customer demand for the amenities that we offer and materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. The current housing crisis and economic slowdown in the United States has resulted in significant unemployment in our key markets and a significant decline in the amount of tourism and spending in Las Vegas. This decline has adversely affected us, and may continue to adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash. 25 The economic downturn may be protracted in our key markets and may continue to negatively impact our revenues and other operating results. Our casino properties draw a substantial number of customers from the Las Vegas valley, as well as certain geographic areas, including Southern California, Arizona and Utah. The economies of these areas have been, and may continue to be, negatively impacted due to a number of factors, including the credit crisis and a decrease in consumer confidence levels. The resulting severe economic downturn and adverse conditions in the local markets have negatively affected our operations, and may continue to negatively affect our operations in the future. Based on information from the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority, gaming revenues in Clark County for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased 0.8% from the level in the comparable period of the prior year. Las Vegas gaming revenues and operators were severely negatively impacted by the economic downturn and there can be no assurance that gaming revenues will not decrease in future periods. In addition, the residential real estate market in the United States, and in particular Las Vegas, has experienced a significant downturn due to declining real estate values. Individual consumers are experiencing higher delinquency rates on various consumer loans and defaults on indebtedness of all kinds have increased. In addition, the Las Vegas and our other target markets continue to experience and high rates of unemployment. All of these factors have materially and adversely affected our results of operations. Further declines in real estate values in Las Vegas and the United States and continuing credit and liquidity concerns could continue to have an adverse affect on our results of operations. Although we and other gaming companies have experienced a decrease in revenues, certain costs remain fixed or even increase resulting in decreased earnings or net losses. Gaming and other leisure activities that we offer represent discretionary expenditures and participation in such activities has been particularly adversely impacted as a result of the economic downturn because consumers have less disposable income to spend on discretionary activities. The current economic condition has adversely affected consumer spending at our gaming operations and related facilities and may continue to adversely affect our business. Furthermore, other uncertainties, including national and global economic conditions, other global events, or terrorist attacks or disasters in or around Southern Nevada could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our casino properties use significant amounts of electricity, natural gas and other forms of energy. While no shortages of energy have been experienced, the substantial increase in the cost of electricity, natural gas and gasoline in the United States has negatively affected our operating results. Because we are a highly leveraged company, if adverse regional and national economic conditions persist or worsen, the decreased revenues from our casino properties attributable to decreases in consumer spending levels may result in a failure to satisfy additional financial and other restrictive covenants to which we are subject under our outstanding indebtedness. Furthermore, due to the existing uncertainty in the capital and credit markets, we may not be able to refinance our then-existing debt or obtain additional credit facilities on terms acceptable to us or at all. We depend on the Las Vegas locals and repeat visitor markets as our key markets. As a result, we may not be able to attract a sufficient number of guests and gaming customers to make our operations profitable. Our operating strategies emphasize attracting and retaining customers from the Las Vegas local and repeat visitor market. Our casino properties are dependent upon attracting Las Vegas residents. We cannot be sure that we will be able to attract a sufficient number of guests, gaming customers and other visitors in Nevada to make our operations profitable. In addition, our strategy of growth through master-planning of our casinos for future expansion, was developed, in part, based on projected population growth in Las Vegas. During the economic downturn, the Las Vegas valley has not experienced population growth at the expected rates or at the same rates as it experienced prior to the economic downturn. There can be no assurance that population growth in Las Vegas will return to levels that justify future development, additional casinos or expansion of our current casino properties or that we will be able to successfully adapt our business strategy to the current economic downturn or any further economic slowdown. 26 We face substantial competition in the gaming industry and may experience a loss of market share. Our casino properties face competition from all other casinos and hotels in the Las Vegas area including, to some degree, from each other. In addition, our casino properties face competition from all smaller non-restricted gaming locations and restricted gaming locations (locations with 15 or fewer slot machines) in the greater Las Vegas area, including those that primarily target the local and repeat visitor markets. Major additions, expansions or enhancements of existing properties or the construction of new properties by competitors, could also have a material adverse effect on our business. For further details on competition in the gaming industry that will affect our business, see "Item 1. Business—Competition." To a lesser extent, our casino properties compete with gaming operations in other parts of the state of Nevada, such as Reno, Laughlin and Lake Tahoe, and other gaming markets in the United States and in other parts of the world, with state sponsored lotteries, on-and-off-track pari-mutuel wagering, a system of betting under which wagers are placed in a pool, management receives a fee from the pool, and the remainder of the pool is split among the winning wagers, card rooms and other forms of legalized gambling. The gaming industry also includes land-based casinos, dockside casinos, riverboat casinos, racetracks with slots and casinos located on Native American land. There is intense competition among companies in the gaming industry, some of which have significantly greater resources than we do. Several states are currently considering legalizing casino gaming in designated areas. Legalized casino gaming in such states and on Native American land will result in strong competition that could adversely affect our operations, particularly to the extent that such gaming is conducted in areas close to our operations. We may incur losses that are not adequately covered by insurance which may harm our results of operations. Although we maintain insurance customary and appropriate for our business, we cannot assure you that insurance will be available or adequate to cover all loss and damage to which our business or our assets might be subjected. The lack of adequate insurance for certain types or levels of risk could expose us to significant losses in the event that a catastrophe occurred for which we are underinsured. Any losses we incur that are not adequately covered by insurance may decrease our future operating income, require us to find replacements or repairs for destroyed property and reduce the funds available for payments of our obligations. We are subject to litigation in the ordinary course of our business. An adverse determination with respect to any such disputed matter could result in substantial losses. We are, from time to time, during the ordinary course of operating our businesses, subject to various litigation claims and legal disputes, including contract, lease, employment and regulatory claims as well as claims made by visitors to our properties. In addition, there are litigation risks inherent in any construction or development of any of our casino properties. Certain litigation claims may not be covered entirely or at all by our insurance policies or our insurance carriers may seek to deny coverage. In addition, litigation claims can be expensive to defend and may divert our attention from the operations of our businesses. Further, litigation involving visitors to our properties, even if without merit, can attract adverse media attention. As a result, litigation can have a material adverse effect on our businesses and, because we cannot predict the outcome of any action, it is possible that adverse judgments or settlements could significantly reduce our earnings or result in losses. We may incur delays and budget overruns with respect to future construction projects. Any such delays or cost overruns may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We are currently providing funding for the proposed gaming facilities for the Federated Indians of Graton Rancheria and the North Fork Rancheria of Mono Indians (collectively, the "Native American Tribes"). We will evaluate expansion opportunities as they become available, and we may in the future develop projects in addition to the proposed facilities for the Native American Tribes. 27 Construction projects, such as the proposed gaming facilities for the Native American Tribes, entail significant risks, including the following: •shortages of material or skilled labor; •unforeseen engineering, environmental or geological problems; •work stoppages; •weather interference; •floods; and •unanticipated cost increases, any of which can give rise to delays or cost overruns. The anticipated costs and construction periods are based upon budgets, conceptual design documents and construction schedule estimates prepared by us in consultation with our architects and contractors. Construction, equipment, staffing requirements, problems or difficulties in obtaining any of the requisite licenses, permits, allocations or authorizations from regulatory authorities can increase the cost or delay the construction or opening of each of the proposed facilities or otherwise affect the project's planned design and features. We cannot be sure that we will not exceed the budgeted costs of these projects or that the projects will commence operations within the contemplated time frame, if at all. Budget overruns and delays with respect to expansion and development projects could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We may experience difficulty integrating operations of acquired companies and developed properties and managing our overall growth which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We may not be able to manage our operations, including the recently opened Gun Lake Casino, the proposed projects with the Native American Tribes and future acquired companies or developed properties effectively, or realize any of the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions, including streamlining operations or gaining efficiencies from the elimination of duplicative functions. The integration of other companies as assets will require continued dedication of management resources and may temporarily distract attention from our day-to-day business. In addition, because we plan to continue to pursue expansion and acquisition opportunities, we face significant challenges not only in managing and integrating the recently opened Gun Lake facility and the proposed projects with the Native American Tribes, but also managing our expansion projects and any other gaming operations we may acquire in the future. Management of these new projects will require increased managerial resources, and we intend to continue our efforts to enhance our gaming management team. However, there can be no assurances that we will succeed in doing so. Failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Unionization organization activities could disrupt our business by discouraging patrons from visiting our properties, causing labor disputes or work stoppages, and, if successful, could significantly increase our labor costs. None of our casino properties is currently subject to any collective bargaining agreement or similar arrangement with any union. However, union activists have actively sought to organize employees at certain of our casino properties in the past, and we believe that such efforts are ongoing at this time. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our casino properties will not ultimately be unionized. Union organization efforts that may occur in the future could cause disruptions to our casino properties and discourage patrons from visiting our properties and may cause us to incur significant costs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, union 28 activities may result in labor disputes, including work stoppages, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Furthermore, unfavorable union contract settlements or collective bargaining agreements, should they be entered into, could cause significant increases in our labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on the business of our casino properties and our financial condition and results of operation. Work stoppages, labor problems and unexpected shutdowns may limit our operational flexibility and negatively impact our future profits. Any work stoppage at one or more of our casino properties, including any construction projects which may be undertaken, could require us to expend significant funds to hire replacement workers, and qualified replacement labor may not be available at reasonable costs, if at all. Strikes and work stoppages could also result in adverse media attention or otherwise discourage customers from visiting our casino properties. Strikes and work stoppages involving laborers at any construction project which may be undertaken could result in construction delays and increases in construction costs. As a result, a strike or other work stoppage at one of our casino properties or any construction project could have an adverse effect on the business of our casino properties and our financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will not experience a strike or work stoppage at one or more of our casino properties or any construction project in the future. In addition, any unexpected shutdown of one of our casino properties or any construction project could have an adverse effect on the business of our casino properties and our results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be adequately prepared for unexpected events, including political or regulatory actions, which may lead to a temporary or permanent shutdown of any of our casino properties. We rely on key personnel, the loss of the services of whom could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our ability to operate successfully and competitively is dependent, in part, upon the continued services of certain of our officers and key employees. In the event that these officers and/or employees were to leave us, we might not be able to find suitable replacements. We believe that the loss of the services of these officers and/or employees could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We regularly pursue new gaming acquisition and development opportunities and may not be able to recover our investment or successfully expand to additional locations. We regularly evaluate and pursue new gaming acquisition and development opportunities in existing and emerging jurisdictions. These opportunities may take the form of joint ventures. To the extent that we decide to pursue any new gaming acquisition or development opportunities, our ability to benefit from such investments will depend upon a number of factors including: •our ability to identify and acquire attractive acquisition opportunities and development sites; •our ability to secure required federal, state and local licenses, permits and approvals, which in some jurisdictions are limited in number; •certain political factors, such as local support or opposition to development of new gaming facilities or legalizing casino gaming in designated areas; •the availability of adequate financing on acceptable terms (including waivers of restrictions in existing credit arrangements); and •our ability to identify and develop satisfactory relationships with joint venture partners. 29 Most of these factors are beyond our control. Therefore, we cannot be sure that we will be able to recover our investment in any new gaming development opportunities or acquired facilities, or successfully expand to additional locations. We have invested, and we will likely continue to invest, in real property in connection with the pursuit of expansion opportunities. These investments are subject to the risks generally incident to the ownership of real property, including: •changes in economic conditions; •environmental risks; •governmental rules and fiscal policies; and •other circumstances over which we may have little or no control. The development of such properties will also be subject to restrictions under our secured credit facilities. We cannot be sure that we will be able to recover our investment in any such properties or be able to prevent incurring investment losses. We are subject to extensive state and local regulation and licensing and gaming authorities will have significant control over our operations which could have an adverse effect on our business. Our ownership and operation of gaming facilities is subject to extensive regulation by the states, counties and cities in which we operate. These laws, regulations and ordinances vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. As such, our gaming regulators can require us to disassociate ourselves from suppliers or business partners found unsuitable by the regulators or, alternatively, cease operations in that jurisdiction. In addition, unsuitable activity on our part or on the part of our domestic or foreign unconsolidated affiliates in any jurisdiction could have a negative effect on our ability to continue operating in other jurisdictions. Holders of our securities who fail to obtain any licenses, authorizations, qualifications or findings of suitability, as may be required by Nevada Gaming authorities, will not be entitled to exercise any rights of ownership with respect to or receive any income from such securities. For a summary of gaming and other regulations that will affect our business, see "Item 1. Business—Regulation and Licensing." The regulatory environment in any particular jurisdiction may change in the future and any such change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, we are subject to various gaming taxes, which are subject to possible increase at any time. Increases in gaming taxation could also adversely affect our results. Changes to the gaming tax laws could have an adverse effect on results of operations by increasing the cost of operating our business. The gaming industry represents a significant source of tax revenue, particularly to the State of Nevada and its counties and municipalities. From time to time, various state and federal legislators and officials have proposed changes in tax law, or in the administration of such law, affecting the gaming industry. The Nevada Legislature meets every two years and when special sessions are called by the Governor. The Nevada legislative session began on February 7, 2011. There have been no specific proposals during the legislative session to increase gaming taxes, however there are no assurances an increase in gaming taxes will not be proposed and passed by the Nevada Legislature. An increase in the gaming tax could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 30 Unless we are considered a "publicly traded corporation" under the Nevada Gaming Control Act, each of our equityholders must be found suitable by the Nevada Gaming Authorities or we may be required to sever all relationships with such equityholder. Under the Nevada Gaming Control Act, persons who acquire beneficial ownership of more than 5% of our voting securities will be required to report their acquisition to the Nevada Gaming Authorities and persons who acquire beneficial ownership of more than 10% of our voting securities will be required to apply to the Nevada Gaming Authorities for a finding of suitability. Notwithstanding these provisions, under the Nevada Gaming Control Act, the Nevada Gaming Authorities may at any time, in their discretion, require the holder of any of our securities to file applications, be investigated and be found suitable to own our securities if they have reason to believe that the security ownership would be inconsistent with the declared policies of Nevada. We anticipate that, so long as we are a "publicly traded corporation" under the Nevada Gaming Control Act, the Nevada Gaming Authorities will require only our equityholders having beneficial ownership of more than 10% of our voting securities to be found suitable. If we cease to be, a "publicly traded corporation" under the Nevada Gaming Control Act, or if required by the Nevada Gaming Authorities, each of our equityholders would be required to be found suitable by the Nevada Gaming Authorities. If any equityholder fails to be found suitable, we may be required to sever all relationships, including through redemption of shares, with such equityholder, which may have a material adverse effect on our business and our equityholders. In addition, such holders of our securities who fail to obtain any necessary licenses, authorizations, qualifications or findings of suitability will not be entitled to exercise any rights of ownership with respect to or receive any income from such securities. Risks Related to our Substantial Indebtedness Our high leverage and debt service obligations could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations. As a result of the Merger, we are highly leveraged. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations has been significantly impacted by general economic, financial, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. We expect that we will remain highly leveraged following our restructuring and if our economic performance were to deteriorate, we may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to enable us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness outstanding following a restructuring. Our high level of debt and the covenants contained in our senior secured credit facilities and any debt that may remain outstanding following the consummation of the Plan or other restructuring could have important consequences, including: •Requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to required payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of such cash flow to fund our operations, working capital, capital expenditures, future business opportunities and other general corporate activities. •Making us vulnerable to increases in interest rates because a portion of our debt is at variable rates. •Limiting our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry. •Limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to fund our operations, working capital, capital expenditures, future business opportunities and other general corporate activities. •Placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less leveraged. 31 Depending on the terms of our restructuring, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in the applicable credit facilities and the indentures. If new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. A decline in our economic performance has adversely affected our ability to service all of our indebtedness. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to general economic, financial, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. Our performance has been significantly impacted by general economic and financial conditions, which has affected our cash flows from operating activities and our ability to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. As a result, we have elected not to make certain interest payments on our senior and senior subordinated notes prior to the filing of the Chapter 11 Case and initiated discussions with our lenders regarding a restructuring. In addition, a further deterioration in our economic performance may cause us to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. In addition, any such transaction would require the approval of the Bankruptcy Court. Conditions in the financial system and the capital and credit markets may negatively affect our ability to raise capital to fund capital expenditures, pursue proposed development, expansion or acquisition opportunities or refinance our significant indebtedness. Our business is capital intensive. For our casino properties to remain attractive and competitive we must periodically invest significant capital to keep the properties well-maintained, modernized and refurbished. Similarly, future construction and development projects, including but not limited to proposed gaming facilities for the Native American Tribes, and acquisitions of other gaming operations could require significant additional capital. We rely on earnings and cash flow from operations to finance our business, capital expenditures, development, expansion and acquisitions and, to the extent that we cannot fund such expenditures from cash generated by operations, funds must be borrowed or otherwise obtained. We will also be required in the future to refinance our outstanding debt. Our ability to effectively operate and grow our business may be constrained if we are unable to borrow additional capital or refinance existing borrowings on reasonable terms. The credit, financial and equity markets have experienced disruption that has had a dramatic impact on the availability and cost of capital and credit. While the United States and other governments have enacted legislation and taken other actions to help alleviate these conditions, there is no assurance that such steps will have the effect of easing the conditions in credit and capital markets. We are unable to predict the likely duration or severity of the current disruption in the capital and credit markets and we have no assurance that we will have further access to credit or capital markets at desirable times or at rates that we would consider acceptable, and the lack of such funding could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to service our indebtedness. Our ability to service all of our indebtedness depends on our ability to generate cash flow, which is subject to factors that are beyond our control. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to general economic, financial, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. Our performance has been significantly impacted by general economic and financial conditions, which has affected its cash flows from operating activities and its ability to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on its indebtedness. 32 In addition, a further deterioration in the economic performance of the casino properties may cause us to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 