ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to a number of risks including our ability to successfully reorganize the Company in the Chapter 11 Case and general business and financial risk factors. Any or all of such factors below, could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Before making an investment decision, the investor should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other public filings made with the SEC before making an investment decision with respect to our securities. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or that is currently deemed immaterial may also adversely affect our business operations, financial condition or results of operations. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business operations, financial condition or results of operations in which case the investor may lose all or part of its original investment. The Chapter 11 Case may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and prospects. Risk factors involving the Chapter 11 Case include, but are not limited to, the following: •There can be no assurance that the Joint Plan of Reorganization will be confirmed and consummated or, if it is not confirmed and consummated, that we will be able to successfully develop, prosecute, confirm and consummate one or more plans of reorganization with respect to the Chapter 11 Case that are acceptable to the Bankruptcy Court and the Company's creditors, equity holders and other parties in interest. Additionally, third parties may seek and obtain Bankruptcy Court approval to terminate or shorten the exclusivity period for the Company to propose and confirm one or more plans of reorganization, to appoint a Chapter 11 Trustee, or to convert the cases to Chapter 7 cases. •The Chapter 11 Case may adversely affect our business prospects and/or our ability to operate during the reorganization. •The Chapter 11 Case and attendant difficulties of operating our properties while attempting to reorganize the business in bankruptcy may make it more difficult to maintain and promote our properties and attract customers to our properties. •The Chapter 11 Case will cause us to incur substantial costs for professional fees and other expenses associated with the bankruptcy. •The Chapter 11 Case may adversely affect our ability to maintain our gaming licenses in the jurisdictions in which we operate. 16 •The Chapter 11 Case will prevent us from continuing to grow our business through acquisitions and may restrict our ability to pursue other business strategies. Among other things, the Bankruptcy Code limits our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make investments, sell assets, consolidate, merge or sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets or grant liens. These restrictions may place us at a competitive disadvantage. •The Chapter 11 Case may adversely affect our ability to maintain, expand, develop and remodel our properties. •Transactions by the Debtors outside the ordinary course of business are subject to the prior approval of the Bankruptcy Court, which may limit our ability to respond timely to certain events or take advantage of certain opportunities. •We may not be able to obtain Bankruptcy Court approval or such approval may be delayed with respect to actions we seek to undertake in the Chapter 11 Case. •We may be unable to retain and motivate key executives and employees through the process of reorganization, and we may have difficulty attracting new employees. In addition, so long as the Chapter 11 Case continues, our senior management will be required to spend a significant amount of time and effort dealing with the reorganization instead of focusing exclusively on business operations. •There can be no assurances as to our ability to maintain sufficient financing sources to fund our reorganization plan and meet future obligations. •Even assuming a successful emergence from Chapter 11, there can be no assurance as to the overall long-term viability of our reorganized company. The uncertainty regarding the eventual outcome of the Chapter 11 Case and the effect of other unknown adverse factors could threaten our existence as a going concern. Continuing on a going concern basis is dependent upon, among other things, confirming and consummating the Joint Plan of Reorganization or developing a plan of reorganization that is acceptable to our creditors and obtaining Bankruptcy Court approval of such a reorganization plan, maintaining our gaming licenses, maintaining the support of key vendors and customers and retaining key personnel, along with financial, business, and other factors, many of which our beyond our control. To date, we have not been successful in developing a plan of reorganization that is acceptable to our creditors. Under the priority scheme established by the Bankruptcy Code, unless creditors agree otherwise in accordance with the Bankruptcy Code, prepetition liabilities and post-petition liabilities must be satisfied in full before certain creditors and our equity holders are entitled to receive any distribution or retain any property under a plan of reorganization. The ultimate recovery to creditors and/or our shareholders, if any, will not be determined until confirmation of a plan of reorganization. No assurance can be given as to what values, if any, will be ascribed in the Chapter 11 Case to each of these constituencies or what types or amounts of distributions, if any, they would receive. If certain requirements of the Bankruptcy Code are met, a plan of reorganization can be confirmed notwithstanding its rejection by certain of the Company's creditors and the Company's equity holders and notwithstanding the fact that such creditors and equityholders do not receive or retain any property on account of their claims under the plan of reorganization. The audited consolidated financial statements of Station Casinos, Inc. contained elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K have been prepared assuming that the Company will continue as a going concern. However, the report of our independent registered public accounting firm on the financial statements of Station Casinos, Inc. as of and for the year ended December 31, 2009 includes an explanatory paragraph describing the existence of substantial doubt about the ability of the Company to 17 continue as a going concern. This report, as well as our uncertain ability to pay our debt service obligations, may adversely impact our ability to attract customers to our properties, attract and retain key executive employees and maintain and promote our properties, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Prolonged continuation of the Chapter 11 Cases may harm our business. If the Chapter 11 Cases continue for a prolonged amount of time, the proceedings could adversely affect our business and operations. So long as the Chapter 11 Cases continue, our senior management will be required to spend a significant amount of time and effort dealing with our reorganization instead of focusing exclusively on business operations. Prolonged continuation of the Chapter 11 Cases will also make it more difficult to attract and retain management and other key personnel necessary to the success and growth of our business. In addition, the longer the Chapter 11 Cases continue, the more likely it is that our customers, suppliers and agents will lose confidence in our ability to successfully reorganize our business and seek to establish alternative commercial relationships. Furthermore, so long as the Chapter 11 Cases continue, we will be required to incur substantial costs for professional fees and other expenses associated with the Chapter 11 Cases. Prolonged continuation of the Chapter 11 Cases may also require us to seek additional financing. It may not be possible for us to obtain additional financing during or after the Chapter 11 Cases on commercially favorable terms or at all. If we were to require additional financing during the Chapter 11 Cases and were unable to obtain the financing on favorable terms or at all, our chances of successfully reorganizing our business may be seriously jeopardized. Our high leverage and debt service obligations could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations. As a result of the Merger, we are highly leveraged. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations has been significantly impacted by general economic, financial, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. We expect that we will remain highly leveraged following our restructuring and if our economic performance were to deteriorate, we may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to enable us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness outstanding following a restructuring. Our high level of debt and the covenants contained in our senior secured credit facilities and any debt that may remain outstanding following the consummation of the Joint Plan of Reorganization or other restructuring could have important consequences, including: •Requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to required payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of such cash flow to fund our operations, working capital, capital expenditures, future business opportunities and other general corporate activities. •Making us vulnerable to increases in interest rates because a portion of our debt is at variable rates. •Limiting our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry. •Limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to fund our operations, working capital, capital expenditures, future business opportunities and other general corporate activities. •Placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less leveraged. Depending on the terms of our restructuring, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in the applicable credit facilities 18 and the indentures. If new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. Conditions in the financial system and the capital and credit markets may negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition to earnings and cash flows from operations, we rely on borrowed money to finance our business, which may be constrained if we are unable to borrow additional capital or refinance existing borrowings on reasonable terms. Developments in the financial markets, including the crisis in the banking system, a series of rating agency downgrades of subprime U.S. mortgage-related assets and significant provisions for loan losses recorded by major financial institutions have resulted in a severe tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets and other adverse conditions for issuers in fixed income, credit and equity markets. The credit, financial and equity markets have experienced disruption that has had a dramatic impact on the availability and cost of capital and credit. While the United States and other governments have enacted legislation and taken other actions to help alleviate these conditions, there is no assurance that such steps will have the effect of easing the conditions in credit and capital markets. Therefore, we have no assurance that we will have further access to credit or capital markets at desirable times or at rates that we would consider acceptable, and the lack of such funding could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to service our indebtedness. We are unable to predict the likely duration or severity of the current disruption in the capital and credit markets, or its impact on the larger economy. Recent instability in the financial markets have had an impact on our business and may continue to adversely affect us in the future. Recently, the residential real estate market in Las Vegas and the U.S. has experienced a significant downturn due to declining real estate values, substantially reducing mortgage loan originations and securitizations, and precipitating more generalized credit market dislocations and a significant contraction in available liquidity globally. These factors, combined with declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated an economic slowdown and a recession. Individual consumers are experiencing higher delinquency rates on various consumer loans and defaults on indebtedness of all kinds have increased. All of these factors have materially and adversely affected our results of operations. In addition, further declines in real estate values in Las Vegas and the U.S. or elsewhere and continuing credit and liquidity concerns could continue to have an adverse affect on our results of operations. A decline in our economic performance has adversely affected our ability to service all of our indebtedness. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to general economic, financial, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. Our performance has been significantly impacted by general economic and financial conditions, which has affected our cash flows from operating activities and our ability to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. As a result, we have elected not to make certain interest payments on our senior and senior subordinated notes prior to the filing of the Chapter 11 Case and initiated discussions with our lenders regarding a restructuring. In addition, a further deterioration in our economic performance may cause us to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. In addition, any such transaction would require the approval of the Bankruptcy Court. 19 Our business is sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer spending as a result of downturns in the economy. Consumer demand for casino hotel properties, such as ours, is sensitive to downturns in the economy and the corresponding impact on discretionary spending on leisure activities. Changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences brought about by factors such as perceived or actual general economic conditions, the current housing crisis and the credit crisis, the impact of high energy and food costs, the potential for continued bank failures, perceived or actual disposable consumer income and wealth, effects of the current recession and changes in consumer confidence in the economy, or fears of war and future acts of terrorism could further reduce customer demand for the amenities that we offer, thus imposing practical limits on pricing and harming our operations. The current housing crisis and economic slowdown in the United States has resulted in a significant decline in the amount of tourism and spending in Las Vegas. This decline has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash. Factors affecting the economy may harm our operating results. Our properties draw a substantial number of customers from the Las Vegas valley, as well as certain geographic areas, including Southern California, Arizona and Utah. The economies of these areas have recently been negatively impacted due to a number of factors, including the credit crisis and a decrease in consumer confidence levels. The resulting severe economic downturn and adverse conditions in these local markets have negatively affected our operations, and may continue to negatively affect our operations in the future. Based on information from the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority, gaming revenues in Las Vegas for the year ended December 31, 2009 have declined by 9.8% from the level in the comparable period of the prior year. During periods of economic contraction such as the current period, our revenues may decrease while some of our costs remain fixed or even increase, resulting in decreased earnings. Gaming and other leisure activities we offer represent discretionary expenditures and participation in such activities may decline during economic downturns, during which consumers generally earn less disposable income. The current economic condition has adversely affected consumer spending at our gaming operations and related facilities and may continue to adversely affect our business. Furthermore, other uncertainties, including national and global economic conditions, other global events, or terrorist attacks or disasters in or around Southern Nevada or Northern California could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our properties use significant amounts of electricity, natural gas and other forms of energy. While no shortages of energy have been experienced, the substantial increase in the cost of electricity, natural gas and gasoline in the United States has negatively affected our operating results. As we are a highly leveraged company, if adverse regional and national economic conditions persist or worsen, the decreased revenues from our operations attributable to decreases in consumer spending levels may result in a failure to satisfy additional financial and other restrictive covenants to which we are subject under our existing indebtedness or indebtedness that is outstanding following our restructuring. Furthermore, due to the existing uncertainty in the capital and credit markets, we may not be able to refinance our existing debt or obtain additional credit facilities on terms acceptable to us or at all. We depend on key markets and may not be able to continue to attract a sufficient number of guests and gaming customers in Nevada to make our operations profitable. Our operating strategies emphasize attracting and retaining customers from the Las Vegas local and repeat visitor market. All of our owned casino properties are dependent upon attracting Las Vegas residents. We cannot be sure that we will be able to continue to attract a sufficient number of guests, gaming customers and other visitors in Nevada to make our operations profitable. In addition, our operating strategy, including the master-planning of our casinos for future expansion, has been developed, in part, based on expected population growth in Las Vegas. There can be no assurance that growth will 20 continue in Las Vegas or that we will be able to successfully adapt to the current economic downturn or any further economic slowdown. We face substantial competition in the gaming industry. Our Nevada casino properties face competition from all other casinos and hotels in the Las Vegas area, including to some degree, from each other. In addition, our casino properties face competition from all smaller non-restricted gaming locations and restricted gaming locations (locations with 15 or fewer slot machines) in the greater Las Vegas area. As of December 31, 2009, there were approximately 1,415 restricted gaming locations with approximately 14,169 slot machines. We compete with other hotel/casinos and restricted gaming locations by focusing on repeat customers and attracting these customers through innovative marketing programs. Our value-oriented, high-quality approach is designed to generate repeat business. Additionally, our casino properties are strategically located and designed to permit convenient access and ample parking, which are critical factors in attracting local visitors and repeat patrons. Currently, there are approximately 37 major gaming properties located on or near the Las Vegas Strip, 16 located in the downtown area and several located in other areas of Las Vegas. Major additions, expansions or enhancements of existing properties or the construction of new properties by competitors, could also have a material adverse effect on the business of our casino properties. Our Nevada casino properties also face competition from 93 non-restricted gaming locations in the Las Vegas area primarily targeted to the local and the repeat visitor markets. Some of these competitors have completed construction or expansions and other existing competitors are under construction on other projects. Although we have competed strongly in these marketplaces, there can be no assurance that additional capacity will not have a negative impact on our business. In 1997, the Nevada legislature enacted Senate Bill 208. This legislation identified certain gaming enterprise districts wherein casino gaming development would be permitted throughout the Las Vegas valley and established more restrictive criteria for the establishment of new gaming enterprise districts. We believe the growth in gaming supply in the Las Vegas locals' market has been, and will continue to be, limited by the provisions of Senate Bill 208. To a lesser extent, our Nevada operations compete with gaming operations in other parts of the state of Nevada, such as Reno, Laughlin and Lake Tahoe, riverboat gaming markets in the Midwest and South, facilities in Atlantic City, New Jersey, casinos located on Native American land and in other parts of the world, with state-sponsored lotteries, on-and-off-track pari-mutuel wagering, card rooms and other forms of legalized gambling. Native American gaming in California, as it currently exists, has had little, if any impact on our Nevada operations to date, although there are no assurances as to future impact. In total, the State of California has signed and ratified Tribal-State Compacts with 69 Native American tribes. Currently there are 58 Native American casinos in operation in the State of California. These Native American tribes are allowed to operate slot machines, lottery games, and banking and percentage games (including "21") on Native American lands. It is not certain if any expansion of Native American gaming in California will affect our Nevada operations given that visitors from California make up Nevada's largest visitor market. Moreover, it is uncertain how soon any expansion would affect our interests in Native American gaming in California. Increased competition from Native American gaming may result in a decline in our revenues and may have a material adverse effect on our business. The gaming industry also includes land-based casinos, dockside casinos, riverboat casinos, racetracks with slots, casinos located on Native American land and other forms of legalized gaming. There is intense competition among companies in the gaming industry, some of which have significantly greater resources than we do. Several states are currently considering legalizing casino gaming in designated areas. Legalized casino gaming in such states and on Native American land will result in strong competition could adversely 21 affect our operations, particularly to the extent that such gaming is conducted in areas close to our operations. We may incur losses that are not adequately covered by insurance which may harm our results of operations. Although we maintain insurance customary and appropriate for our business, we cannot assure you that insurance will be available or adequate to cover all loss and damage to which our business or our assets might be subjected. The lack of adequate insurance for certain types or levels of risk could expose us to significant losses in the event that a catastrophe occurred for which we are underinsured. Any losses we incur that are not adequately covered by insurance may decrease our future operating income, require us to find replacements or repairs for destroyed property and reduce the funds available for payments of our obligations. Certain construction risks may arise during the building of any new property. We are currently providing funding for the proposed gaming facilities for the Federated Indians of Graton Rancheria, the Match-E-Be-Nash-She-Wish Band of Pottawatomi Indians, the Mechoopda Indian Tribe of Chico Rancheria, California and the North Fork Rancheria of Mono Indians (collectively the "Native American Tribes"). We evaluate expansion opportunities as they become available, and we may in the future develop projects in addition to the above listed projects. Construction projects, such as the proposed gaming facilities for the Native American Tribes entail significant risks, including the following: •shortages of material or skilled labor; •unforeseen engineering, environmental or geological problems; •work stoppages; •weather interference; •floods; and •unanticipated cost increases; any of which can give rise to delays or cost overruns. The anticipated costs and construction periods are based upon budgets, conceptual design documents and construction schedule estimates prepared by us in consultation with our architects and contractors. Construction, equipment, staffing requirements, problems or difficulties in obtaining any of the requisite licenses, permits, allocations or authorizations from regulatory authorities can increase the cost or delay the construction or opening of each of the proposed facilities or otherwise affect the project's planned design and features. We cannot be sure that we will not exceed the budgeted costs of these projects or that the projects will commence operations within the contemplated time frame, if at all. Budget overruns and delays with respect to expansion and development projects could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We may experience difficulty integrating operations of acquired companies and developed properties and managing our overall growth which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We may not be able to manage the combined operations of Station Casinos, Inc., including, the projects with the Native American Tribes and future acquired companies or developed properties effectively, or realize any of the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions, including streamlining operations or gaining efficiencies from the elimination of duplicative functions. The integration of other companies as 22 assets will require continued dedication of management resources and may temporarily detract attention from our day-to-day business. In addition, because we plan to continue to pursue expansion and acquisition opportunities, we face significant challenges not only in managing and integrating the projects with the Native American Tribes, but also managing our expansion projects and any other gaming operations we may acquire in the future. Management of these new projects will require increased managerial resources, and we intend to continue our efforts to enhance our gaming management team. However, there can be no assurances that we will succeed in doing so. Failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We rely on key personnel, the loss of the services of whom could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our ability to operate successfully and competitively is dependent, in part, upon the continued services of certain of our officers and key employees. In the event that these officers and/or employees were to leave us, we might not be able to find suitable replacements. We believe that the loss of the services of these officers and/or employees could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We regularly pursue new gaming acquisition and development opportunities and may not be able to recover our investment or successfully expand to additional locations. We regularly evaluate and pursue new gaming acquisition and development opportunities in existing and emerging jurisdictions. These opportunities have in the past, and may in the future, take the form of joint ventures. To the extent that we decide to pursue any new gaming acquisition or development opportunities, our ability to benefit from such investments will depend upon a number of factors including: •our ability to identify and acquire attractive acquisition opportunities and development sites; •our ability to secure required federal, state and local licenses, permits and approvals, which in some jurisdictions are limited in number; •certain political factors; •the availability of adequate financing on acceptable terms (including waivers of restrictions in existing credit arrangements); and •our ability to identify and develop satisfactory relationships with joint venture partners. Most of these factors are beyond our control. Therefore, we cannot be sure that we will be able to recover our investment in any new gaming development opportunities or acquired facilities, or successfully expand to additional locations. We have invested, and will likely continue to invest, in real property in connection with the pursuit of expansion opportunities. These investments are subject to the risks generally incident to the ownership of real property, including: •changes in economic conditions; •environmental risks; •governmental rules and fiscal policies; and •other circumstances over which we may have little or no control. 23 The development of such properties is also subject to restrictions under our credit facilities. We cannot be sure that we will be able to recover our investment in any such properties or be able to prevent incurring investment losses. We are subject to extensive state and local regulation and licensing and gaming authorities have significant control over our operations which could have an adverse effect on our business. Nevada Gaming Regulations The ownership and operation of casino gaming facilities and the manufacture and distribution of gaming devices in Nevada are subject to: (i) the Nevada Gaming Control Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the "Nevada Act"); and (ii) various local ordinances and regulations. Our gaming operations in Nevada are subject to the licensing and regulatory control of the Nevada Gaming Commission (the "Nevada Commission"), the Nevada State Gaming Control Board (the "Nevada Board"), the City of Las Vegas, the Clark County Liquor and Gaming Licensing Board (the "Clark County Board"), the City of North Las Vegas, the City of Henderson and certain other local regulatory agencies. The Nevada Commission, Nevada Board, City of Las Vegas, Clark County Board, City of North Las Vegas, City of Henderson, and certain other local regulatory agencies are collectively referred to as the "Nevada Gaming Authorities". The laws, regulations and supervisory procedures of the Nevada Gaming Authorities are based upon declarations of public policy which are concerned with, among other things: (i) the prevention of unsavory or unsuitable persons from having a direct or indirect involvement with gaming at any time or in any capacity; (ii) the establishment and maintenance of responsible accounting practices and procedures; (iii) the maintenance of effective controls over the financial practices of licensees, including the establishment of minimum procedures for internal controls and the safeguarding of assets and revenues, providing reliable record keeping and requiring the filing of periodic reports with the Nevada Gaming Authorities; (iv) the prevention of cheating and fraudulent practices; and (v) providing a source of state and local revenues through taxation and licensing fees. Changes in such laws, regulations and procedures could have an adverse effect on our gaming operations. Our direct and indirect subsidiaries that conduct gaming operations in Nevada are required to be licensed by the Nevada Gaming Authorities. The gaming licenses require the periodic payment of fees and taxes and are not transferable. Palace Station Hotel & Casino, Inc. ("PSHC"), Boulder Station, Inc. ("BSI"), Texas Station, LLC ("TSL"), Sunset Station, Inc. ("SSI"), Tropicana Station, Inc. ("TRSI"), Santa Fe Station, LLC. ("SFSL"), Charleston Station, LLC. ("CSL"), Fiesta Station, Inc. ("FSI"), Rancho Station, LLC ("RSL"), Lake Mead Station, Inc. ("LMSI"), Gold Rush Station, LLC ("GRS"), Magic Star Station, LLC ("MSS") and LML Station, LLC ("LML") have received licenses to conduct non-restricted gaming operations. In addition, Green Valley Ranch Gaming, LLC ("GVRG") has received licenses to conduct non-restricted gaming operations at Green Valley Ranch Resort Spa Casino and Aliante Gaming, LLC ("AGL") has received licenses to conduct non-restricted gaming operations at Aliante Station Casino + Hotel. Our ownership in GVRG and AGL are owned through intermediary companies known as GV Ranch Station, Inc. ("GVRS") and Aliante Station, LLC/Aliante Holding, LLC (collectively "ASL-AHL") respectively. Both GVRS and ASL-AHL are licensed as members and managers of GVRG and AGL respectively. Town Center Amusements, Inc., a Limited Liability Company ("TCAI") has been licensed to conduct non-restricted gaming operations at Barley's Casino & Brewing Company ("Barley's"), a micro brewery and casino located in Henderson, Nevada. Greens Café, LLC ("GC") has been licensed to conduct non-restricted gaming operations at The Greens, a restaurant and bar located in Henderson, Nevada and Sunset GV, LLC ("SGV") has been licensed to conduct non-restricted gaming operations at Wildfire Casino & Lanes ("Wildfire Lanes"), formerly Renata's Supper Club, a casino located in Henderson, Nevada. Station's ownership in TCAI, GC and SGV is held through an intermediary company known as Green Valley Station, Inc. ("GVSI"), which is licensed as a member and manager of TCAI, GC and SGV. We also own a minority interest in Fiesta Palms, LLC, d.b.a. Palms Casino Resort, which we hold 24 through our subsidiary, Palms Station, LLC ("PSL"). Station is registered by the Nevada Commission as a publicly traded corporation (a "Registered Corporation") and has been found suitable to own the stock of PSHC, BSI, TSL, SSI, TRSI, GVSI, SFSL, CSL, GVRS, FSI, RSL, LMSI, GRS, MSS and LML. We are also licensed as a manufacturer and distributor of gaming devices. PSHC, BSI, SSI, TRSI, GVSI, GVRG, FSI and LMSI are each a corporate gaming licensee and TCAI, TSL, GVRG, RSL, GRS, MSS, GC, PSL, LML, SGV, CSL, SFSL and AGL are each a limited liability company licensee (individually a "Gaming Subsidiary" and collectively the "Gaming Subsidiaries") under the terms of the Nevada Act. As a Registered Corporation, Station is required periodically to submit detailed financial and operating reports to the Nevada Commission and the Nevada Board and furnish any other information, which the Nevada Commission or the Nevada Board may require. No person may become a stockholder or holder of an interest of, or receive any percentage of profits from the Gaming Subsidiaries without first obtaining licenses and approvals from the Nevada Gaming Authorities. Station and the Gaming Subsidiaries have obtained from the Nevada Gaming Authorities the various registrations, findings of suitability, approvals, permits and licenses (individually, a "Gaming License" and collectively, the "Gaming Licenses") required in order to engage in gaming activities in Nevada. The Nevada Gaming Authorities may investigate any individual who has a material relationship to, or material involvement with, a Registered Corporation, such as Station or the Gaming Subsidiaries, which hold licenses, in order to determine whether such individual is suitable or should be licensed as a business associate of a Registered Corporation or a gaming licensee. Officers, directors and certain key employees of the Gaming Subsidiaries must file applications with the Nevada Gaming Authorities and may be required to be licensed or found suitable by the Nevada Gaming Authorities. Our officers, directors and key employees who are actively and directly involved in gaming activities of the Gaming Subsidiaries may be required to be licensed or found suitable by the Nevada Gaming Authorities. The Nevada Gaming Authorities may deny an application for licensing for any cause that they deem reasonable. A finding of suitability is comparable to licensing, and both require submission of detailed personal and financial information followed by a thorough investigation. The applicant for licensing or a finding of suitability must pay all the costs of the investigation. Changes in licensed positions must be reported to the Nevada Gaming Authorities and, in addition to their authority to deny an application for a finding of suitability or licensure, the Nevada Gaming Authorities have jurisdiction to disapprove a change in corporate position. If the Nevada Gaming Authorities were to find an officer, director or key employee unsuitable for licensing or unsuitable to continue to have a relationship with Station or the Gaming Subsidiaries, the companies involved would have to sever all relationships with such person. In addition, the Nevada Commission may require Station or the Gaming Subsidiaries to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file the appropriate applications. Determinations of suitability or questions pertaining to licensing are not subject to judicial review in Nevada. Station and the Gaming Subsidiaries are required to submit detailed financial and operating reports to the Nevada Commission. Substantially all material loans, leases, sales of securities and similar financing transactions by us and our Gaming Subsidiaries must be reported to or approved by the Nevada Commission and/or the Nevada Board. If it were determined that the Nevada Act was violated by a Gaming Subsidiary, the gaming licenses it holds could be limited, conditioned, suspended or revoked, subject to compliance with certain statutory and regulatory procedures. In addition, Station, the Gaming Subsidiaries and the persons involved could be subject to substantial fines for each separate violation of the Nevada Act at the discretion of the Nevada Commission. Further, a supervisor could be appointed by the Nevada Commission to operate Palace Station, Boulder Station, Texas Station, Sunset Station, Santa Fe Station, Red Rock, Green Valley Ranch, Aliante Station, Fiesta Rancho, Fiesta Henderson, Wild Wild West, Wildfire Rancho, Barley's, Gold Rush, Wildfire Boulder, The Greens, Lake Mead Casino and Wildfire Lanes and, under certain circumstances, earnings generated during the supervisor's appointment (except for the reasonable rental value of the premises) could be forfeited to the State of Nevada. Limitation, conditioning or suspension of the Gaming 25 Licenses of the Gaming Subsidiaries or the appointment of a supervisor could (and revocation of any Gaming License would) have a material adverse affect on our gaming operations. Any beneficial owner of our voting or non-voting securities, regardless of the number of shares owned, may be required to file an application, be investigated, and obtain a finding of suitability as a beneficial owner of our voting securities determined if the Nevada Commission has reason to believe that such ownership would otherwise be inconsistent with the declared policies of the State of Nevada. The applicant must pay all costs of investigation incurred by the Nevada Gaming Authorities in conducting any such investigation. The Nevada Act provides that persons who acquire beneficial ownership of more than 5% of the voting or non-voting securities of a Registered Corporation must report the acquisition to the Nevada Commission. The Nevada Act also requires that beneficial owners of more than 10% of the voting securities of a Registered Corporation must apply to the Nevada Commission for a finding of suitability within thirty days after the Chairman of the Nevada Board mails the written notice requiring such filing. An "institutional investor," as defined in the Nevada Commission's regulations, which acquires beneficial ownership of more than 10%, but not more than 25% of our voting securities may apply to the Nevada Commission for a waiver of such finding of suitability if such institutional investor holds the voting securities for investment purposes only. An institutional investor that has obtained a waiver may, in certain circumstances, hold up to 29% of our voting securities and maintain its waiver for a limited period of time. An institutional investor shall not be deemed to hold voting securities for investment purposes unless the voting securities were acquired and are held in the ordinary course of business as an institutional investor and not for the purpose of causing, directly or indirectly, the election of a majority of the members of our Board of Directors, any change in our corporate charter, bylaws, management policies or our operations, or any of our gaming affiliates, or any other action which the Nevada Commission finds to be inconsistent with holding our voting securities for investment purposes only. Activities which are not deemed to be inconsistent with holding voting securities for investment purposes only include: (i) voting on all matters voted on by stockholders; (ii) making financial and other inquiries of management of the type normally made by securities analysts for informational purposes and not to cause a change in our management, policies or operations; and (iii) such other activities as the Nevada Commission may determine to be consistent with such investment intent. If the beneficial holder of voting securities who must be found suitable is a corporation, partnership or trust, it must submit detailed business and financial information including a list of beneficial owners. The applicant is required to pay all costs of the investigation. Any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of suitability or a license within thirty days after being ordered to do so by the Nevada Commission or the Chairman of the Nevada Board may be found unsuitable. The same restrictions apply to a record owner if the record owner, after request, fails to identify the beneficial owner. Any stockholder who is found unsuitable and who holds, directly or indirectly, any beneficial ownership of the common stock of a Registered Corporation beyond such period of time as may be prescribed by the Nevada Commission may be guilty of a criminal offense. We are subject to disciplinary action if, after we receive notice that a person is unsuitable to be a stockholder or to have any other relationship with us or our Gaming Subsidiaries, we (i) pay that person any dividend or interest upon our voting securities, (ii) allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any voting right conferred through securities held by that person, (iii) pay remuneration in any form to that person for services rendered or otherwise, or (iv) fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require such unsuitable person to relinquish his voting securities including, if necessary, the immediate purchase of said voting securities for cash at fair market value. Additionally, the Clark County Board has the authority to approve all persons owning or controlling the stock of any corporation controlling a gaming licensee. The Nevada Commission may, in its discretion, require the holder of any debt security of a Registered Corporation to file applications, be investigated and be found suitable to own the debt security of a Registered Corporation if the Nevada Commission has reason to believe that such ownership would otherwise be inconsistent with the declared policies of the State of Nevada. If the Nevada Commission 26 determines that a person is unsuitable to own such security, then pursuant to the Nevada Act, the Registered Corporation can be sanctioned, including the loss of its approvals, if without the prior approval of the Nevada Commission, it: (i) pays to the unsuitable person any dividend, interest, or any distribution whatsoever; (ii) recognizes any voting right by such unsuitable person in connection with such securities; (iii) pays the unsuitable person remuneration in any form; or (iv) makes any payment to the unsuitable person by way of principal, redemption, conversion, exchange, liquidation or similar transaction. We are required to maintain a current stock ledger in Nevada, which may be examined by the Nevada Gaming Authorities at any time. If any securities are held in trust by an agent or by a nominee, the record holder may be required to disclose the identity of the beneficial owner to the Nevada Gaming Authorities. Failure to make such disclosure may be grounds for finding the record holder unsuitable. We are also required to render maximum assistance in determining the identity of the beneficial owner. The Nevada Commission has the power to require our stock certificates to bear a legend indicating that the securities are subject to the Nevada Act. However, to date, the Nevada Commission has not imposed such a requirement on us. We may not make a public offering of our securities without the prior approval of the Nevada Commission if the securities or proceeds therefrom are intended to be used to construct, acquire or finance gaming facilities in Nevada, or to retire or extend obligations incurred for such purposes. Changes in control of the Company through merger, consolidation, stock or asset acquisitions (including stock issuances in connection with restructuring transactions), management or consulting agreements, or any act or conduct by a person whereby such person obtains control, may not occur without the prior approval of the Nevada Commission. Entities seeking to acquire control of a Registered Corporation must satisfy the Nevada Board and the Nevada Commission that they meet a variety of stringent standards prior to assuming control of such Registered Corporation. The Nevada Commission may also require controlling stockholders, officers, directors and other persons having a material relationship or involvement with the entity proposing to acquire control, to be investigated and licensed as part of the approval process relating to the transaction. The Nevada legislature has declared that some corporate acquisitions opposed by management, repurchases of voting securities and corporate defense tactics affecting Nevada corporate gaming licensees, and Registered Corporations that are affiliated with those operations, may be injurious to stable and productive corporate gaming. The Nevada Commission has established a regulatory scheme to ameliorate the potentially adverse effects of these business practices upon Nevada's gaming industry and to further Nevada's policy to: (i) assure the financial stability of corporate gaming licensees and their affiliates; (ii) preserve the beneficial aspects of conducting business in the corporate form; and (iii) promote a neutral environment for the orderly governance of corporate affairs. Approvals are, in certain circumstances, required from the Nevada Commission before a Registered Corporation can make exceptional repurchases of voting securities above the current market price thereof and before a corporate acquisition opposed by management can be consummated. The Nevada Act also requires prior approval of a plan of re-capitalization proposed by the Registered Corporation's Board of Directors in response to a tender offer made directly to the Registered Corporation's stockholders for the purpose of acquiring control of the Registered Corporation. License fees and taxes, computed in various ways depending on the type of gaming or activity involved, are payable to the State of Nevada and to the counties and cities in which the Nevada licensee's respective operations are conducted. Depending upon the particular fee or tax involved, these fees and taxes are payable either monthly, quarterly or annually and are based upon either: (i) a percentage of the gross revenues received; (ii) the number of gaming devices operated; or (iii) the number of table games operated. A live entertainment tax is also paid by casino operations where entertainment is furnished in connection with admission charges, the serving or selling of food or refreshments or the selling of any 27 merchandise. Nevada licensees that hold a license as an operator of a slot route, or manufacturer's or distributor's license also pay certain fees and taxes to the State of Nevada. Any person who is licensed, required to be licensed, registered, required to be registered, or is under common control with such persons (collectively, "Licensees"), and who proposes to become involved in a gaming venture outside of Nevada, is required to deposit with the Nevada Board, and thereafter maintain, a revolving fund in the amount of $10,000 to pay the expenses of investigation by the Nevada Board of their participation in such foreign gaming. The revolving fund is subject to increase or decrease at the discretion of the Nevada Commission. Thereafter, licensees are required to comply with certain reporting requirements imposed by the Nevada Act. Licensees are also subject to disciplinary action by the Nevada Commission if they knowingly violate any laws of the foreign jurisdiction pertaining to the foreign gaming operation, fail to conduct the foreign gaming operation in accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required of Nevada gaming operations, engage in activities or enter into associations that are harmful to the State of Nevada or its ability to collect gaming taxes and fees, or employ, contract with or associate with a person in the foreign operation who has been denied a license or finding of suitability in Nevada on the grounds of unsuitability or whom a court in the state of Nevada has found guilty of cheating. The loss or restriction of our gaming licenses in Nevada would have a material adverse effect on our business and could require us to cease gaming operations in Nevada. Nevada Liquor Regulations The sale of alcoholic beverages at Palace Station, Wildfire Rancho and Santa Fe Station is subject to licensing control and regulation by the City of Las Vegas. Red Rock, Boulder Station and Wild Wild West are subject to liquor licensing control and regulation by the Clark County Board. Texas Station, Fiesta Rancho, and Aliante Station are subject to liquor licensing control and regulation by the City of North Las Vegas. Sunset Station, Green Valley Ranch, Fiesta Henderson, Barley's, Gold Rush, Wildfire Boulder, The Greens, Lake Mead Casino and Wildfire Lanes are subject to liquor licensing control and regulation by the City of Henderson. All liquor licenses are revocable and are not transferable. The agencies involved have full power to limit, condition, suspend or revoke any such license, and any such disciplinary action could (and revocation would) have a material adverse effect on the operations of the Gaming Subsidiaries. We are subject to Native American gaming regulations which could have an adverse effect on our business. The terms and conditions of management contracts and the operation of casinos and all gaming on land held in trust for Native American tribes in the United States are subject to the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act of 1988 (the "IGRA"), which is administered by the National Indian Gaming Commission (the "NIGC") and the gaming regulatory agencies of tribal governments. The IGRA is subject to interpretation by the NIGC and may be subject to judicial and legislative clarification or amendment. The IGRA established three separate classes of tribal gaming-Class I, Class II and Class III. Class I gaming includes all traditional or social games solely for prizes of minimal value played by a tribe in connection with celebrations or ceremonies. Class II gaming includes games such as bingo, pull-tabs, punchboards, instant bingo and non-banked card games (those that are not played against the house), such as poker. Class III gaming is casino-style gaming and includes banked table games such as blackjack, craps and roulette, and gaming machines such as slots, video poker, lotteries and pari-mutuel wagering. Thunder Valley may provide Class II gaming and, as limited by the tribal-state compact, Class III gaming. The IGRA requires NIGC approval of management contracts for Class II and Class III gaming as well as the review of all agreements collateral to the management contracts. The management agreement relating to our management of the casino owned by the UAIC was approved by the NIGC with respect to Thunder Valley in December 2002. The NIGC will not approve a management contract if a director or a 10% shareholder of the management company: (i) is an elected member of the governing body of the Native American tribe which is the party to the management contract; (ii) has been or subsequently is 28 convicted of a felony or gaming offense; (iii) has knowingly and willfully provided materially important false information to the NIGC or the tribe; (iv) has refused to respond to questions from the NIGC; or (v) is a person whose prior history, reputation and associations pose a threat to the public interest or to effective gaming regulation and control, or create or enhance the chance of unsuitable activities in gaming or the business and financial arrangements incidental thereto. In addition, the NIGC will not approve a management contract if the management company or any of its agents have attempted to unduly influence any decision or process of tribal government relating to gaming, or if the management company has materially breached the terms of the management contract or the tribe's gaming ordinance or resolution, or a trustee, exercising the skill and due diligence that a trustee is commonly held to, would not approve the management contract. A management contract can be approved only after the NIGC determines that the contract provides, among other things, for: (i) adequate accounting procedures and verifiable financial reports, which must be furnished to the tribe; (ii) tribal access to the daily operations of the gaming enterprise, including the right to verify daily gross revenues and income; (iii) minimum guaranteed payments to the tribe, which must have priority over the retirement of development and construction costs; (iv) a ceiling on the repayment of such development and construction costs and (v) a contract term not exceeding five years and a management fee not exceeding 30% of net revenues (as determined by the NIGC); provided that the NIGC may approve up to a seven year term and a management fee not to exceed 40% of net revenues if the NIGC is satisfied that the capital investment required, and the income projections for the particular gaming activity require the larger fee and longer term. There is no periodic or ongoing review of approved contracts by the NIGC. The only post-approval action that could result in possible modification or cancellation of a contract would be as the result of an enforcement action taken by the NIGC based on a violation of the law or an issue affecting suitability. The IGRA prohibits all forms of Class III gaming unless the tribe has entered into a written agreement with the state that specifically authorizes the types of Class III gaming the tribe may offer (a "tribal-state compact"). These tribal-state compacts provide, among other things, the manner and extent to which each state will conduct background investigations and certify the suitability of the manager, its officers, directors, and key employees to conduct gaming on Native American lands. We have been licensed by the UAIC's tribal gaming agency to manage Thunder Valley. Title 25, Section 81 of the United States Code states that "no agreement shall be made by any person with any tribe of Indians, or individual Indians not citizens of the United States, for the payment or delivery of any money or other thing of value... in consideration of services for said Indians relative to their lands... unless such contract or agreement be executed and approved" by the Secretary or his or her designee. An agreement or contract for services relative to Native American lands which fails to conform with the requirements of Section 81 is void and unenforceable. All money or other things of value paid to any person by any Native American or tribe for or on his or their behalf, on account of such services, in excess of any amount approved by the Secretary or his or her authorized representative will be subject to forfeiture. We believe that we have complied with the requirements of Section 81 with respect to our management contract for Thunder Valley and intend to comply with Section 81 with respect to any other contract to manage casinos located on Native American land in the United States. Native American tribes are sovereign nations with their own governmental systems, which have primary regulatory authority over gaming on land within the tribes' jurisdiction. Therefore, persons engaged in gaming activities, including Station, are subject to the provisions of tribal ordinances and regulations on gaming. These ordinances are subject to review by the NIGC under certain standards established by the IGRA. The NIGC may determine that some or all of the ordinances require amendment, and those additional requirements, including additional licensing requirements, may be imposed on us. We have received no such notification regarding Thunder Valley. The possessions of valid licenses from the UAIC are ongoing conditions of our management agreement with that tribe. Several bills have been introduced in Congress that would amend the IGRA. While there have been a number of technical amendments to the IGRA, to date there have been no material changes. Any 29 amendment of the IGRA could change the governmental structure and requirements within which Thunder Valley could conduct gaming, and may have an adverse effect on our results of operations or impose additional regulatory or operational burdens. California Gaming Regulations In California, licensing and registration requirements for tribal financing sources are governed by the compact, amended compact and by regulations adopted by the California Gambling Control Commission and the Tribal Gaming Agency (the "TGA"). The UAIC's compact was set to expire on December 31, 2020. The Amended Compact extended the term until December 31, 2030. The UAIC's compact and amended compact require that any person who directly or indirectly extend financing to the UAIC's gaming facility or gaming operation must be licensed as a "financial source" by the TGA. However, as permitted by the compact and amended compact, the TGA has the discretion to exempt federally and state regulated banks, savings and loan associations and other federal and state regulated lending institutions, entities identified by Regulation CGCC-2, subdivision (f) of the California Gambling Control Commission, as well as persons who hold less than 10% of notes issued by the UAIC or a related entity. The Amended Compact further specifies that entities identified by Regulation CGCC-2, subdivision (h) of the California Gambling Control Commission, and persons or entities whose sole connection with extending financing to the UAIC is to provide loan brokerage or debt servicing for a financial source at no cost to the UAIC or the Gaming Operation are not considered financial sources. For an applicant who is a non-exempted business entity, these licensing provisions also apply to the entity's officers, directors, principal management employees, owners (if an unincorporated entity), partners and greater than 10% shareholders. Under the compact and amended compact, a permanent license cannot be issued unless the TGA has conducted an investigation as to the suitability of the applicant. Any application for a gaming license may be denied, and any license issued may be revoked, if the TGA determines the applicant to be unsuitable or otherwise unqualified for a gaming license. Each license is subject to review for compliance at least every two years. Prior to receiving a license, an applicant must apply to the California Gambling Control Commission for a determination of suitability. The California Department of Justice, Division of Gambling Control will then conduct an investigation of the applicant following the guidelines set forth in the California Gambling Control Act and will provide its suitability recommendation to the California Gambling Control Commission. If the TGA receives notice that the Commission has determined that a person is unsuitable, the compact requires that the TGA revoke any license it has issued to such person. The compact and amended compact state that any agreement between the UAIC and a financial source terminates upon revocation or non-renewal of the financial source's license because of a determination of unsuitability by the California Gambling Control Commission. Upon such a termination, the UAIC's only liability is for a bona fide repayment of all outstanding sums (exclusive of interest) owed as of the termination date, exclusive of unpaid accrued interest. Further, the UAIC is not permitted to enter into, or continue to make payments under, any financing agreement with anyone whose application to the California Gambling Control Commission for a determination of suitability has been denied or has expired without renewal. Station California, LLC, our wholly owned subsidiary, has been found suitable as a Gaming Resource Supplier and Financial Source by the California Gambling Control Commission. This finding of suitability is subject to review for compliance annually. General Gaming Regulations in Other Jurisdictions If we become involved in gaming operations in any other jurisdictions, such gaming operations will subject us and certain of our officers, directors, key employees, stockholders and other affiliates ("Regulated Persons") to strict legal and regulatory requirements, including mandatory licensing and 30 approval requirements, suitability requirements, and ongoing regulatory oversight with respect to such gaming operations. Such legal and regulatory requirements and oversight will be administered and exercised by the relevant regulatory agency or agencies in each jurisdiction (the "Regulatory Authorities"). We and the Regulated Persons will need to satisfy the licensing, approval and suitability requirements of each jurisdiction in which we seek to become involved in gaming operations. These requirements vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. In general, the procedures for gaming licensing, approval and finding of suitability require Station and each Regulated Person to submit detailed personal history information and financial information to demonstrate that the proposed gaming operation has adequate financial resources generated from suitable sources and adequate procedures to comply with the operating controls and requirements imposed by law and regulation in each jurisdiction, followed by a thorough investigation by such Regulatory Authorities. In general, Station and each Regulated Person must pay the costs of such investigation. An application for any gaming license, approval or finding of suitability may be denied for any cause that the Regulatory Authorities deem reasonable. Once obtained, licenses and approvals may be subject to periodic renewal and generally are not transferable. The Regulatory Authorities may at any time revoke, suspend, condition, limit or restrict a license, approval or finding of suitability for any cause that they deem reasonable. Fines for violations may be levied against the holder of a license or approval and in certain jurisdictions, gaming operation revenues can be forfeited to the state under certain circumstances. There can be no assurance that we will obtain all of the necessary licenses, approvals and findings of suitability or that our officers, directors, key employees, other affiliates and certain other stockholders will satisfy the suitability requirements in one or more jurisdictions, or that such licenses, approvals and findings of suitability, if obtained, will not be revoked, limited, suspended or not renewed in the future. Failure by us to obtain, or the loss or suspension of, any necessary licenses, approval or findings of suitability would prevent us from conducting gaming operations in such jurisdiction and possibly in other jurisdictions, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be required to submit detailed financial and operating reports to Regulatory Authorities. Factors affecting tax laws could have an adverse effect on our business. The gaming industry represents a significant source of tax revenue, particularly to the State of Nevada and its counties and municipalities. From time to time, various state and federal legislators and officials have proposed changes in tax law, or in the administration of such law, affecting the gaming industry. The Nevada Legislature meets every two years and when special sessions are called by the Governor. The Nevada Legislature is not currently in session and is next scheduled to meet in early 2011. An increase in the gaming tax could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 