ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Aggressive pricing by existing competitors and the entrance of new competitors could drive down the Company’s profits and slow its growth. Although the Company currently has limited competition in its core Sharps Disposal By Mail Systems® business, it is possible that other companies may enter into or expand into the business. Potential competitors could include large medical waste organizations, solid waste companies or reverse distributors. These potential competitors could have greater levels of capital, broader infrastructure and significantly more personnel. The loss of the Company’s senior executives could affect the Company’s ability to manage the business profitability. Sharps’ growth and development to date has been largely dependent on the active participation and leadership of its senior management team consisting of the Company’s Chairman and CEO, Executive VP & CFO, Sr. VP of Sales and Sr. VP of Operations. The Company believes that the continued success of the business is largely dependent upon the continued 6 employment of the senior management team and has, therefore, (i) entered into individual employment agreements with key personnel and (ii) granted equity-based stock compensation to senior management members in order to provide incentive for their continued employment with the Company. The unplanned loss of one or more of the senior management team could disrupt and adversely impact the Company’s ability to execute its business plan. The lack of customer long-term volume commitments could adversely affect the Company’s profits and future growth. Although the Company does enter into exclusive contracts with the majority of its enterprise customers and including volume purchase incentives, these contracts do not have provisions for firm long-term volume commitments. In general, customer purchase orders may be canceled and order volume levels can be changed or delayed with limited or no penalties. Sharps cannot assure the replacement of canceled, delayed or reduced purchase orders which could significantly affect the financial performance of the Company. The Company is subject to federal, state and local laws regarding the operation of its incinerator and autoclaving facility and existing or future regulations may restrict the Company’s operations, increase its costs of operations or require the Company to make additional capital expenditures. The Company’s business utilizes an incinerator facility for the proper disposal of sharps and pharmaceutical waste. The Company’s owned treatment facility is located in Carthage, Texas (Panola County). Prior to the purchase of the facility in January 2008, the Company operated the treatment facility since 1999. The Company believes it operates and maintains the facility in compliance with all federal, state and local laws and/or any other regulatory agency involving solid waste disposal. The cost of such compliance for the year ended June 30, 2009 was $9,225. Although the Company has an agreement with a secondary burn facility to provide services in the event the incinerator is unavailable, any disruption in the availability of a disposal facility or increased governmental regulation could have an adverse impact on the Company. The Company can make no assurances that no such disruption or burdensome regulation will occur in the future. The Company believes the facility is in compliance with all applicable federal, state, local and/or regulatory agency requirements, air pollution and TCEQ (“Texas Commission on Environmental Quality”) regulations. See Change in Government Regulation below which discusses the future requirement to install additional equipment to the Company’s incinerator (estimated to range from $1.0 to $2.5 million) and the Company’s installation of autoclave technology during fiscal year 2009 which is not impacted by the change in Government regulations. In February 2009, the Company installed a state-of-the-art autoclave system and technology capable of treating up to seven tons per day of medical waste at the same facility. Autoclaving is a process that treats medical waste with steam at high temperature and pressure to kill pathogens. An autoclave is environmentally cleaner and is a less costly method of treating most medical waste versus traditional incineration. The addition of the autoclave is not impacted by the amended EPA Clean Air Act. The Company is subject to federal, state and local laws and existing or future regulations may restrict the Company’s operations, and increase its costs of operations in connection with handling and transportation of mailed sharps. Sharps is required to operate within guidelines established by federal, state, and/or local regulatory agencies. Such guidelines have been established to promote occupational safety and health standards and certain standards have been established in connection with the handling, transportation and disposal of certain types of medical and solid wastes, including mailed sharps. Sharps believes that it is currently in compliance in all material respects with all applicable laws and regulations governing its business. However, in the event additional guidelines are established to more specifically control the business of Sharps, including the environmental services subsidiary, additional expenditures may be required in order for Sharps to be in compliance with such changing regulations. Furthermore, any material relaxation of any existing regulatory requirements governing the transportation and disposal of medical sharps products could result in a reduced demand for Sharps’ products and services and could have a material adverse effect on Sharps’ revenues and financial condition. The scope and duration of existing and future regulations affecting the medical and solid waste disposal industry cannot be anticipated and are subject to change due to political and economic pressures. In November of 2005 and September of 2009, the EPA amended the Clean Air Act which will affect the operations of the incineration facility located in Carthage, Texas. The regulation modifies the emission limits and monitoring procedures required to operate an incineration facility. The new rules will necessitate changes to the Company’s owned incinerator and 7 pollution control equipment at the facility or require installation of an alternative treatment method to ensure compliance. Such change would require the Company to incur significant capital expenditures in order to meet the requirements of the regulations. The regulation allows a minimum period of three years and a maximum of five years to comply after the date the final rule was published. The Company has studied the current amended EPA Clean Air Act and its options, and decided in the interim to move forward with the process of adding alternative technology, autoclaving, which meets the EPA Clean Air Act requirements (see above), for medical waste disposal which became fully operational in February 2009 at its current facility in Carthage, Texas. Autoclaving is a process that treats regulated waste with steam at high temperature and pressure to kill pathogens. Combining the autoclaving with a shredding or grinder process allows the waste to be disposed in a landfill operation. The Company believes autoclaving is environmentally cleaner and a less costly method of treating medical waste than incineration. Due to its continued growth, the Company has decided that it will incur additional capital expenditures needed in order to meet the new regulations. The additional capital expenditures are estimated to range from approximately $1.0 to approximately $2.5 million and would increase its permitted incineration capacity from eleven tons per day to forty tons per day (limited to four tons per day, or 10% of permitted capacity, of medical waste treatment). The possibility of postal work interruptions would adversely affect the disposal element of the Company’s business. Sharps currently transports (from the patient or user to the Company’s treatment facility) the majority of its disposal products using the USPS, therefore, any long-term interruption in USPS delivery services would disrupt the disposal element of the Company’s business. Postal delivery interruptions are rare. Additionally, since USPS employees are federal employees, such employees may be prohibited from engaging in or continuing a postal work stoppage, although there can be no assurance that such work stoppage can be avoided. As noted above, the Company entered into an arrangement with UPS whereby UPS transports the Company’s Sharps Disposal by Mail System® products from the non-healthcare facility end user to the Company’s owned treatment facility. The Company began selling a UPS product to select markets in fiscal year 2007. Additionally, the Company is studying the feasibility of the use of a consolidator to transport the Sharps Disposal By Mail System® products from the patient or user to the Company’s treatment facility. The Company’s stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, price volatility and low trading volume. The Company’s common stock has been listed on the The NASDAQ Capital Market (“NASDAQ”) under the symbol “SMED” since May 6, 2009. The daily trading volumes for the Company’s common stock are, and may continue to be relatively small compared to many other publicly traded securities. Since trading on the NASDAQ, the Company’s average daily trading volume has been approximately 70,000 shares. It may be difficult for you to sell your shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices, and the price of the Company’s common stock may, therefore, be volatile. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As of the date of this report, the Company did not have any unresolved staff comments. 