ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We may be unable to manage our growth effectively. We continue to experience core revenue growth for fiscal year 2013, as we saw the benefits of our marketing activities in our target markets, Pharmaceutical and Professional. Core revenue increased more than 7% to $21.5 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2013 driven by targeted telemarketing initiatives and promotional activities in the professional market and continued roll-out of new patient support programs in the pharmaceutical market. Though the Retail market was down about 4% due to inconsistent timing of flu shot related orders compared to the prior year, we saw growth of nearly 21% in the Assisted Living market as providers continue to accommodate the aging population. The increase in revenue and execution of our growth strategies has placed and will continue to place significant demands on our financial, operational and management resources. In order to continue our growth, we may need, at some point, to add operations, administrative and other personnel, and may need to make additional investments in the infrastructure and systems. There can be no assurance that we will be able to find and train qualified personnel, do so on a timely basis, or expand our operations and systems to the extent, and in the time, required. The loss of the Company’s senior executives could affect the Company’s ability to manage the business profitability. Our growth and development to date has been largely dependent on the active participation and leadership of its senior management team consisting of the Company’s CEO and President, Senior Vice President of Sales, Vice President and CFO, Vice President of Operations and Vice President of Quality Assurance. We believe that the continued success of the business is largely dependent upon the continued employment of the senior management team and has, therefore, (i) entered into individual employment arrangements with key personnel and (ii) approved the Executive Officer Incentive Compensation Plan for participation by certain senior management members in order to provide an incentive for their continued employment with the Company. The unplanned loss of one or more members of the senior management team and our inability to hire key employees could disrupt and adversely impact the Company’s ability to execute its business plan. The Board of Directors oversees CEO and senior management succession planning. The process focuses on building management depth, considers continuity and stability within the Company, and responds to Sharps’ evolving needs and changing circumstances. The Board approves continuity plans for the CEO and senior management succession planning to enable the Board to respond to planned or unexpected vacancies in key positions. The Board considers optimizing the ongoing safe and sound operation of the Company and minimizing any potential disruption or loss of continuity to our business and operations as it evaluates the plan. Our business is dependent on a small number of customers. To the extent we are not successful in winning additional business mandates from our government and commercial customers or attracting new customers, our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. We are dependent on a small group of customers. In addition, there is a concentration of credit risk associated with accounts receivable arising from sales to our major customers. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2013, one customer represented approximately 22% of revenues. This customer represented approximately 25%, or $638 thousand, of the total accounts receivable balance at June 30, 2012. To the extent these significant customers are delinquent or delayed in paying or we are not successful in obtaining consistent and additional business from our existing and new customers, our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. Aggressive pricing by existing competitors and the entrance of new competitors could drive down the Company’s profits and slow its growth. There are several competitors who offer similar or identical products and services that facilitate the disposal of smaller quantities of medical waste. There are also a number of companies that focus specifically on the marketing of products and services which facilitate disposal through transport by the USPS (similar to the Company’s products). These companies include (i) smaller private companies or (ii) divisions of larger companies. Additionally, we do compete, in certain markets, with Stericycle, the largest medical waste company in the country, which focuses primarily on a pick-up service business model. As Sharps continues to grow and increase awareness of the proper disposal of syringes and unused medications, it could face additional and possibly significant competition. As a result, we could experience increased pricing pressures that could reduce our margins. In addition, as we expand our business into other markets, the number, type and size of our competitors may expand. Many of these potential competitors may have greater financial and operational resources, flexibility to reduce prices and other competitive advantages that could adversely impact our current competitive position. The lack of customer long-term volume commitments could adversely affect the Company’s profits and future growth. Although we enter into exclusive contracts with the majority of our enterprise customers, these contracts do not have provisions for firm long-term volume commitments. In general, customer purchase orders may be canceled and order volume levels can be changed or delayed with limited or no penalties. Canceled, delayed or reduced purchase orders could significantly affect our financial performance. The Company is subject to extensive and costly federal, state and local laws and existing or future regulations may restrict the Company’s operations, increase our costs of operations and subject us to additional liability. We are subject to extensive federal, state, and/or local laws, rules and regulations. We are required to obtain permits, authorizations, approvals, certificates and other types of governmental permission from the EPA, Texas and the local governments in Carthage, Texas with respect to our facilities. 11 Such laws, rules and regulations have been established to promote occupational safety and health standards and certain standards have been established in connection with the handling, transportation and disposal of certain types of medical and solid wastes, including transported medical waste. We believe that we are currently in compliance in all material respects with all applicable laws and regulations governing our business, including the permits and authorizations for our incinerator facility. Our estimated annual costs of complying with these laws, regulations and guidelines iscurrently less than $200,000 per year. In the event additional laws, rules or regulations are adopted which affect our business, additional expenditures may be required in order for us to be in compliance with such changing laws, rules and regulations. Furthermore, any material relaxation of any existing regulatory requirements governing the transportation and disposal of medical waste could result in a reduced demand for our products and services and could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition. The scope and duration of existing and future regulations affecting the medical and solid waste disposal industry cannot be anticipated and are subject to change. In November 2005 and September 2009, the EPA and the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality promulgated new regulations under the Clean Air Act and associated state statutes which affect the incineration portion of our operation of the treatment facility located in Carthage, Texas. These regulations modify the emission limits and monitoring procedures required to operate an incineration facility. These new regulations and the recent receipt of a Title V permit required additional emissions-related monitoring and compliance. Such changes required us to incur capital expenditures, which are reflected in cash flows from investing activities in the Company’s consolidated statement of cash flows, in order to meet the requirements of the new regulations. We have received conditional acceptance of our compliance efforts pending additional activities that we expect to complete by the end of September 2013 with additional capital costs of less than $100,000. There can be no assurance that once we incur the capital expenditures and complete the additional activities that the facility will comply with the new regulations. An inability to comply with the regulations could disrupt incinerator operations at the treatment facility and could have a material adverse effect on our future operations. The inability of the Company to operate its treatment facility would adversely affect its operations. Our business utilizes a treatment facility for the proper disposal or treatment of medical waste, used health care materials and unused pharmaceuticals. Our owned facility has both incineration and autoclave technologies in Carthage, Texas (Panola County). Prior to the purchase of the facility in January 2008, we operated the facility since 1999 under a lease arrangement. Sharps’ believes it operates and maintains the facility in compliance in all material respects with all federal, state and local laws and/or any other regulatory agency requirements involving treatment and disposal and the operation of the incinerator and autoclave facility. The failure to maintain the permits for the treatment facility or unfavorable conditions contained in the permits or new regulations could substantially impair our operations and reduce our revenues. During fiscal year 2013, the Company, under an agreement with Daniels Sharpsmart, began utilizing four Daniels Sharpsmart treatment facilities located across the country for the proper treatment of medical waste and used healthcare materials generated by our customers. This will not only reduce the Company’s return transportation costs but also provide back-up treatment facility capabilities in the event of disruption at the Company’s treatment facility in Carthage, Texas. Any disruption in the availability of a disposal or treatment facility, whether as a result of action taken by governmental authorities, natural disasters or otherwise, would have an adverse effect on our operations and results of operations. The handling and disposal or treatment of regulated waste carries with it the risk of personal injury to employees and others. Our business requires us to handle materials that may be infectious or hazardous to life and property in other ways. Although our products and procedures are designed to minimize exposure to these materials, the possibility of accidents, leaks, spills, and acts of God always exists. Human beings, animals or property could be injured, sickened or damaged by exposure to regulated waste. This in turn could result in lawsuits in which we are found liable for such injuries, and substantial damages could be awarded against us. While we carry liability insurance intended to cover these contingencies, particular instances may occur that are not insured against or that are inadequately insured against. An uninsured or underinsured loss could be substantial and could impair our profitability and reduce our liquidity. An inability to win additional government contracts could have a material adverse effect on our operations and adversely affect our future revenue. A material amount of our revenues were generated through a contract with a major U.S. government agency for the period from March 2009 through the contract’s termination in January 2012 totaling $33 million. Subsequent to the contract’s termination, our Company-wide revenues have experienced a decrease compared to prior periods. Although the Company is attempting to secure large additional U.S. Government contracts, including programs with the Veterans Administration, there can be no assurances that such efforts will be successful. All contracts with, or subcontracts involving, the federal government are terminable, or subject to renegotiation, by the applicable governmental agency on 30 days’ notice, at the option of the governmental agency. If a material contract is terminated or renegotiated in a manner that is materially adverse to us, our revenues and future operations could be materially adversely affected. As a government contractor, we are subject to extensive government regulation, and our failure to comply with applicable regulations could subject us to penalties that may restrict our ability to conduct our business. Governmental contracts or subcontracts involving governmental facilities are often subject to specific procurement regulations, contract provisions and a variety of other requirements relating to the formation, administration, performance and accounting of these contracts. Many of these contracts include express or implied certifications of compliance with applicable regulations and contractual provisions. If we fail to comply with any regulations, requirements or statutes, our existing governmental contracts or subcontracts involving governmental facilities could be terminated or we could be suspended from government contracting or subcontracting. If one or more of our governmental contracts or subcontracts are terminated for any reason, or if we are suspended or debarred from government work, we could suffer a significant reduction in expected revenues and profits. Furthermore, as a result of our governmental contracts or subcontracts involving governmental facilities, claims for civil or criminal fraud may be brought by the government for violations of these regulations, requirements or statutes. 12 The possibility of postal work interruptions and restrictions on shipping through the mail would adversely affect the disposal or treatment element of the Company’s business and have an adverse effect on our operations, results of operations and financial condition. We currently transport (from the patient or user to the Company’s facility) the majority of our solution offerings using USPS; therefore, any long-term interruption in USPS delivery services would disrupt the return transportation and treatment element of our business. Postal delivery interruptions are rare. Additionally, since USPS employees are federal employees, such employees may be prohibited from engaging in or continuing a postal work stoppage, although there can be no assurance that such work stoppage can be avoided. As noted above, we entered into an arrangement with UPS whereby UPS transports our TakeAway Recovery System™ line of solution offerings. The ability to ship items, whether through the USPS or UPS, is regulated by the government and related agencies. Any change in regulation restricting the shipping of medical waste, used healthcare materials or unused or expired dispensed pharmaceuticals through these channels would be detrimental to our ability to conduct operations. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any disruption in the transportation of products would have an adverse effect on our operations, results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, low trading volume and price volatility. Our common stock has been listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market (“NASDAQ”) under the symbol “SMED” since May 6, 2009. The daily trading volumes for our common stock are, and may continue to be, relatively small compared to many other publicly traded securities. Since trading on the NASDAQ, our average daily trading volume has been approximately 69,000 shares. It may be difficult for you to sell your shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices, and the price of our common stock may, therefore, be volatile. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As of the date of this report, we do not have any unresolved staff comments. 