ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Operating History Sharps has been profitable in fiscal years 2006 through 2008. Prior to fiscal year 2006, the Company had a history of operating losses. The future success of Sharps is dependent upon many factors, including environmental regulation, continued acceptability of its products and services, continuity of its customer agreements, successful completion of its product development activities and the identification and penetration of additional markets for its products and services. Management believes that the Company’s current financial resources, including cash on hand and its line of credit with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., will be sufficient to fund operations through June 30, 2009. 5 Dependence on Key Management Personnel Sharps’ growth and development to date has been largely dependent on the active participation and leadership of its senior management team. The Company believes that the continued success of the business is dependent upon the continued employment of the senior management team and has therefore entered into individual employment agreements with the senior management team in order to provide incentive for their continued employment with the Company. Customer Relationships Sharps believes it’s relationships with its customers is very good as a result of its long standing reputation and successful performance in the delivery of value-added products. Sharps generally has no firm long-term volume commitments from its customers but does have contractual relationships with the majority of its customers. Sharps has experienced fluctuations in order levels in many of its markets which may continue until the Company obtains critical mass and as the awareness of the proper disposal of medical sharps continues to increase. In general, customer purchase orders may be canceled and order volume levels can be changed or delayed with limited or no penalties. Sharps cannot assure the replacement of canceled, delayed or reduced purchase orders with new business. Moreover, Sharps’ financial condition and results of operations will depend in significant part upon the Company’s ability to obtain orders from new customers, the increased recognition by its prospective customers of the proper disposal of sharps and continued legislation mandating the proper disposal of sharps. Disposal Facility The Company’s business utilizes an incinerator facility for the proper disposal of sharps waste. The Company’s owned treatment facility is located in Carthage, Texas (Panola County). Prior to the purchase of the facility in January 2008, the Company operated the treatment facility since 1999. The Company believes it operates and maintains the facility in compliance with all federal, state and local laws and/or any other regulatory agency involving solid waste disposal. The cost of such compliance for the year ended June 30, 2008 was $9,225. Although the Company entered into an agreement with a secondary burn facility to provide services in the event the incinerator is unavailable, any disruption in the availability of a disposal facility or increased governmental regulation may have an adverse impact on the Company. The Company can make no assurances that no such disruption or burdensome regulation will occur in the future. The Company believes the facility is in compliance with all applicable federal, state, local and/or regulatory agency requirements, air pollution and TCEQ (“Texas Commission on Environmental Quality”) regulations. See change in Government Regulation below. During fiscal 2008, the Company began the process of adding alternative autoclave technology for medical waste disposal with plans to be fully operational by December 31, 2008 depending upon the timing of the completion of required state permitting. Autoclaving is a process that treats regulated waste with steam at high temperature and pressure to kill pathogens. Combining the autoclaving with a shredding or grinder process allows the waste to be disposed in a landfill operation. The Company believes autoclaving is environmentally cleaner and a less costly method of treating medical waste than incineration. The autoclaving technology is planned to be used in addition to incineration and is estimated to cost approximately $400,000. Governmental Regulation Operations and Incinerator Sharps is required to operate within guidelines established by federal, state, and/or local regulatory agencies. Such guidelines have been established to promote occupational safety and health standards and certain standards have been established in connection with the handling, transportation and disposal of certain types of medical and solid wastes, including mailed sharps. Sharps believes that it is currently in compliance in all material respects with all applicable laws and regulations governing its business. However, in the event additional guidelines are established to more specifically control the business of Sharps, including the environmental services subsidiary, additional expenditures may be required in order for Sharps to be in compliance with such changing regulations. Furthermore, any material relaxation of any existing regulatory requirements governing the transportation and disposal of medical sharps products could result in a reduced demand for Sharps’ products and services and could have a material adverse effect on Sharps’ revenues and financial condition. The scope and duration of existing and future regulations affecting the medical and solid waste disposal industry cannot be anticipated and are subject to change due to political and economic pressures. 6 In November 2005, the EPA amended the Clean Air Act which will affect the operations of the leased incineration facility located in Carthage, Texas. The regulation modifies the emission limits and monitoring procedures required to operate an incineration facility. The new rules will necessitate changes to the Company’s owned incinerator and pollution control equipment at the facility or require installation of an alternative treatment method to ensure compliance. Such change would require the Company to incur significant capital expenditures in order to meet the requirements of the regulations. The regulation allows a minimum period of three years and a maximum of five years to comply after the date the final rule was published. The Company has studied the amended EPA Clean Air Act and its options, and has decided in the interim to move forward with the process of adding alternative technology, autoclaving, for medical waste disposal with plans to be fully operational by December 31, 2008 at its current facility in Carthage, Texas. Autoclaving is a process that treats regulated waste with steam at high temperature and pressure to kill pathogens. Combining the autoclaving with a shredding or grinder process allows the waste to be disposed in a landfill operation. The Company believes autoclaving is environmentally cleaner and a less costly method of treating medical waste than incineration. The Company has not yet decided if and when it will incur the additional capital expenditures needed in order to meet the new regulations. The additional capital expenditures are estimated at approximately $1.4 million and would increase its permitted incineration capacity from eleven (11) tons per day to thirty (30) tons per day. Should the Company incur such additional capital expenditures, it would do so subsequent to the development and launching of a business plan designed to generate significant incremental and new revenue stream from third party medical waste services. See Disposal Facility section above for further information regarding the purchase of the Carthage, Texas facility and addition of autoclave technology. Proper Disposal of Medical Sharps The first significant regulatory development occurred in December 2004 with the improved guidance issued by the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) regarding the safe disposal of medical sharps (needles, syringes and lancets). This new guidance is a result of disposal problems created by the estimated 2 billion syringes discarded annually by legal self-injectors of medicines in homes and non-healthcare commercial facilities. Until December 2004, the EPA guidance has instructed consumers to place used sharps in a household container and to place the container in the household garbage. New guidance posted on the EPA website reflects information about alternative disposal methods including mail-back programs. The improved guidance issued by the EPA is a significant step toward the removal of needles, syringes and other sharps from the solid waste stream, consistent with the current practice in healthcare facilities. The Company’s products and services, which are included in the EPA list of recommended solutions, are designed to improve safety, efficiency and patient concerns related to the proper disposal of medical sharps. The next regulatory development was the enactment of California Senate Bill 1362, “The Safe Needle Disposal Act of 2004.” This legislation authorizes California agencies to expand the scope of their existing household hazardous waste plans to provide for the safe disposal of medical sharps including hypodermic needles and syringes. Authorized disposal programs include the mail-back programs currently marketed by the Company. In July 2006, the State of California passed Senate Bill 1305 (“SB 1305”), an amendment to The Medical Waste Management Act. The new law requires the proper disposal of home-generated sharps waste (syringes, needles, lancets, etc.) and acknowledges mail-back programs as a convenient method for the collection and destruction of home-generated sharps. Effective January 1, 2007 (with enforcement beginning September 1, 2008), SB 1305 addresses the need to meet the changing demands of healthcare provided in alternate sites that currently allow hundreds of millions of home-generated sharps waste to be disposed in solid waste and recycling containers. The new law is designed to ensure appropriate disposal of sharps waste necessary to protect the general public and workers from potential exposure to contagious diseases and health and safety risks. Also in July 2006, The Massachusetts Legislature enacted Senate Bill 2569 which requires the Massachusetts department of public health, in conjunction with other relevant state and local agencies and government departments, to design, establish and implement a program for the collection and disposal of non-commercially generated, spent hypodermic needles and lancets. Recommended disposal methods include mail-back products approved by the U.S. Postal Service such as the Sharps Disposal By Mail Systems®. The Massachusetts legislation addresses the need for proper disposal of used syringes, needles and lancets outside of the traditional healthcare setting. In addition to California and Massachusetts, many other states are considering similar legislation. 7 In August 2007, the U.S. House of Representatives and U.S. Senate introduced bills 3251 and 1909, respectively, which would provide for Medicare reimbursement, under part D, for the safe and effective disposal of used needles and syringes through a sharps-by-mail or similar program. This legislation proposes Medicare coverage for the safe needle disposal for approximately 1.3 million insulin-dependent diabetic beneficiaries and is intended to reduce the number of accidental injuries, infections and subsequent costs associated with the improper disposal of approximately 4 million needles generated daily by Medicare covered diabetics. The Company’s Sharps Disposal By Mail Systems® is an example of the cost-effective and easy-to-use solution recommended in the legislation. Postal Work Interruptions Sharps currently transports its disposal products using the USPS, therefore, any interruption in day-to-day USPS delivery services could have a material adverse effect on Sharps’ revenues and financial condition. Postal delivery interruptions are rare and unpredictable. However, since USPS employees are federal employees, such employees may be prohibited from engaging in or continuing a postal work stoppage, although there can be no assurance that such work stoppage can be avoided. As noted above, the Company entered into an arrangement with UPS whereby UPS agreed to transport the Company’s Sharps Disposal by Mail System® products from the non-healthcare facility end user to the Company’s owned treatment facility. The Company began selling a UPS product to select customers in fiscal year 2007. Management believes the risk of dependence on the USPS is mitigated by the new arrangement with UPS and its long standing relationship with the USPS. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As of the date of this report, the Company did not have any unresolved staff comments. ITEM 