ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We may be unable to manage our growth effectively. We have experienced significant growth, with revenues increasing more than 58% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 from the prior fiscal year and 93% from fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 to fiscal year ended June 30, 2010. This growth has placed and will continue to place significant demands on our financial, operational and management resources. In order to continue our growth, we may need to add operations, administrative and other personnel, and may need to make additional investments in the infrastructure and systems. There can be no assurance that we will be able to find and train qualified personnel, or do so on a timely basis, or expand our operations and systems to the extent, and in the time, required. The loss of the Company’s senior executives could affect the Company’s ability to manage the business profitability. Sharps’ growth and development to date has been largely dependent on the active participation and leadership of its senior management team consisting of the Company’s Chairman and CEO, President, Senior Vice President of Sales, and Vice President and CFO. The Company believes that the continued success of the business is largely dependent upon the continued employment of the senior management team and has, therefore, (i) entered into individual employment agreements with key personnel and (ii) granted equity-based stock compensation to senior management members in order to provide an incentive for their continued employment with the Company. The unplanned loss of one or more members of the senior management team and our inability to hire key employees could disrupt and adversely impact the Company’s ability to execute its business plan. The Company’s Board of Directors oversees CEO and senior management succession planning. The process focuses on building management depth, considers continuity and stability within the Company, and responds to Sharps’ evolving needs and changing circumstances. The Board approves continuity plans for the CEO and senior management succession planning to enable the Board to respond to planned or unexpected vacancies in key positions. The Board considers optimizing the ongoing safe and sound operation of the Company and minimizing any potential disruption or loss of continuity to our business and operations as it evaluates the plan. Our business is dependent on a small number of customers. To the extent we are not successful in winning additional business mandates from our government and commercial customers or attracting new customers, our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. We are dependent on a small group of customers. In addition, there is an inherent concentration of credit risk associated with accounts receivable arising from sales to our major customers. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, two customers represented approximately 68% of revenues, of which the contract with the government represented 86% of revenues. Those two customers represented approximately 27%, or $546 thousand, of the total accounts receivable balance at June 30, 2010. To the extent these significant customers are delinquent or delayed in paying or we are not successful in obtaining consistent and additional business from our existing and new customers, our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. Aggressive pricing by existing competitors and the entrance of new competitors could drive down the Company’s profits and slow its growth. There are several competitors who offer similar or identical products and services that facilitate the disposal of medical waste outside the hospital and large health care setting. There are also a number of companies that focus specifically on the marketing of products and services which facilitate disposal through transport by the USPS (similar to the Company’s products). These companies include (i) smaller private companies or (ii) divisions of larger medical or solid waste companies. Additionally, the Company does compete, in certain markets, with Stericycle, the largest medical waste company in the country, which focuses primarily on a pick-up service business model. As Sharps continues to grow and increase awareness of the proper disposal of syringes and unused medications it does believe it may face more and pos sibly significant competition. The Company believes its patent-pending Waste Conversion Process™, first mover advantages, excellent industry reputation, quality solutions and products, as well as its capabilities as a vertically integrated producer of products and services, provides significant differentiation in the current competitive market. 11 The lack of customer long-term volume commitments could adversely affect the Company’s profits and future growth. Although the Company does enter into exclusive contracts with the majority of its enterprise customers, these contracts do not have provisions for firm long-term volume commitments. In general, customer purchase orders may be canceled and order volume levels can be changed or delayed with limited or no penalties. Canceled, delayed or reduced purchase orders could significantly affect the financial performance of the Company. An inability to maintain existing government contracts or win additional government contracts over an extended period could have a material adverse effect on our operations and adversely affect our future revenue. A material amount of our revenues are generated through the contract with a major U.S. government agency. Our revenues for the first year of the five year contract (one year plus four option years) were approximately $28.5 million ($6.0 million of which was recognized in fiscal year 2009, $22.5 million was recognized in the first half of fiscal year 2010). In January 2010, Sharps was awarded the first option year (ending January 31, 2011) valued at approximately $1.6 million and is expected to be recognized from February 1, 2010 through January 31, 2011. There is expected to be approximately $1.6 million in revenue in calendar year 2010 for the maintenance component of the contract including $0.8 million in the second half of fiscal year 2010. The remaining three option years are expected to be approximately $3.0 million per contract year. Although, the Company believes the amounts above to be reasonable based upon the underlying contract and its current project plan, it makes no assurances regarding the actual recognition of revenue by fiscal year, which could vary significantly from that noted above. All contracts with, or subcontracts involving, the federal government are terminable, or subject to renegotiation, by the applicable governmental agency on 30 days notice, at the option of the governmental agency. If we fail to maintain or replace these relationships, or if a material contract is terminated or renegotiated in a manner that is materially adverse to us, our revenues and future operations could be materially adversely affected. As a government contractor, we are subject to extensive government regulation, and our failure to comply with applicable regulations could subject us to penalties that may restrict our ability to conduct our business. Governmental contracts or subcontracts involving governmental facilities are often subject to specific procurement regulations, contract provisions and a variety of other requirements relating to the formation, administration, performance and accounting of these contracts. Many of these contracts include express or implied certifications of compliance with applicable regulations and contractual provisions. If we fail to comply with any regulations, requirements or statutes, our existing governmental contracts or subcontracts involving governmental facilities could be terminated or we could be suspended from government contracting or subcontracting. If one or more of our governmental contracts or subcontracts are terminated for any reason, or if we are suspended or debarred from government work, we could suffer a significant reduction i n expected revenues and profits. Furthermore, as a result of our governmental contracts or subcontracts involving governmental facilities, claims for civil or criminal fraud may be brought by the government for violations of these regulations, requirements or statutes. The Company is subject to extensive and costly federal, state and local laws and existing or future regulations may restrict the Company’s operations, increase our costs of operations and subject us to additional liability. Sharps is subject to extensive federal, state, and/or local laws, rules and regulations. We are required to obtain permits, authorizations, approvals, certificates and other types of governmental permission from the EPA, Texas and the local governments in Carthage, Texas with respect to our facility. Such laws, rules and regulations have been established to promote occupational safety and health standards and certain standards have been established in connection with the handling, transportation and disposal of certain types of medical and solid wastes, including mailed sharps. Sharps believes that it is currently in compliance in all material respects with all applicable laws and regulations governing its business, including the permits and authorizations for its incinerator facility. Our estimated annual costs of complying with these laws, regulations and guidelines is currently less than $100,000 per year. In the event additional laws, rules or regulations are adopted which affect our business, additional expenditures may be required in order for Sharps to be in compliance with such changing laws, rules and regulations. Furthermore, any material relaxation of any existing regulatory requirements governing the transportation and disposal of medical waste could result in a reduced demand for Sharps’ products and services and could have a material adverse effect on Sharps’ revenues and financial condition. The scope and duration of existing and future regulations affecting the medical and solid waste disposal industry cannot be anticipated and are subject to change. 12 In November 2005 and September 2009, the EPA and the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality promulgated new regulations under the Clean Air Act and associated state statutes which will affect the operations of the incineration facility located in Carthage, Texas. These regulations modify the emission limits and monitoring procedures required to operate an incineration facility. The new rules will necessitate changes to the Company’s owned incinerator and pollution control equipment at the facility or require installation of an alternative treatment method to ensure compliance. These regulations will also require the Company to obtain a Title V permit and conduct additional monitoring. Such changes will require the Company to incur significant capital expenditures in order to meet the requirements of the regulations. The C ompany has studied these amended regulations and their options, and decided in the interim to move forward with the process of adding alternative technology, autoclaving, which meets the EPA Clean Air Act requirements, for medical waste disposal which became fully operational in February 2009 at its current facility in Carthage, Texas. Autoclaving is a process that treats regulated waste with steam at high temperature and pressure to kill pathogens. Combining the autoclaving with a shredding or grinder process allows the waste to be disposed in a landfill operation. The Company believes autoclaving is environmentally cleaner and a less costly method of treating medical waste than incineration. Due to its continued growth, the Company anticipates that it will incur additional capital expenditures needed in order to meet the new air emission regulations. The additional capital expenditures are not expected to exceed $1.0 million. The Company expects capital expenditures related to these new regulations to be made by the end of the first half of fiscal 2013. The inability of the Company to operate its treatment facility would adversely affect its operations. The Company’s business utilizes a facility for the proper disposal or treatment of medical waste and unused pharmaceuticals. The Company’s owned facility has both incineration and autoclave technologies in Carthage, Texas (Panola County). Prior to the purchase of the facility in January 2008, the Company operated the facility since 1999 under a lease arrangement. The Company believes it operates and maintains the facility in compliance in all material respects with all federal, state and local laws and/or any other regulatory agency requirements involving solid waste disposal and the operation of the incinerator facility. The failure to maintain the permits for the treatment facility or unfavorable conditions contained in the permits could substantially impair our operations and reduce our revenues. Although the Company has an agreement with a secondary treatment facility to provide services in the event both the incinerator and autoclave are unavailable, any disruption in the availability of a disposal or treatment facility whether as a result of action taken by governmental authorities, natural disasters or otherwise would have an adverse affect on the Company’s operations and results of operations. The handling and disposal or treatment of regulated waste carries with it the risk of personal injury to employees and others. Our business requires us to handle materials that may be infectious or hazardous to life and property in other ways. Although our products and procedures are designed to minimize exposure to these materials, the possibility of accidents, leaks, spills, and acts of God always exists. Human beings, animals or property could be injured, sickened or damaged by exposure to regulated waste. This in turn could result in lawsuits in which we are found liable for such injuries, and substantial damages could be awarded against us. While we carry liability insurance intended to cover these contingencies, particular instances may occur that are not insured against or that are inadequately insured against. An uninsured or underinsured loss could be substantial and could impair our profitability and reduce our liquidity. The possibility of postal work interruptions and restrictions on shipping through the mail would adversely affect the disposal or treatment element of the Company’s business and have an adverse effect on our operations, results of operations and financial condition. Sharps currently transports (from the patient or user to the Company’s facility) the majority of its solution offerings using USPS; therefore, any long-term interruption in USPS delivery services would disrupt the disposal or treatment element of the Company’s business. Postal delivery interruptions are rare. Additionally, since USPS employees are federal employees, such employees may be prohibited from engaging in or continuing a postal work stoppage, although there can be no assurance that such work stoppage can be avoided. As noted above, the Company entered into an arrangement with UPS whereby UPS transports the Company’s Sharps® Recovery System ™ (formerly Sharps Disposal by Mail System®) products from the non-health care facility end user to the Company’s owned facility. The Company began s elling a UPS product to select markets in fiscal year 2007. The ability to ship items, whether through the USPS or UPS, is regulated by the government. Any change in regulation restricting the shipping of medical waste and unused pharmaceuticals through these channels would be detrimental to Sharps’ ability to conduct its operations. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any disruption in the transportation of products would have an adverse effect on our operations, results of operations and financial condition. 13 The Company’s stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, low trading volume and price volatility. The Company’s common stock has been listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market (“NASDAQ”) under the symbol “SMED” since May 6, 2009. The daily trading volumes for the Company’s common stock are, and may continue to be, relatively small compared to many other publicly traded securities. Since trading on the NASDAQ, the Company’s average daily trading volume has been approximately 100,000 shares. It may be difficult for you to sell your shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices, and the price of the Company’s common stock may, therefore, be volatile. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As of the date of this report, the Company did not have any unresolved staff comments. 