ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investors in Interpool, Inc. should consider the following risk factors as well as the other information contained herein. We are subject to the cyclicality and uncertainties of world trade which may impair demand for our chassis and containers. The demand for our chassis and containers primarily depends upon levels of world trade of finished goods and component parts. Recessionary business cycles, political conditions, the status of trade agreements and international conflicts may have an impact on our operating results. The demand for leased chassis also depends upon United States economic conditions and volumes of exports to the United States which are likely to be adversely affected if the value of the United States dollar declines. When the volume of world trade decreases, our business of leasing chassis and containers may be adversely affected as the demand for chassis and containers is reduced. A substantial decline in world trade may also adversely affect our customers, leading to possible defaults and the return of equipment prior to the end of a lease term. We operate in a highly competitive industry, which may adversely affect our results of operations or ability to expand our business. The transportation equipment leasing industry is highly competitive. We compete with many domestic and foreign leasing companies, as well as container and chassis manufacturers, banks offering financing leases and promoters of equipment ownership and leasing as an investment in the United States and abroad. Some of these competitors have greater financial resources and access to capital than we do. From time to time, the industry may have large under-utilized inventories of chassis and containers, which could lead to significant downward pressure on pricing and margins. In addition, if the available supply of intermodal transportation equipment were to increase significantly as a result of, among other factors, new companies entering the business of leasing and selling intermodal transportation equipment, our competitive position could be adversely affected. New entrants attracted by the projected high rate of containerized trade growth, together with the already highly competitive nature of our business, could put significant downward pressure on lease rates and margins and adversely affect our ability to achieve our growth plans. The expansion of such competition has, at times, led to overproduction of new containers and overbuying by shipping lines and leasing competitors and could continue to impact lease rates and utilization in the future. Certain of our leasing industry competitors have shifted their strategies toward an increase in long-term leasing and direct financing leases of shipping containers which has also added to competitive pressures. Potential customers may decide to buy rather than lease chassis and containers. We, like other suppliers of leased chassis and containers, are dependent upon decisions by shipping lines and other transportation companies to lease rather than buy their equipment. Major shipping lines could elect to buy their own equipment, construct their own facilities to manufacture containers or chassis, or make investments in such facilities. In addition, our ability to achieve our strategy of expanding our business in response to customer demand for long-term leasing and direct financing leasing would be adversely affected if our customers shifted to more short-term leasing. Most of the factors affecting the decisions of our customers are outside our control. Operating costs such as storage and repair and maintenance costs and potential repositioning cost also increase as utilization decreases. Pending governmental investigations may adversely affect us. Following our announcement in July 2003 that our Audit Committee had commissioned an internal investigation by special counsel into our accounting, we were notified that the SEC had opened an informal investigation of us. As we anticipated, this investigation was converted to a formal investigation later in 2003. We have fully cooperated with this investigation. During 2003 and 2004, the New York office of the SEC received a copy of the written report of the internal investigation and received documents and information from us, our Audit Committee and certain other parties pursuant to SEC subpoenas. During late 2003, we were also advised that the United States Attorney’s office for the District of New Jersey received a copy of the written report of the internal investigation by our Audit Committee’s Special Counsel and opened an investigation focusing on certain matters described in the report. We were neither a subject nor a target of the investigation by the U.S. Attorney’s office. We have not had any communications with either the SEC or the U.S. Attorney’s office relating to their respective investigations since 2004 and we do not have any information regarding the current status of either of these investigations. Therefore, we cannot predict the final outcome of either of these investigations and cannot be assured that they may not result in the taking of some action that may be adverse to us. Sustained Asian economic instability could reduce demand for leasing. A number of the shipping lines to which we lease containers are entities domiciled in several Asian countries. In addition, many of our customers are substantially dependent upon shipments of goods exported from Asia. From time to time, there have been economic disruptions, financial turmoil and political instability in this region. If similar events were to occur in the future, they could adversely affect these customers and lead to a reduced demand for leasing of our containers or otherwise adversely affect us. Terrorist attacks or hostilities could adversely affect us. Potential acts of terrorism or hostilities may affect the ports and depots at which we and our customers operate as well as our other facilities or those of our customers and suppliers. In addition, any such incident or similar act of violence could lead to a disruption to the worldwide ports system and flow of goods or contribute to economic instability in other respects. To the extent any such event were to result directly or indirectly in a reduction in the level of international trade and reduced demand for transportation equipment, our business would be adversely affected. In addition, if one of our owned or managed containers were to be involved in a terrorist attack, our customer agreements and insurance policies might not be adequate to fully protect us and the third party equipment owners from any liability. We also may be subject to domestic or international regulations designed to prevent the use of containers for international terrorism or other illegal activities. As such regulations develop and change, we may incur increased compliance or related competitive costs affecting existing inventories or future containers that are acquired which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Environmental liability may adversely affect our business and financial situation. Like other companies, we are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those regulating the use and disposal of hazardous substances. We and the third party equipment owners could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and third-party claims for property damage and personal injury, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations in connection with our current or historical operations. Under some environmental laws in the United States and certain other countries, the owner of a leased container may be liable for environmental damage, cleanup or other costs in the event of a spill or discharge of material from a container without regard to the owner’s fault. While we maintain insurance and require lessees to indemnify against certain losses, such insurance and indemnities may not cover or be sufficient to protect us and our third party equipment owners against losses arising from environmental damage. Defaults by our customers could adversely affect our business by decreasing revenues and increasing storage, collection and recovery expenses. We are dependent upon our lessees continuing to make lease payments for our equipment. A default by a lessee may cause us and our third party equipment owners to lose revenues for past services and incur expenses for storage, collection and recovery. Repossession from defaulting lessees may be difficult and more expensive in jurisdictions whose laws do not confer the same security interests and rights to creditors and lessors as those in the United States and in jurisdictions where recovery of equipment from the defaulting lessees is more cumbersome. If a lessee defaults, we may be unable to re-lease recovered equipment for comparable rates or terms. Changes in market price, availability or transportation costs of equipment manufactured in China could adversely affect our ability to maintain our supply of containers. Changes in the political, economic or financial condition of China, which would increase the market price, availability or transportation costs of containers or chassis, could adversely affect our ability to maintain our supply of equipment. China is currently the largest container producing nation in the world and a significant supplier of chassis. We currently purchase the vast majority of our containers and a majority of our chassis from manufacturers in China. In the event that it were to become more expensive for us to procure containers and chassis in China or to transport these containers or chassis at a low cost from China to the locations where they are needed, because of a shift in United States trade policy toward China, increased tariffs imposed by the United States or other governments, a significant downturn in the political, economic or financial condition of China, or for any other reason, we would have to seek alternative sources of supply. We may not be able to make alternative arrangements quickly enough to meet our equipment needs, and the alternative arrangements may increase our costs. Proposed Federal roadability rules and regulations for intermodal equipment providers may impose additional obligations and costs on us. The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (“FMCSA”) of the United States Department of Transportation (“USDOT”) has proposed regulations for entities offering intermodal chassis to motor carriers for transportation of intermodal containers in interstate commerce (“Roadability Regulations”). Pursuant to authority delegated by the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Act (“SAFETEA”) [49 U.S.C. 31151], this rulemaking, if adopted in its currently proposed form, would require each intermodal equipment provider (“IEP”) to register and file certain reports with the FMCSA, display a USDOT number on each chassis offered for interstate commerce, establish a systematic chassis inspection, repair and maintenance program (to the extent it did not already have one), maintain documentation with regard to such program and provide means for drivers and motor carriers to report on chassis deficiencies and defects. The FMCSA is also proposing additional inspection requirements for motor carriers and drivers operating intermodal equipment, including chassis. The proposed rulemaking would establish sanctions for chassis that fail to comply with the applicable Federal safety regulations. The FMCSA has requested the public to comment on the proposed rulemaking by March 21, 2007. As neither the comments nor the FMSCA reaction to them is known at this time, we are unable to predict when or whether any new rules and regulations will be implemented by the FMCSA, the final form of any such rules and regulations, their ultimate scope, whether and to what extent any material new obligations will be imposed on IEPs or whether and to what extent we will even be considered to be an IEP with respect to some or all of our chassis fleet. While we believe our current chassis safety practices and procedures are suitable and sound, at this stage we cannot predict whether we will incur additional substantive or reporting obligations as a result of any such new rules and regulations as may be adopted or whether and to what extent we will incur additional costs if any such rules and regulations are implemented. We are controlled by a limited number of stockholders; this concentrated ownership could discourage acquisition bids for us that are not supported by our majority stockholders or limit the price investors will be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. As of March 1, 2007, approximately 62.7% of our common stock is beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, in the aggregate by Martin Tuchman, Warren L. Serenbetz, Jr., Raoul J. Witteveen and Arthur L. Burns, together with certain members of their immediate families and certain related entities. Each of Messrs. Tuchman, Serenbetz and Burns is a member of our Board of Directors and Mr. Tuchman and Mr. Burns are executive officers. Mr. Witteveen is a former director and executive officer. These individuals, either directly or indirectly, have the ability to elect all of the members of our Board of Directors and to control the outcome of all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders. Our concentrated ownership may discourage acquisition bids for us that are not supported by our majority stockholders. This concentration of ownership could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, on behalf of himself and certain other parties, has proposed the acquisition of all of our publicly traded common stock at $24.00 per share. There can be no assurance that the proposed transaction will proceed. If this transaction were to proceed and be consummated on the terms proposed, our public stockholders will not have any further opportunity to realize benefits of the ownership of our common stock. On January 16, 2007, our Board of Directors received a letter from Martin Tuchman, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, supported by other significant stockholders of ours and an investment fund affiliated with Fortis Merchant Banking, proposing an acquisition of all of our outstanding common stock (other than a portion of the shares held by Mr. Tuchman and the other supporting stockholders) for $24.00 per share in cash. Mr. Tuchman and the other stockholders supporting his letter to our Board, together with their families and investment affiliates, presently beneficially own more than 50% of our 29.3 million shares of common stock currently outstanding. Mr. Tuchman’s proposal letter contemplated that Mr. Tuchman and the other stockholders supporting the proposal would reinvest approximately 6.2 million of their currently held shares in the proposed transaction and sell the balance of their holdings (approximately 12.3 million shares) at the same $24.00 per share price in cash as our non-affiliated public stockholders would receive for their 10.8 million shares currently outstanding. Our Board of Directors formed a Special Committee of independent directors to review and evaluate the proposal set forth in Mr. Tuchman’s letter, consistent with its fiduciary duties. The Special Committee has engaged independent legal counsel and an independent financial advisor to assist it with its work. The Special Committee, working with its advisors, is proceeding to evaluate the proposal and alternatives available to us to determine whether or not the proposal is in the best interests of our public stockholders. The Special Committee has instructed its financial advisor and our financial advisor to contact potentially interested parties. To date, no decisions have been made by the Special Committee or the Board of Directors with respect to any response to the proposal. There can be no assurance that any definitive offer will be made, that any agreement will be executed or that this or any other transaction will be approved or consummated. In the event that the transaction proposed by Mr. Tuchman were to proceed and were to be consummated on the terms that have been proposed, it would constitute a “going private” transaction. If the transaction were consummated, we would become a private company whose common stock would no longer be publicly traded, and we may no longer be subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. If this were to occur, our current public stockholders would be selling their shares for $24.00 per share and would no longer have the opportunity to benefit from any future appreciation in the value of our stock and would no longer receive cash dividends or any other benefits of ownership of our common stock. If the proposed transaction does not proceed, stockholders may not have as beneficial an opportunity to sell their shares, and the additional costs incurred in negotiating the transaction may not produce any benefit. If the acquisition transaction proposed by Mr. Tuchman does not proceed, or proceeds on less favorable terms than those proposed, we may not have other alternative transactions available to us or our stockholders that are as beneficial as the transaction that has been proposed. In addition, we are currently expending significant management attention and resources in connection with the potential transaction proposed by Mr. Tuchman, which may be of little or no value if an agreement cannot be consummated. So long as the proposed acquisition transaction is pending, our debt ratings are likely to be adversely affected, thereby increasing our borrowing costs. Following our announcement in January 2007 that Mr. Tuchman, supported by other significant stockholders of ours, and an investment fund affiliated with Fortis Merchant Banking, had made an offer to acquire all of our outstanding common stock (other than a portion of the shares held by Mr. Tuchman and the other supporting stockholders) for $24.00 per share in cash, the outlook for our credit ratings was changed by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services, Moody’s Investors Service, and Fitch Ratings. All three rating agencies cited the possibility that the proposed transaction would result in an increase in our financial leverage. Standard & Poor’s placed us on credit watch with negative implications, Moody’s placed us on review for possible downgrade, and Fitch placed us on rating watch negative. So long as the proposed acquisition transaction remains pending, these determinations by the rating agencies are likely to continue in effect, and could potentially increase our financing costs. We are subject to stockholder litigation relating to the potential acquisition proposed by Mr. Tuchman, which could adversely affect us and our ability to consummate the transaction if the Special Committee of our Board of Directors determines to proceed with the proposed transaction. In January 2007, two purported class actions were filed against us and certain of our directors, along with Fortis Merchant Banking, in the Delaware Court of Chancery (the “Pomeranz Action”) and the Superior Court of New Jersey (the “Lipsky Action”). In February 2007, a third purported class action was filed, also in the Delaware Court of Chancery (the “Martinez Action”), which also names us, our directors, and Fortis Merchant Banking as defendants and which names as additional defendants various shareholders alleged to support the potential transaction proposed by Mr. Tuchman in his letter to our Board of Directors dated January 16, 2007, pursuant to which the shares owned by our public stockholders, and a portion of the shares owned by Mr. Tuchman and the other stockholders supporting his proposal, are proposed to be purchased. The complaints in the Pomeranz Action and the Lipsky Action allege breaches of fiduciary duty and conflicts of interest on the part of our directors, among other things, in connection with the potential transaction proposed by Mr. Tuchman and the events preceding that proposal. The actions seek declaratory, injunctive, and other relief preventing consummation of the potential transaction proposed in Mr. Tuchman’s January 16, 2007 letter, together with an award of attorneys’ fees and litigation expenses. The complaint in the Martinez Action contains allegations that essentially overlap those in the Pomeranz and Lipsky Actions, but also alleges actual and/or anticipatory breaches by us and by Mr. Tuchman of a 2004 letter agreement in which Mr. Tuchman agreed not to sell or voluntarily transfer shares of our common stock unless our other shareholders are “concurrently offered the opportunity to sell or otherwise transfer a comparable percentage of the shares beneficially owned by them for the same consideration.” The complaint alleges that the proposal set forth in Mr. Tuchman’s January 16, 2007 letter would violate the 2004 letter agreement, in that our other shareholders were not offered the same opportunity to sell shares and invest in the private company that would be formed to acquire us. The complaint in the Martinez Action further alleges that various corporate transactions entered into by us in late 2005 and 2006 were designed to facilitate the transaction proposed by Mr. Tuchman in his January 16, 2007 letter, including the purchase by us of approximately 1.5 million shares of stock from Mr. Tuchman in November 2006, in accordance with our 1993 Stock Option Plan, as payment of the exercise price of Mr. Tuchman’s stock options, and as a result of which Mr. Tuchman received approximately 2.2 million shares. The Martinez Action seeks injunctive relief enjoining the transaction proposed in the January 16 Letter as well as rescission of our purchase of Mr. Tuchman’s shares that were tendered in connection with his November 2006 option exercise, as well as an award of an unspecified amount as damages. We have informed our insurance carrier of these actions and have retained outside counsel to assist in our defense. We intend to vigorously defend against this litigation. However, it is not possible at this time to predict the outcome of this litigation. Any adverse outcome could adversely affect the potential transaction proposed by Mr. Tuchman. As a result of the uncertainty regarding the outcome of this matter, no provision has been made in the consolidated financial statements with respect to this contingent liability. We have relationships with and have entered into transactions with members of our management and affiliated entities that may involve inherent conflicts of interest. Various relationships exist and various transactions have been entered into between or among us, on the one hand, and members of our management and affiliated entities, on the other hand. Some of these relationships and transactions may involve inherent conflicts of interest. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. We are dependent on the knowledge and experience of members of our senior management; loss of these members could adversely affect our ability to formulate and achieve our strategy and pursue new business initiatives. Our growth and continued profitability are dependent upon, among other factors, the abilities, experience and continued service of certain members of our senior management, including Martin Tuchman, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Tuchman holds, either directly or indirectly, a substantial equity interest in Interpool, Inc. (approximately 26% at March 1, 2007) and is also one of our directors. Additionally, other members of our senior management possess knowledge of, and extensive experience in, the intermodal transportation industry. We rely on this knowledge and experience in our strategic planning and in our day-to-day business operations. If one or more members of our senior management were to resign or otherwise be unavailable to serve us, the loss could adversely affect our ability to formulate and achieve our strategy and pursue new business initiatives. In addition, we do not currently have employment agreements with all of our executive officers. The volatility of the residual value of chassis and containers upon expiration of their leases could adversely affect our operating results. Although our operating results and those of our third party equipment owners primarily depend upon equipment leasing, profitability is also affected by the residual values (either for sale or re-leasing) of the chassis and containers upon expiration of their leases. These values, which can vary substantially, depend upon, among other factors, • The maintenance standards observed by lessees; • Expenses associated with off-hire, storage, repair, repositioning and re-marketing of returned equipment; • Our ability to negotiate lease extensions and remarket equipment profitably, which can be substantially impacted by the timing and volume of off-hired equipment; • The current cost of comparable new equipment; • Changes in lessees' requirements; • The availability of used equipment; • Rates of inflation; • Prevailing market conditions, including used equipment prices at the locations of equipment returns; • The cost to remanufacture chassis; • The costs of materials and labor; and • The obsolescence of certain types of equipment in our fleet. Most of these factors are outside of our control. Operating leases are subject to greater residual risk than direct financing leases. A recharacterization of our repatriation plan by the IRS could increase our tax liability. On December 27, 2005, our wholly-owned Barbados subsidiary, Interpool Limited, made a distribution to us of approximately $305.0 million (the “Distribution”), as part of a plan approved by Interpool, Inc.‘s Board of Directors to repatriate accumulated and current earnings and profits of Interpool Limited which previously had been considered permanently reinvested outside the United States. Pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the “AJCA”), the Distribution was subject to U.S. federal tax at a reduced rate of approximately 5.25%. In connection with our repatriation plan, on December 14, 2005, effective as of close of business on November 30, 2005, Interpool Limited, which operated our international container leasing business, transferred substantially all of its operating assets and related liabilities to Interpool Containers Limited (“ICL”), a newly formed Barbados company which is a subsidiary of Interpool, Inc. ICL now operates our international container leasing business. We received a tax opinion from outside tax counsel which concluded, based on certain assumptions and representations (including representations regarding the reinvestment of proceeds of the Distribution), that the Distribution should qualify for the special 5.25% federal tax rate as provided for in the AJCA. In addition, we received a second tax opinion from another law firm confirming their agreement with the overall conclusions reached in the original opinion. We expect to continue to fully recognize the tax benefits associated with this tax position pursuant to FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes. In the event the IRS took a contrary view, and successfully challenged our tax positions pertaining to our repatriation plan, our tax liability could increase significantly. Loss of our eligibility for tax benefits under the U.S.-Barbados tax treaty could increase our tax liability. During 2006, we claimed tax benefits under an income tax convention between the United States and Barbados (the “Tax Treaty”), the jurisdiction in which our subsidiary ICL operates our international container leasing business. Specifically, under the Tax Treaty, any profits of ICL from leasing of containers used in international trade generally are taxable only in Barbados and not in the United States. ICL is entitled to the benefits of the Tax Treaty for each year by satisfying the two-pronged test to the “limitation of benefits” provision: (1) more than 50% of the shares of ICL were owned, directly or indirectly, by any combination of individual United States residents or citizens (the “51% U.S. ownership test”), and (2) its income was not used in substantial part, directly or indirectly, to meet liabilities to persons who were not residents or citizens of the United States (the “base erosion test”). We believe ICL passed both of these tests through December 31, 2006. In addition to having to satisfy the 51% U.S. ownership and base erosion tests described above, ICL is only eligible for the Tax Treaty benefits with respect to its container rental and sales income if Interpool, Inc. is listed on a “recognized stock exchange” and Interpool, Inc.‘s stock is “primarily” and “regularly” traded on such exchange. During April 2004 Interpool, Inc. was de-listed by the New York Stock Exchange. However, on January 13, 2005 Interpool, Inc. was again listed, and began trading, on the New York Stock Exchange. We believe this listing and the trading volume of our common stock during 2006 satisfied the “primarily” and “regularly” traded requirements of the Tax Treaty and that ICL qualified under the Tax Treaty through December 31, 2006. There is no assurance we will continue to satisfy the “primarily” and “regularly” traded, 51% U.S. ownership or base erosion tests of the Tax Treaty. In addition, at some future date the Tax Treaty could be further modified in a manner adverse to us or repealed in its entirety, or we might not continue to be eligible for these tax benefits. In addition to ICL, another subsidiary, Interpool Limited, also resides in Barbados. As companies resident in Barbados, Interpool Limited and ICL are required to file tax returns in Barbados and pay any tax liability to Barbados. All such returns have been filed. A substantial portion of our future cash flows will be needed to service our indebtedness. Historically, we have made, and continue to make, use of indebtedness to finance our equipment leasing activities and for other general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2006, our total outstanding indebtedness was approximately $1.5 billion. In December 2006, at our request, Fortis Capital Corp. provided a commitment letter to us for up to $1.8 billion of debt financing, which could be used for various purposes, including to provide financing for a potential acquisition of our publicly traded common stock, which could include an acquisition of the type contemplated by Mr. Tuchman’s January 16, 2007 proposal letter as described above, or to refinance any or all of our outstanding indebtedness. In addition, as of December 31, 2006, a total commitment of $107.5 million was available under the chassis facility we established in September 2005. We anticipate that we will incur additional indebtedness in the future. We are required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, including fleet growth, and other corporate requirements. Should our cash flow become insufficient to service our debt obligations, we would be required to seek additional funds to meet our obligations. Additional funds, if needed, might not be available to us or, if available, might not be made available on terms acceptable to us. Our business is highly dependent upon the availability of capital. In particular, the growth and replacement of our fleet through new equipment purchases or acquisitions, as well as the refinancing of our existing debt, will require further debt or equity financings. There is no assurance that interest rates and advance rates on any future financings will be as attractive as those experienced in the past. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, further dilution to the existing stockholders may result. Increases in interest rates may increase our debt service obligations and adversely affect our liquidity. After considering borrowings payable under floating rate agreements which have been converted to fixed rate debt through the use of interest rate swap agreements, approximately 2% of our borrowings at December 31, 2006 were at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. At December 31, 2006, we also had approximately $362.5 million of unrestricted cash and marketable securities on hand. As interest rates rise, our debt service obligations increase. A significant rise in interest rates or future financing using variable rate debt could have a material adverse effect on results of operations in future periods. For further discussion on interest rate risk see Item 7A. The price of our common stock may fluctuate. The market price for our common stock has fluctuated in the past, and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future. These factors include: • Announcements of developments related to our business; • Developments relating to the proposed acquisition of our publicly traded common stock set forth in the proposal letter submitted by our chairman, Mr. Tuchman, on January 16, 2007, as described above; • Announcements of strategic acquisitions or dispositions of assets; • Exercise of outstanding options or warrants; • Fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations; • Sales of substantial amounts of our shares into the marketplace; • General conditions in our industry or the worldwide economy; • A shortfall in revenues or earnings compared to securities analysts' expectations; • Changes in analysts' recommendations or projections; and • An outbreak of war or hostilities Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could affect our profitability. The majority of leasing revenues and costs are billed in United States dollars. Most of our non-United States transactions are individually of small amounts and in various denominations and thus are not suitable for cost-effective hedging. In addition, almost all of the container and chassis purchases are paid in U.S. dollars. There can be no assurance that exchange rate fluctuations will not adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Our future business prospects could be adversely affected by consolidation within the container shipping industry. Recently there have been several large shipping line acquisitions that have resulted in some consolidation within the container shipping industry. This has resulted in a reduction of the number of large shipping lines and also in an increase in concentration of business that we have with the combined groups. Our future business prospects could be adversely affected if there was a continued reduction in the number of shipping lines in the world. In addition, due to concentration risk, we might decide to limit the amount of business exposure we have with any single combined group if the exposure was deemed unacceptable. Our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover and limit our growth opportunities, which could cause the market price of our shares to decline. Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-laws, as well as Delaware corporate law, contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control or changes in our management that a stockholder might consider favorable. These provisions apply even if the change may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. If a change of control or change in management is delayed or prevented, the market price of our shares could decline. In addition, our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-laws contain provisions that may discourage acquisition bids for us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 