Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known or currently deemed not to be material also may impair business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. I. Risks Relating to Ongoing Investigations and Legal Proceedings We are subject to ongoing investigations, which could require us to pay substantial fines or other penalties or subject us to other sanctions. We cannot predict the outcome or the timing of developments in these matters. We continue to incur significant expenses associated with these investigations. We are subject to ongoing investigations by the SEC and the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of New York. These investigations stem from alleged accounting irregularities associated with our financial 9 Table of Contents statements for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 and interim periods during 2005. While we are cooperating fully with the ongoing investigations mentioned above, we cannot predict when the investigations will be completed or the timing of any other developments, nor can we predict what the results of these matters may be. We are also subject to an industry-wide investigation by the Civil Division of the U.S. Department of Justice into the manufacture and sale of body armor products containing Zylon, a ballistic yarn produced by an unrelated company. We cannot predict the outcome of this investigation. We are a defendant in a securities class action and shareholder derivative action. On July 13, 2006, we signed a memorandum of understanding (the “Memorandum of Understanding”) to settle the securities class action and the shareholder derivative action. A stipulation of settlement, dated as of November 30, 2006 (the “Stipulation of Settlement”), which contains the terms of the settlement initially outlined in the Memorandum of Understanding, was executed on behalf of the parties and first submitted to the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York for its approval on December 15, 2006, and received preliminary approval on July 3, 2007. The class would receive $34.9 million in cash and 3,184,713 shares of our common stock under the settlement. The derivative action is being settled in consideration of the adoption of certain corporate governance provisions and payment of $0.3 million in legal fees and expenses to the lead counsel in the derivative action. In July 2007, the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York granted the lead plaintiffs’ motion for preliminary approval of settlements of the securities class action and shareholder derivative action described above. The court scheduled a hearing for October 5, 2007, to consider and determine whether to grant final approval of the settlement. On October 5, 2007, the court held a hearing to consider and determine whether to grant final approval of the settlements. The court took no action at the hearing, and indicated that it would issue a decision no sooner than 45 days after the hearing (or November 19, 2007) in order to allow the Commercial Litigation Division of the U.S. Justice Department, which had been notified of the settlement, to determine if it wished to make an objection. On November 19, 2007, the Commercial Litigation Division requested leave to submit an objection to the settlement. After being granted leave by the court, the Commercial Litigation Division filed a brief in opposition. As of the date of the filing of this Form 10-K, the court has not granted final approval of the settlement and the matter is still pending. These actions are also discussed in Item 3. Legal Proceedings. We incur significant expenses as a result of our obligation to indemnify former directors and executive officers in ongoing legal proceedings. These expenses have been substantial and are likely to continue to be substantial. This adversely affects our net income and liquidity. The investigations described in the previous risk factors also involve a number of former directors and executive officers. The former CEO, former CFO and former COO have been indicted by a grand jury and are the subject of a civil action initiated by the SEC as a result of these investigations. Under our By-Laws, we have certain obligations to advance expenses for legal fees incurred by these former directors and executive officers. To date, these expenses have been substantial. While we seek to monitor these expenses and to preserve our rights to recover these advances to the extent allowed under law, we will continue to incur expenses associated with our indemnification obligations. This adversely affects our financial position and profitability. With respect to the advancement of expenses sought by Mr. Brooks, the former CEO, we have contended that we are no longer obligated to advance such expenses based on the conduct of Mr. Brooks in transferring assets out of the United States. Mr. Brooks has initiated litigation in the Chancery Court for the State of 10 Table of Contents Delaware seeking a declaration that he is entitled to continued advancement, in response to which we have filed an answer denying his right to advancement. In addition, we have initiated litigation in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York contending that he has forfeited his rights to advancement. These actions are discussed in Item 3. Legal Proceedings. We cannot predict the outcome of such litigation. II. Risks Relating to Our Financial Controls and Historical Financial Statements We face continuing risks in connection with the restatement of our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, and quarterly financial statements for 2005 and 2004, as reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, as amended, for the year ended December 31, 2006. Notwithstanding our efforts to date to identify and remedy all material errors in those financial statements, we may discover other errors in those financial statements in the future. Moreover, the cost of identifying and remedying those errors may be substantial. We have identified a number of material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which could continue to impact negatively our ability to report our results of operations and financial condition accurately and in a timely manner. As required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our management has conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. We identified a number of material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and concluded that, as of December 31, 2007, we did not maintain effective control over financial reporting based in part on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. For a detailed description of these material weaknesses, please see Item 9A. Controls and Procedures in this Form 10-K. Each of the material weaknesses results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. As a result, we must perform extensive additional work to obtain reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial statements. Even with this additional work, given the number of material weaknesses identified, there is a risk of additional errors not being prevented or detected, which could result in additional restatements. Moreover, other material weaknesses may be identified. We have extensive work remaining to remedy the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. We are in the process of remedying the identified material weaknesses, and this work will continue during 2008 and perhaps beyond. For a detailed description of these remedial efforts, please see Item 9A. Controls and Procedures in this Form 10-K. There can be no assurance as to when all of the material weaknesses will be remedied. Until the remedial efforts are completed, management will continue to devote significant time and attention to these efforts, which may be to the detriment of our operations. We will continue to incur expenses associated with the additional procedures and resources required to prepare our consolidated financial statements. Certain of the remedial actions will be ongoing and will result in the incurrence of additional costs even after the material weaknesses are remedied. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations may be negatively affected by the cost of these remediation measures. If internal control over financial reporting remains ineffective, our business and future prospects may suffer. If we are unsuccessful in implementing or following our remediation plan, or fail to update our internal control over financial reporting as our business evolves or to integrate acquired businesses into our control system, we may not be able to timely or accurately report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows or to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures. If we are unable to report financial information 11 Table of Contents in a timely and accurate manner or to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures, we could be subject to, among other things, regulatory or enforcement actions by the SEC and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could adversely affect our business prospects and the market value of our common stock. Further, there are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of controls and procedures, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures. We could face additional litigation exposure and additional SEC enforcement or other regulatory action if further restatements were to occur or other accounting-related problems emerge. In addition, any future restatements or other accounting-related problems may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. III. Business and Operational Risks A substantial portion of our revenue is dependent on U.S. military business, and a decrease in such business could have a material adverse effect on us. U.S. military contracts account for a significant amount of our revenue. The U.S. military funds its contracts in increments based on annual authorization and appropriation, as well as supplemental bills passed by Congress and approved by the President, which may not be enacted or may provide funding that is greater than or less than the amount of the contract. Changes in the U.S. military’s budget, spending allocations or the timing of such spending could adversely affect our ability to receive future contracts. Our contracts with the U.S. military do not have a minimum purchase commitment, and the U.S. military generally has the right to cancel our contracts unilaterally with limited notice. A significant reduction in U.S. military expenditures for ballistic-resistant products would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Many of our customers have fluctuating budgets, which may cause fluctuations in our results of operations. Customers for our products include federal, state, municipal, foreign, military, law enforcement and other government agencies. Government tax revenues and budgetary constraints, which fluctuate from time to time, can affect budgetary allocations for these customers. Many domestic and foreign government agencies have in the past experienced budget deficits, that have led to decreased spending in defense, law enforcement and other military and security areas. Our results of operations may be subject to substantial period-to-period fluctuations because of these and other factors affecting military, law enforcement and other government spending. A reduction of funding for federal, state, municipal, foreign and other government agencies could have a material adverse effect on sales of our products and our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. For example, our sales have increased due to the current U.S. military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. We can provide no assurance that these increases will be maintained after the completion of those operations, or a reduction of forces serving in those operations. Our business is subject to various laws and regulations favoring the U.S. government’s contractual position, and our failure to comply with such laws and regulations could harm operating results and prospects. As a contractor to the U.S. government, we must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of the federal government contracts that affect how we do business with our U.S. government customers and may impose added costs on our business. These rules generally favor the U.S. government’s contractual position. For example, these regulations and laws include provisions that subject our federal government contracts to protest or challenge by unsuccessful bidders and unilateral termination, reduction or modification by the U.S. government. Failure to comply with these or other laws and regulations could result in contract termination, suspension or debarment from contracting with the federal government, civil fines and damages and criminal prosecution and penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. 12 Table of Contents Growth of operations may strain resources and if we fail to manage growth successfully, our business could be adversely affected. Increased orders for body armor, as well as the introduction of new products, have placed, and may continue to place, a strain on our operational, financial and managerial resources and personnel. Any failure to manage growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Our business is materially dependent upon raw materials that have been subject to shortages in recent years. A substantial majority of our revenues and net income is dependent upon the sale of our ballistic-resistant products. Substantially all of the raw materials used in the manufacturing of our ballistic-resistant products consist of fabrics containing fibers that are patented by major corporations and are purchased from weaving companies. Accordingly, we have limited sources of such required raw materials for our ballistic-resistant products. In recent years, shortages of such required raw materials limited the quantity of products that we could produce, and demand for such products exceeded that amount. Although we were able to mitigate partially the impact of these shortages by using a variety of ballistic fibers instead of one type of fiber, the impact of these shortages was not completely eliminated because there are limits on the availability of ballistic fiber blends. In response to these shortages, we have adopted a policy of purchasing such materials based on their availability rather than on our immediate need for such materials. This policy is designed to reduce the effects of any future shortages; however, it increases our inventory carrying costs. Further, notwithstanding efforts to increase inventory of required raw materials, if any of these manufacturers ceases to produce these needed materials or shortages persist or worsen, we may be required to use other fabrics in our ballistic-resistant products. In such event, there is no assurance that we would be able to identify alternative fabrics with comparable performance and comparable cost. We expect any material future shortages of required raw materials to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Increases in the prices paid for raw materials or labor costs may adversely affect profit margins. If we experience significant increases in the prices paid for raw materials or labor costs, we may not be able to pass through to our customers such increases in those costs. Even if we are able to pass through all or a portion of such cost increases to our customers, profit margins on such products may be reduced. Fixed price contracts are especially susceptible to such profit margin reductions. Our products are used in situations that are inherently risky. Accordingly, we may face product liability and exposure to other claims for which we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance. The products that we manufacture are typically used in applications and situations that involve high levels of risk of personal injury. Failure to use these products for their intended purposes, failure to use these products properly, malfunction of these products and, in some circumstances, even correct use of these products could result in serious bodily injury or death. We cannot guarantee that our insurance coverage would be sufficient to cover the payment of any potential claim arising out of the use of our products. Any substantial uninsured loss thus would have to be paid out of our assets as applicable and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. In addition, we cannot guarantee that our current insurance or any other insurance coverage will continue to be available or, if available, that it will be obtainable at a reasonable cost. The cost of obtaining insurance coverage has risen substantially due to increased sales levels and increased volatility within the reinsurance industry. Any material uninsured loss could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. If we are unable to obtain product liability coverage, then we may be prohibited from bidding for orders from certain government customers because many governmental agencies currently require such insurance coverage. Any inability to bid for government contracts as a result of insufficient insurance coverage would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. 13 Table of Contents We are engaged in a highly competitive marketplace, which demands that producers continue to develop new products. Our business will be adversely affected if we are not able to continue to develop new and competitive products. Our customers continually seek improvements in body armor and similar products that we manufacture and market. As a result, in order to meet our customers’ needs, we must continue to develop new products and innovations and enhancements to existing products. Many of our competitors have significantly more capital than we have and as a result have the ability to devote more resources to research and development and to marketing of their products. In order to remain competitive, we must continue to devote a material portion of our financial resources to research and development and there is no assurance that we will be successful in our product improvement efforts in our competitive marketplace. We face continuous pricing pressure from our customers and our competitors. This will affect our margins and therefore our profitability and cash flow unless we can manage efficiently our manufacturing costs and market our products based on superior quality. Our customers often award contracts based on product pricing, and we believe we have not received some awards due to pricing discounts given by our competitors. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources than we have, and as a result may be able to withstand the adverse effect of discounted pricing and reduced margins in order to build market share. While one of our strategies is also to discount to retain and increase market share, and to seek to manage our manufacturing efficiently to sustain acceptable margins, we may not be able to maintain appropriate prices or to manage product manufacturing costs sufficiently to sustain acceptable margins. Similarly, we seek to compete based on product quality rather than price, but we may not be successful in these efforts with enough contract awards to offset the need to reduce prices for other products. This could adversely affect our profitability, our liquidity and our market share. We may have difficulty protecting our proprietary technology. Intellectual property and proprietary technology are important to the success of our business. While we actively police the use of our intellectual property and proprietary technology, it is difficult to monitor all possible misappropriations and unauthorized access to our intellectual property and technology. Further, litigation involving these matters can be costly, with no guarantee of ultimate success. Dissemination or dilution of the aforementioned property and technology also could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. If we are unable to successfully retain executive leadership and other key personnel, our ability to successfully develop and market our products and operate our business may be harmed. We are substantially dependent on the personal efforts and abilities of General Larry Ellis, our President and CEO; John C. Siemer, our COO and Chief of Staff; James F. Anderson, our CFO; and Samuel White, our Executive Vice President Global Sales, Marketing and Research and Development. Our relationship with certain of our customers, particularly the U.S. military, is substantially dependent on certain of our management personnel. Changes to our executive officers or the inability to retain our key personnel could delay the development and introduction of new products, harm our ability to sell our products and damage the image of our brands and negatively impact our credibility with key customers. We believe that retention of our key personnel is critical to executing our business strategy and our operations going forward and the failure to retain our key personnel may impact our financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents We have launched and expect to continue to launch strategic and operational initiatives which if not successful could adversely affect our business. We believe that in order to stay competitive and generate positive earnings and cash flow, we must successfully implement our strategies. In connection with the implementation of our strategies, we have launched, and expect to continue to launch, several operational and strategic initiatives. However, the success of any of these initiatives may not be achieved if: • we do not maintain adequate levels of liquidity to finance such initiatives or are unable to meet the financial ratios and other covenants contained in our revolving line of credit agreement; • they are not accepted by our customers and vendors; • they do not result in revenue growth, generate cash flow, reduce operating costs or reduce our working capital investments; or • we are unable to provide the products necessary to implement these initiatives successfully or other products are introduced to the marketplace that result in our strategies being of less value to customers. Failure to implement one or more of our strategies and related initiatives successfully could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We rely significantly on our credit facility for liquidity needs. The available credit under the facility is linked to a borrowing base, and reductions in eligible receivables and inventory will reduce our ability to draw on the line. The terms of the facility include various covenants, and failure to meet these covenants could affect our ability to borrow. These factors could affect our liquidity. Our liquidity depends on cash generated from operations and the availability of funding under our credit agreement. The borrowing base under our credit agreement is limited to eligible receivables and inventories, as described in the agreement. Our availability of financing under the credit agreement also depends on the satisfaction of a number of other conditions, including meeting financial and other covenants. If we are unable to continue meeting these covenants, our lender could declare us in default, among other possible courses of action. We continue to strive to grow our business, and if we are successful we may have increasing needs for liquidity through our credit facility and to increase the amount that we can borrow. While we have been able to negotiate increases in availability of credit in the past, it may not be possible to do so in the future. We may be required to seek other sources of financing. We may not be able to obtain additional sources of financing, and this could affect our ability to grow our business. The credit agreement governing our financing contains representations, warranties and covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to: (1) incur additional indebtedness; (2) incur liens; (3) pay dividends or make other restricted payments; (4) make certain investments; (5) sell or make certain dispositions of assets or engage in sale and leaseback transactions; (6) engage in certain business activities; (7) engage in mergers, acquisitions or consolidations; and (8) enter into certain contractual obligations. In addition, the credit agreement contains customary financial covenants that we must comply with on a monthly basis. The credit agreement also contains financial covenants that we must comply with on a periodic basis relating to our cumulative sales levels and an annual capital expenditure threshold. We are in compliance with the terms of the credit agreement at December 31, 2007. In the event of default under the terms of our credit facility, we may be required to negotiate changes to our financial covenants with, or to obtain waivers of certain of these covenants from, the lender or to negotiate replacement financing arrangements with one or more other financial institutions. If such actions become necessary, we believe that we will be able to negotiate such changes, waivers and/or replacement financings, but no assurance can be given that we will be successful or as to the terms of any such arrangements. 15 Table of Contents At December 31, 2007, we had $16.3 million outstanding under our credit facility, as more fully described in Note 5. Revolving Line of Credit to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Environmental issues could adversely affect our business. We are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, discharge and disposal of hazardous material. Compliance with current laws and regulations has not had and is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. It is possible, however, that environmental issues may arise in the future that we cannot currently predict and which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We may incur additional costs or material shortages due to new NIJ certification and testing standards. Body armor ballistic protection packages require certification to government standards in order to be sold to law enforcement and military customers. Law enforcement certification standards are set by the NIJ and for the military; the military specifications are set for each individual contract. Internationally, standards vary based on the country with whom we are dealing, though most will adhere to the NIJ certification requirements. The NIJ is in the process of revising their standard, which may result in a more complex and costly testing protocol. Any major change in testing procedures and performance standards carries both capital costs to build the testing protocol to meet the new standards, and potential material and production costs to build to the new standard. Additionally, expanding into international markets increases the likelihood that new certification standards will be required, leading to increased costs. IV. Risks Relating to the Securities Markets and Our Stock Price Our stock price is volatile because it is affected by numerous factors out of our control. The market price and trading volume of our common stock is subject to significant volatility and this trend may continue. The general economic, political, and stock market conditions that may affect the market prices of our common stock are beyond our control. The value of our common stock may decline regardless of our operating performance or prospects. Factors affecting market price include, but are not limited to: (i) variations in our operating results and whether we have achieved our key business targets; (ii) the limited number of shares of our common stock available for purchase or sale in the public markets; (iii) sales or purchases of large blocks of stock; (iv) changes in, or failure to meet, earnings estimates; (v) changes in securities analysts’ buy/sell recommendations; (vi) differences between reported results and those expected by investors and securities analysts; and (vii) announcements of new contracts by us or by our competitors. In the past, securities class action litigation has been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. We are presently a defendant in such litigation. Additionally, we are being investigated by the SEC and the U.S. Department of Justice. The outcomes of these investigations could result in increased volatility of the market price of our common stock. Please see Item 3. Legal Proceedings in this Form 10-K for a detailed discussion of these investigations. Our stock is quoted on the Pink Sheets, which may decrease the liquidity of our common stock. On August 29, 2006, the American Stock Exchange (“AMEX”) de-listed our common stock because we were not able to file certain periodic reports with the SEC in a timely manner. Since that time our common stock has been quoted on the Pink Sheets through October 31, 2007, under the symbol “DHBT.PK” and as of November 1, 2007, under the symbol “PBSO.PK”. Broker-dealers often decline to trade in Pink Sheet stocks given that the market for such securities is often limited, the stocks are more volatile, and the risk to investors is greater than with stocks listed on other national securities exchanges. Consequently, selling our common stock can be difficult because smaller quantities of shares can be bought and sold, transactions can be delayed and securities analyst and news media coverage of our Company may be reduced. These factors could result in lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for shares of our common stock as well as lower trading 16 Table of Contents volume. Although we intend to apply for the listing of our common stock on a national securities exchange once we are current in our periodic reporting obligations with the SEC, we cannot guarantee that we will be successful in those efforts. Investors should realize that they may be unable to sell shares of our common stock that they purchase. Accordingly, investors must be able to bear the financial risks associated with losing their entire investment in our common stock. Our common stock may be subject to penny stock rules, which may make it more difficult for our stockholders to sell their common stock. Our common stock may be considered a “penny stock” pursuant to Rule 3a51-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in penny stocks are regulated by certain penny stock rules adopted by the SEC. Penny stocks generally are defined as equity securities with a price of less than $5.00 per share. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to purchase or sale of a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver to the customer a standardized risk disclosure document that provides information about penny stocks and the risks associated with the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer account. In addition, the penny stock rules generally require that, prior to a transaction in a penny stock, the broker-dealer make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market of a stock that becomes subject to the penny stock rules. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have received written comments from the staff of the Division of Corporation Finance of the SEC (the “Staff”) relating to our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006. The comments relate principally to: (i) including certain quarterly restated financial information for each of the quarters during 2006, 2005 and 2004; (ii) disclosing balance sheet restatement adjustments as of December 31, 2004 and 2003; (iii) the accounting and/or disclosure of certain account balances and transactions; (iv) our internal controls over financial reporting; (v) our revenue recognition policy; and (vi) a request that we file certain contracts with the U.S. Army as exhibits to Exchange Act reports. On February 19, 2008, we filed Amendment No. 1 to our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 to address the Staff’s comments. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Staff’s comments remain unresolved. 