Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known or currently deemed not to be material also may impair business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents We are subject to ongoing investigations, which could require us to pay substantial fines or other penalties or subject us to other sanctions. We cannot predict the outcome or the timing of developments in these matters. We are subject to ongoing investigations by the SEC and other regulatory authorities. These investigations stem from alleged accounting irregularities associated with our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 and interim periods during 2005. While we are presently cooperating fully with the above-mentioned ongoing investigations, we cannot predict when the investigations will be completed or the timing of any other developments, nor can we predict what the results of these matters may be. We are also subject to an industry-wide investigation by the Civil Division of the U.S. Department of Justice into the manufacture and sale of body armor products containing Zylon, a ballistic yarn produced by an unrelated company. We cannot reasonably predict the outcome of this investigation. We are a defendant in a securities class action and shareholder derivative action. On July 13, 2006, we signed a Memorandum of Understanding to settle a securities class action and a shareholder derivative action. A Stipulation of Settlement, dated as of November 30, 2006, which contains the terms of the settlement initially outlined in the Memorandum of Understanding, was executed on behalf of the parties and submitted to the United States District Court, Eastern District of New York for its approval on December 15, 2006, and received preliminary approval on July 3, 2007. See Item 3—LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. The class would receive $34.9 million in cash and 3,184,713 shares of our Common Stock under the settlement, which is subject to final court approval. The derivative action is being settled in consideration of the adoption of certain corporate governance provisions and payment of $0.3 million in legal fees and expenses to the lead counsel in the derivative action. That settlement also is subject to final court approval. There can be no assurance whether or when the court will grant final approval of the proposed settlements. Also, if the court does not grant final approval of the proposed settlement, we cannot predict what the ultimate outcome of this matter will be. We face continuing risks in connection with the restatement of our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, as discussed in Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. These risks include: • The risk that, notwithstanding our efforts to date to identify and remedy all material errors in those financial statements, we may discover other errors in those financial statements in the future; and • the risk that the cost of identifying and remedying those errors will be high. We have identified a number of material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which could continue to impact negatively our ability to report our results of operations and financial condition accurately and in a timely manner. As required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our management has conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006. We identified a number of material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and concluded that, as of December 31, 2006, we did not maintain effective control over financial reporting based in part on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. For a detailed description of these material weaknesses, see Item 9A—CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES. Each of the material weaknesses results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. As a result, we must perform extensive additional work to obtain reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial statements. Even with this additional work, given the number of material weaknesses identified, there is a risk of additional errors not being prevented or detected, which could result in additional restatements. Moreover, other material weaknesses may be identified. 9 Table of Contents We have extensive work remaining to remedy the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. We are in the process of remedying the identified material weaknesses, and this work will continue during 2007 and perhaps beyond. For a detailed description of these remedial efforts, see Item 9A—CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES. There can be no assurance as to when all of the material weaknesses will be remedied. Until the remedial efforts are completed, management will continue to devote significant time and attention to these efforts, which may be to the detriment of our operations. We will continue to incur expenses associated with the additional procedures and resources required to prepare our consolidated financial statements. Certain of the remedial actions, such as hiring additional qualified personnel to implement reconciliation and review procedures, will be ongoing and will result in us incurring additional costs even after the material weaknesses are remedied. As a result, our financial condition and results of operation may be negatively affected by the cost of these remediation measures. If internal control over financial reporting remains ineffective, our business and future prospects may suffer. If we are unsuccessful in implementing or following our remediation plan, or fail to update our internal control over financial reporting as our business evolves or to integrate acquired businesses into our controls system, we may not be able to timely or accurately report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows or to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures. If we are unable to report financial information in a timely and accurate manner or to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures, we could be subject to, among other things, regulatory or enforcement actions by the SEC and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could adversely affect our business prospects and the market value of our Common Stock. Further, there are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of controls and procedures, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures. We could face additional litigation exposure and additional SEC enforcement or other regulatory action if further restatements were to occur or other accounting-related problems emerge. In addition, any future restatements or other accounting-related problems may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business is materially dependent upon raw materials that have been subject to shortages in recent years. A substantial majority of revenues and net income is dependent upon the sale of our ballistic-resistant products. Substantially all of the raw materials used in the manufacturing of ballistic-resistant products consist of fabrics containing fibers that are patented by major corporations and are purchased from weaving companies. Accordingly, we have limited sources of such required raw materials for our ballistic-resistant products. In recent years, shortages of such required raw materials limited the quantity of products that we could produce, and demand for such products exceeded that amount. Although we were able to mitigate partially the impact of these shortages by using a variety of ballistic fibers instead of one type of fiber, the impact of these shortages was not completely eliminated because there are limits on the availability of ballistic fiber blends. In response to these shortages, we have adopted a policy of purchasing such materials based on their availability rather than our immediate need for such materials. This policy is designed to reduce the effects of any future shortages; however, it increases our inventory carrying costs. Further, notwithstanding efforts to increase inventory of required raw materials, if any of these manufacturers cease to produce these needed materials or shortages persist or worsen, we may be required to use other fabrics in our ballistic-resistant products. In such event, there is no assurance that we would be able to identify alternate fabrics with comparable performance and comparable cost. We expect any material future shortages of required raw materials to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. 10 Table of Contents Increases in the price paid for raw materials may adversely affect profit margins. If we experience significant increases in the prices paid for raw materials, we may be unable to pass through to our customers such increases in cost of raw materials. If we are unable to pass through all or a portion of such cost increases to our customers, profit margins on such products may be reduced. Fixed price contracts are especially susceptible to having profit margins reduced by increases in the price of raw materials. Our products are used in situations that are inherently risky. Accordingly, we may face product liability and other claims exposure for which we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance. The products that we manufacture are typically used in applications and situations that involve high levels of risk of personal injury. Failure to use these products for their intended purposes, failure to use them properly, their malfunction and, in some circumstances, even correct use of these products could result in serious bodily injury or death. We cannot guarantee that our insurance coverage would be sufficient to cover the payment of any potential claim. Any substantial uninsured loss would have to be paid out of our assets as applicable and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we cannot guarantee that our current insurance or any other insurance coverage will continue to be available or, if available, that it will be obtainable at a reasonable cost. The cost of obtaining insurance coverage has risen substantially due to increased sales levels and increased volatility within the reinsurance industry. Any material uninsured loss could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. If we are unable to obtain product liability coverage we may be prohibited from bidding for orders from certain government customers because many governmental agencies currently require such insurance coverage. Any inability to bid for government contracts as a result of insufficient insurance coverage would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are engaged in a highly competitive marketplace, which demands that producers continue to develop new products. Our business will be adversely affected if we are not able to continue to develop new and competitive products. We face a number of well-financed competitors. In order to remain competitive, we must continue to develop innovative products that meet the needs of our customers. We may have difficulty protecting our proprietary technology. Intellectual property and proprietary technology are important to the success of our business. It is difficult to monitor all possible misappropriations and unauthorized access to our intellectual property and technology. Further, litigation involving these matters can be costly, with no guarantee of ultimate success. Dissemination or dilution of the aforementioned property and technology could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. A substantial portion of our revenue is dependent on U.S. military business, and a decrease in such business could have a material adverse effect on us. U.S. military contracts account for the majority of our revenue. The U.S. military funds its contracts in increments based on annual authorization and appropriation, as well as supplemental bills passed by Congress and approved by the President, which may not be enacted or may provide funding that is greater than or less than the amount of the contract. Changes in the U.S. military’s budget, spending allocations or the timing of such spending could adversely affect our ability to receive future contracts. Our contracts with the U.S. military do not have a minimum purchase commitment, and the U.S. military generally has the right to cancel our contracts unilaterally with limited notice. A significant reduction in U.S. military expenditures for ballistic-resistant products would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Many of our customers have fluctuating budgets, which may cause substantial fluctuations in our results of operations. Customers for our products include federal, state, municipal, foreign, military, law enforcement and other governmental agencies. Government tax revenues and budgetary constraints, which fluctuate from time to time, can affect budgetary allocations for these customers. Many domestic and foreign government agencies have in the past experienced budget deficits that have led to decreased spending in defense, law enforcement and other military and security areas. Our results of operations may be subject to substantial period-to-period fluctuations because of these and other factors affecting military, law enforcement and other governmental spending. A reduction of funding for federal, state, municipal, foreign and other governmental agencies could have a material adverse effect on sales of our products and our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. For example, our sales have increased due to the U.S. military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. We can provide no assurance that these increases will be maintained after the completion of, or a reduction of forces serving in, those operations. Our business is subject to various laws and regulations favoring the U.S. government’s contractual position, and our failure to comply with such laws and regulations could harm operating results and prospects. As a contractor to the U.S. government, we must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of the federal government contracts that affect how we do business with our U.S. government customers and may impose added costs on our business. These rules generally favor the U.S. government’s contractual position. For example, these regulations and laws include provisions that subject contracts we have been awarded to protest or challenge by unsuccessful bidders and unilateral termination, reduction or modification by the U.S. government. The accuracy and appropriateness of certain costs and expenses used to substantiate direct and indirect costs for the U.S. government under contracts are subject to extensive regulation and audit by the Defense Contract Audit Agency, an arm of the DOD. Responding to governmental audits, inquiries or investigations may involve significant expense and divert our management’s attention from our business operations. Failure to comply with these or other laws and regulations could result in contract termination, suspension or debarment from contracting with the federal government, civil fines and damages and criminal prosecution and penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Growth of operations may strain resources and if we fail to successfully manage growth, our business could be adversely affected. Increased orders for body armor for military personnel as well as the introduction of new products have placed, and may continue to place, a strain on our operational, financial and managerial resources and personnel. Any failure to effectively manage growth could have material adverse effects on our business, operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Environmental issues could adversely affect our business. We are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, discharge and disposal of hazardous material. Compliance with current laws and regulations has not had and is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. It is possible, however, that environmental issues may arise in the future that we cannot currently predict and which may have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. 12 Table of Contents Our stock price is volatile. The market price and trading volume of our Common Stock is subject to significant volatility and this trend may continue. The general economic, political, and stock market conditions that may affect the market prices of our Common Stock are beyond our control. The value of our Common Stock may decline regardless of our operating performance or prospects. Factors affecting market price include (but are not limited to) variations in our operating results and whether we have achieved our key business targets, the limited number of shares of our Common Stock available for purchase or sale in the public markets, sales or purchases of large blocks of stock, changes in, or failure to meet, earnings estimates, changes in securities analysts’ buy/sell recommendations, differences between reported results and those expected by investors and securities analysts and announcements of new contracts by us or our competitors. In the past, securities class action litigation has been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. We are presently a defendant in such litigation. Additionally, we are being investigated by the SEC and the U.S. Department of Justice. The outcome of these investigations could result in increased volatility of the market price of our Common Stock. See Item 3—LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. Our stock is quoted on the Pink Sheets, which may decrease the liquidity of our Common Stock. On August 29, 2006, the AMEX de-listed our Common Stock because we were not able to file certain periodic reports with the SEC in a timely manner. Since that time our Common Stock has been quoted on the Pink Sheets under the symbol “DHBT.PK.” Broker-dealers often decline to trade in Pink Sheet stocks given that the market for such securities is often limited, the stocks are more volatile, and the risk to investors is greater. Consequently, selling our Common Stock can be difficult because smaller quantities of shares can be bought and sold, transactions can be delayed and securities analyst and news media coverage of our Company may be reduced. These factors could result in lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for shares of our Common Stock as well as lower trading volume. Although we intend to apply for the listing of our Common Stock on a national securities exchange once we are current in our periodic reporting obligations with the SEC, we cannot guarantee that we will be successful in those efforts. Investors should realize that they may be unable to sell shares of our Common Stock that they purchase. Accordingly, investors must be able to bear the financial risk of losing their entire investment in our Common Stock. Our Common Stock may be subject to penny stock rules, which may make it more difficult for our stockholders to sell their Common Stock. Broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in “penny stocks” are regulated by certain penny stock rules adopted by the SEC. Penny stocks generally are equity securities with a price of less than $5.00 per share. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to purchase or sale of a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver to the customer a standardized risk disclosure document that provides information about penny stocks and the risk in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer account. In addition, the penny stock rules generally require that, prior to a transaction in a penny stock, the broker-dealer make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market of a stock that becomes subject to the penny stock rules. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have received written comments from the staff of the Division of Corporation Finance of the SEC (the “Staff”) relating to our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004, our Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2005 and our Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2005. The remaining comments 13 Table of Contents relate principally to our accounting treatment of: (i) transactions where we provided raw materials to Tactical Armor Products, Inc. for use in the manufacture of our products; (ii) cashless exercise provisions for stock options; and (iii) certain inventory charges. We have agreed with the Staff’s comments relating to these matters and we are addressing them through the financial statements and restated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For a discussion of the effects of certain corrections on our accompanying restated consolidated balance sheets and consolidated statements of operations, cash flows and stockholders’ equity for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 and a discussion of the nature of the adjustments made to the balances, please see Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, the Staff’s comments included a request that we file our June 2004 and December 2004 contracts with the U.S. Army as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. By letter dated September 7, 2007, we informed the Staff that we are contacting the appropriate U.S. Army officers to obtain complete copies of both contracts and to seek permission from the U.S. Army to publicly file these contracts or portions thereof. Accordingly, as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, this Staff comment remains unresolved. 