Item 1A. Risk Factors Trading of OPTi Common Stock on the OTC Bulletin Board Our common stock is currently traded over-OTC Bulletin Board. Some investors may be less likely to invest in stocks that are not traded on recognized national markets and listing services such as Nasdaq. Therefore, investors in our common stock may experience reduced liquidity when attempting to trade shares of our common stock. 3 Table of Contents Dependence on Intellectual Property Position The success of the Company’s current strategy of resolving potential infringement of its patented core logic technology can be affected by new developments in intellectual property law generally and with respect to semiconductor patents in particular and upon the Company’s success in defending its patent position. It is difficult to predict developments and changes in intellectual property law. However, such changes could have an adverse impact on the Company’s ability to pursue infringement claims on its previously developed technology. Uncertain Revenue Stream Royalty payments from Opti Technologies, Inc., an unrelated third party to whom the Company sold rights to its product lines in September 2002 were completed during the first quarter of 2005 when OPTi received the remaining $52,000 of revenue from the agreement. No further revenue is expected from Opti Technologies, Inc. and the Company’s future revenues, if any, depend on the success of our strategy of pursuing license claims to our intellectual property position. Although the Company has commenced legal action and continues to pursue license revenues relating to the unauthorized use of its intellectual property, there can be no assurances whether or when revenues will result from the pursuit of such claims. In addition, the Company’s focus on pursuing claims related to its intellectual property position can result in one time payments that may increase revenues during a single fiscal period but may not be repeated in future periods. For example, in the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2003, the Company reached a settlement of certain claims and counterclaims with National Semiconductor that included, among other things, a one time cash payment to the Company. Under the terms of the settlement, the Company will not receive future payments from National Semiconductor. Consequently, settlements of these claims will cause our operating results to fluctuate from period to period and revenues that we may receive from such a settlement should not be viewed as indicative of future trends in our operating results. Outcome of nVidia Legal Action On October 19, 2004, the Company announced that it has filed a complaint against nVidia Corporation (“nVidia”), in the Eastern District of Texas, for infringement of five U.S. patents relating to its “Predictive Snooping” chipset technology. See “Item 3—Legal Proceedings” below. On April 24, 2006, the United States District Court for the Western District of Texas issued a ruling in the ongoing patent infringement action between OPTi and nVidia. The ruling arises from a special proceeding required under U.S. patent law called a “Markman hearing,” where both sides present their arguments to the court as to how they believe certain claims at issue in the lawsuit should be interpreted. In the ruling, the Court largely adopted OPTi Inc’s proposed construction on at least 13 of the 15 claims at issue. The Company believes that the ruling represents a major step in OPTi’s efforts to enforce its patent portfolio and licensing efforts. If OPTi prevails at trial, which is scheduled for the week of July 10, 2006, the Company is requesting a reward for damages on the infringement of its technology and for reimbursement of its litigation expenses. The nVidia case itself is an important part of the Company’s strategy for pursuing its patent infringement claims and the Company expects that its outcome will likely have a significant effect on the Company’s intellectual property licensing efforts. Fluctuations in Operating Results The Company has experienced significant fluctuations in its operating results in the past and expects that it will experience such fluctuations in the future. In the past, these fluctuations have been caused by a variety of factors including increased competition, price competition, changes in customer demand, ability to continue to sale existing products, inventory adjustments, changes in the availability of foundry capacity, changes in the mix 4 Table of Contents of products sold and litigation expenses. In the future, the Company’s operating results will largely be dependent on its ability to generate revenue from its pursuit of license and patent infringement claims. Limited Trading Volume Daily trading volume in our shares has varied from zero to over one hundred thousand shares during the last two years. Therefore, investors in our stock may find liquidity in our shares to be limited and difficult to predict. Possible Volatility of Stock Price There can be no assurances as to the Company’s operating results in any given period. The Company expects that the trading price of its common stock will continue to be subject to significant volatility. 