Item 1A. Risk Factors Trading of OPTi Common Stock on the OTC Bulletin Board Our common stock is currently traded over-OTC Bulletin Board. Some investors may be less likely to invest in stocks that are not traded on recognized national markets and listing services such as Nasdaq. Therefore, investors in our common stock may experience reduced liquidity when attempting to trade shares of our common stock. Dependence on Intellectual Property Position The success of the Company’s current strategy of resolving potential infringement of its patented core logic technology can be affected by new developments in intellectual property law generally and with respect to semiconductor patents in particular and upon the Company’s success in defending its patent position. Proposed patent reform legislation may affect the Company’s ability to file claims for infringement of its patents and increase the time required to resolve claims that are filed. It is difficult to predict developments and changes in intellectual property law. However, such changes could have an adverse impact on the Company’s ability to pursue infringement claims on its previously developed technology. Uncertain Revenue Stream The Company no longer receives revenues from product sales and the Company’s future revenues, if any, depend on the success of our strategy of pursuing license claims to our intellectual property position. Although the Company has commenced legal action and continues to pursue license revenues relating to the unauthorized use of its intellectual property, there can be no assurances whether or when revenues will result from the pursuit of such claims. In addition, the Company’s focus on pursuing claims related to its intellectual property position can result in one time payments that may increase revenues during a single fiscal period but may not be repeated in future periods. For example, in the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2006, the Company reached a settlement of certain claims and counterclaims with nVidia Corporation that included, among other things, a one-time cash payment to the Company. Under the terms of the settlement, the Company was to receive future payments from nVidia if they continued to use the patented technology. However, nVidia informed the Company in January 2007 that it had ceased such use and we are presently investigating the claim. Consequently, settlements of claims such as the nVidia claim will cause our operating results to fluctuate from period to period and revenues that we may receive from such a settlement should not be viewed as indicative of future trends in our operating results. Outcome of AMD and Apple Legal Actions On November 15, 2006, the Company announced that it had filed a patent infringement lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas against Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (“AMD”) for 4 Table of Contents infringement of three U.S. patents relating TO ITS “Predictive Snooping” technology. See “Item 1—Legal Proceedings” below. The AMD case itself is a continuing part of the Company’s strategy for pursuing its patent infringement claims and its outcome will have a significant effect on the Company’s ability to realize ongoing licensing revenue through its intellectual property licensing efforts. On January 16, 2007, the Company announced that it had filed a patent infringement lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas against Apple Inc. (“Apple”) for infringement of three U.S. patents. The three patents at issue in the lawsuit are U.S. Patent No. 5,710,906, U.S. Patent No. 5,813,036 and U.S. Patent No. 6,405,291; all entitled “Predictive Snooping of Cache Memory for Master-Initiated Accesses”. The complaint alleges that Apple has infringed the patents by making, selling, and offering for sale desktop and portable computers and servers incorporating Predictive Snooping technology. OPTi has requested a jury trial in this matter. If the AMD and Apple legal actions are not resolved favorably, the Company may not have revenues from other sources for the foreseeable future. Outcome of Future Royalties from nVidia On August 3, 2006, the Company entered into a license and settlement agreements between the Company and nVidia. Under the agreements the Company agreed to dismiss its patent infringement lawsuit against nVidia and licensed certain patents to nVidia. nVidia made a non-refundable, non-creditable fully earned payment of $11 million to the Company. There is no future performance obligation. In accordance with the Company’s revenue recognition policy $11 million was recorded as revenue during the quarter ended September 30, 2006 as persuasive evidence of an agreement exists, delivery has occurred and there are no future performance obligations, fees are fixed or determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured. The agreement also provides that the Company shall receive quarterly royalty payments of $750,000 from nVidia, so long as nVidia continues to use the Company’s Predictive Snoop technology, commencing in February 2007 up to a maximum of 12 such payments in exchange for a license for future use of the Pre-Snoop patents. As an alternative to the quarterly payments, at any time prior to or on January 31, 2008, nVidia can elect to pay OPTi a lump sum of $7,000,000 less any quarterly royalty payments already paid. Royalties will be recorded as revenue when earned and received. On February 5, 2007 the Company announced that it had received a letter from nVidia Corporation stating that nVidia has discontinued the use of the Predictive Snooping technology that it had licensed from the Company pursuant to the terms of the license agreement between nVidia Corporation and OPTi Inc., dated August 3, 2006. The letter from nVidia also states that nVidia will not be remitting to the Company the quarterly royalty payment originally scheduled for February 2007. The Company is in discussions with nVidia as to whether nVidia is entitled to omit the February 2007 payment and has requested additional information from nVidia to validate the claim nVidia has discontinued use of the Predictive Snooping technology. If nVidia and the Company do not reach agreement that payments are owed to the Company, the Company will have no other current source of revenues and may incur additional legal costs to obtain payments it may believe are owed to it by nVidia under the settlement agreement. Fluctuations in Operating Results The Company has experienced significant fluctuations in its operating results in the past and expects that it will experience such fluctuations in the future. In the past, these fluctuations have been caused by a variety of factors including increased competition, price competition, changes in customer demand, ability to continue to sale existing products, inventory adjustments, changes in the availability of foundry capacity, changes in the mix of products sold and litigation expenses. In the future, the Company’s operating results will largely be dependent on its ability to generate revenue from its pursuit of license and patent infringement claims. 5 Table of Contents Limited Trading Volume Daily trading volume in our shares has varied from zero to over one hundred thousand shares during the last two years. Therefore, investors in our stock may find liquidity in our shares to be limited and difficult to predict. Possible Volatility of Stock Price There can be no assurances as to the Company’s operating results in any given period. The Company expects that the trading price of its common stock will continue to be subject to significant volatility. Uncertainty of Future Distributions to Shareholders From time to time, the Company has made distributions to its shareholders of funds that it believed unlikely to be required for the pursuit of its legal strategy . On April 9, 2007 the Company paid a dividend of $0.50 per share of common stock to its shareholders. Its most recent previous cash distribution had occurred in 2002. The amount and frequency of future distributions to shareholders depends upon a number of factors including the Company’s ability to achieve future revenues from its patent infringement claims, the amount of the Company’s legal, operating and compensation costs, tax treatment of such dividends and changes to the Company’s intellectual property position or strategy. Accordingly, there can be no assurance regarding the amount or frequency of future distributions or whether they may occur at all. 