Risk Factors The Company is subject to various changing competitive, economic, political, social and other risks and conditions, some of which are described below: Certain Considerations Relating to Chile. The Company is engaged in its four businesses in Chile: Wire & Cable, Brass Mills, Flexible Packaging and Aluminum Profiles. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company had Ch$74,532 million, or 51,4% of its property, plant and equipment in Chile, and derived 53.1% of its revenues, from its Chilean operations. Consequently, the Company's results of operations and financial condition are largely dependent on the overall level of economic activity in Chile. The Chilean economy has had GDP growth rates of 3.4%, 2.2%, 3.7%, 6.1% and 6.3% for the years 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. There can be no assurance regarding future rates of growth relating to the Chilean economy. Some of the factors that would be likely to have an adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations include future downturns in the Chilean economy, a return to the high inflation experienced by Chile in the 1970s and a devaluation of the Chilean peso relative to the U.S. dollar. Effects of Restrictions on Argentine Gas supply on Chilean Operations. Chile is dependent on foreign supply of energy sources such as oil, natural gas and fuel derivatives. Since 2003 the Argentine government has restricted gas exports to Chile due to supply problems in Argentina. This has affected the supply of energy to the Chilean industries. The reduction in gas supply may affect the Company's operations. While the Company has access to alternative energy sources, such as liquid gas, which reduce the impact of the restrictions imposed on the Company, the cost of such sources could be higher than the Company's current energy sources and there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to increase its selling prices in response to this potential cost increase. Therefore, any cost increase from the use of alternative energy sources could have an adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Developments in Emerging Markets May Affect the Company. Although the Company's principal businesses are in Chile, Madeco also maintains substantial assets and derives significant revenue from its operations in Brazil, Argentina and Peru. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company had Ch$36,466 million, or, 25.2% of its property, plant and equipment in Brazil, and derived 27.4% of its revenues, from its Brazilian operations. In the case of Argentina, the Company had Ch$23,088 million, or 15.9% of its property, plant and equipment in Argentina, and derived 3.7% of its revenues from its Argentine operations. In the case of Peru, the Company had Ch$10,779 million, or 7.4% of its property, plant and equipment in Peru, and derived 15.8% of its revenues from its Peruvian operations. In recent years, Argentina suffered an economic recession which culminated in a political and economic crisis with a significant currency devaluation in early 2002. The Argentine economy has since stabilized as a result of measures adopted by the Argentine government, including restrictions on bank deposits and withdrawals, exchange controls, suspension of payments of external debt and the abrogation of Argentine peso convertibility. The economic recession and crises materially affected Madeco, requiring the Company to close the majority of its operations in Argentina. In 2003, economic activity recovered across all sectors of the Argentine economy, and as a result, Madeco reopened certain of its operations at limited capacity. In 2004 and 2005, the Argentine economy grew by 9.0% and 9.2%, respectively. Although Argentina's economy has improved, the country's economic environment and political stability remain fragile. Brazil has also been affected by the general economical downturn that has affected Latin America in recent years. During 2002 the Brazilian Real devaluated 52.3% in relation to the U.S. dollar. Accordingly, in 2002 Madeco suffered a loss amounting to Ch$10,351 million as a result of this devaluation. Although consumption and investment remained low in 2003, in 2004, the Brazilian economy grew by 4.9%, due in large part, to growth of the exports and the favorable external economic scenario. In 2005, the Brazilian economy grew by 2.3%. There can be no assurance that economic growth in Brazil will continue in the future. The Peruvian economy continues to develop at a steady pace. Economic growth is likely to continue, as the country profits from increased demand for commodities in the wake of a stronger global economy: in 2004 and 2005, the Peruvian economy grew by 4.8% and 6.7%, respectively. However, Peru remains a politically unstable country. This instability could have a material adverse effect on the Peruvian economy. The economies into which Madeco exports the products it manufactures are also affected by social and political changes. There can be no assurance that political changes or political instability in the countries in which the Company operates or into which it exports its products will not materially adversely affect the Company in the future. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the economic system in Chile and the new free trade agreements, which are expected to allow the Company to export its products more readily, will be maintained in the future. Developments in Emerging Markets May Affect the Market Value of Chilean Securities. The market value of securities of Chilean companies is, to varying degrees, affected by economic and market conditions in other emerging market countries. Although economic conditions in such countries may differ significantly from economic conditions in Chile, investors' reactions to developments in any of these other countries may have an adverse effect on the market value of securities of Chilean issuers. For example, in the second half of 1998 and early 1999, prices of Chilean securities were materially adversely affected by the economic crises in Russia and Brazil. Although the negative condition of the Chilean securities market has improved since 2003, there can be no assurance that the Chilean stock market will continue to grow or even sustain its gains and that the market value of the Company's securities would not be adversely affected by events elsewhere, especially in emerging market countries. Opportunities to Secure Financing Necessary to Operate the Company's Businesses May Be Limited. In the future, the Company may need to raise funds for various purposes. Madeco was notified on July 1, 2002 that the Comisión Clasificadora de Riesgo (the "Risk Classification Commission"), which regulates the investment activities of pension funds in Chile, had ruled that as a result of the downgrading of the credit ratings of the Company's securities and the deterioration of Madeco's financial situation, Chilean pension funds were further limited in the amount of debt securities or common shares of Madeco that they could hold. Although the rating agencies have since upgraded the Company's rating and Chilean pension funds are no longer limited in the amount of debt securities or common shares of Madeco that they can hold, there can be no assurance that the Company will not be downgraded, and the holding of Madeco's securities by Chilean pension funds limited, in the future. See " Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Changes in the Company's Risk Classification". Given that Chilean pension funds together constitute the most significant investor group in Chilean securities, any action taken by the Risk Classification Commission has in the past affected and could in the future affect the price and liquidity of Madeco's common shares and bonds. There can be no assurance that capital will be available in the future as needed on reasonable terms in Chile or otherwise. An inability to obtain capital could constrain the Company's ability to refinance debt, expand sales, improve productivity or take advantage of opportunities and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The Company is Controlled by One Majority Shareholder, whose Interests May Differ from Minority Shareholders. As of March 31, 2006, the Quiñenco Group owned 47.8% of the Company's shares. Accordingly, the Quiñenco Group has the power to control the election of the majority of members of the Company's Board of Directors and its interests may differ from the interests of other holders of the Company's shares. The Quiñenco Group has a significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the shareholders for approval (and according to Rule 18.046 Ley de Sociedades Anónimas, Chilean Corporations Law), including the sale of substantial Madeco's assets and going-private transactions, and also the power to prevent or cause a change in control. The Quiñenco Group has a significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations, the sale of all or substantially all of Madeco's assets and going-private transactions, and also the power to prevent or cause a change in control. Following Madeco's Restructuring of its Indebtedness, the Company is Now More Susceptible to Interest Rate Risk. Most of Madeco's bank financial obligations have floating interest rates (based on LIBOR or TAB (the Chilean Inter-bank rate) following the Company's restructuring of its indebtedness in 2002. A substantial increase in interest rates would materially adversely affect Madeco's financial position. There can be no assurance that such a rate increase will not occur. The Price of Madeco's ADSs and the U.S. Dollar Value of Any Dividends Will Be Affected by Fluctuations in Exchange Conditions. The Company's ADSs trade in U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between certain Latin American currencies and the U.S. dollar are likely to affect the market price of the ADSs. For example, since Madeco's financial statements are reported in Chilean pesos and any dividend paid will be denominated in Chilean pesos, a decline in the value of the Chilean peso against the U.S. dollar would reduce the Company's earnings as reported in U.S. dollars and would reduce the U.S. dollar equivalent of any dividend. A devaluation of the Brazilian, Argentine or Peruvian currency versus the U.S. dollar would also reduce the Company's earnings in Chilean pesos and therefore the earnings reported in U.S. dollars. For example, given the relative importance of Brazilian operations to the Company's consolidated results, a devaluation in Brazil's currency could have a materially adverse impact on the Company's earnings. For a further discussion regarding the Company's currency exchange rate risk, see "Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk - Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk". Holders of ADSs May be Subject to Certain Risks. Due to the fact that holders of ADSs do not hold their shares directly, they are subject to the following additional risks: In the event of a dividend or other distribution, if exchange rates fluctuate during any period of time when the ADS depositary cannot convert a foreign currency into dollars, the ADS holders may lose some or all of the value of the distribution. There can be no assurance that the ADS depositary will be able to convert any currency at a specific exchange rate or sell any property, rights, shares or other securities at a specific price, or that any of such transactions can be completed within a specific time period. In order to vote at shareholders' meetings, ADS holders not registered on the books of the ADS depositary are required to transfer their ADSs for a certain number of days before a shareholders' meeting into a blocked account established for that purpose by the ADS depositary. Any ADS transferred to this blocked account will not be available for transfer during that time. ADS holders who are registered on the books of the ADS depositary must give instructions to the ADS depositary not to transfer their ADSs during this period before the shareholders' meeting. ADS holders must therefore receive voting materials from the ADS depositary sufficiently in advance in order to make these transfers or give these instructions. There can be no guarantee that ADS holders will receive voting materials in time to instruct the ADS depositary how to vote. It is possible that ADS holders, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right t o vote at all. Additionally, ADS holders may not receive copies of all reports from Madeco or the ADS depositary. Holders may have to go to the ADS depositary's offices to inspect any reports issued. In the event the Company fails to meet any of the continued listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange, or "NYSE", the Company's ADSs may become subject to delisting at the option of NYSE. In 2002 the Company was not in compliance with NYSE's minimum security price and minimum market capitalization continued listing requirements. On June 21, 2003 the Company regained compliance with both the minimum security price and the minimum market capitalization requirements. The Company has maintained its compliance status during 2005 and for the first quarter 2006. There can be no assurance that the Company will not fail to meet the NYSE continued listing requirements in the future. See "Item 9. The Offer and Listing - Offer and Listing Details". Copper Supply and Price Levels. Copper is the primary raw material used by the Company, and the Company's results of operations are heavily dependent on its ability to buy an adequate supply of copper. Prices for copper are affected by numerous factors outside the Company's control and have historically fluctuated greatly. Cochilco, a governmental entity, guarantees and regulates the supply of copper to all domestic copper manufacturers in Chile according to the Ley de Reserva del Cobre, or the Copper Reserve Law. On an annual basis, all Chilean copper purchasers must inform Cochilco of their estimated copper requirements for the upcoming year. Cochilco assigns the domestic copper demand to the various mining companies and establishes conditions for the sale of copper including price levels, which reflect London Metal Exchange ("LME") prices adjusted for reduced transportation and related insurance costs. Cochilco establishes the terms of the annual copper supply contracts between the copper producers and manufacturers such as the Company. Under this current system, copper purchases are made on a monthly basis, and payments are required prior to delivery. Over the past 10 years, the Company has not experienced any difficulty in obtaining adequate supplies of copper at satisfactory prices under these arrangements. There can be no assurances, however, that the Company will continue to be able to obtain its required copper at satisfactory prices, if at all. In Peru, the Company obtains the majority of its copper needs from local mining companies. The copper obtained is used by its investee (Cobrecón S.A.), which produces copper rod for the Company's requirements in Peru. In Brazil, the Company purchases its copper rod requirements from both its Peruvian and Chilean copper rod production companies and from an unrelated third party (Caraiba Metais do Brasil). There can be no assurance that all the copper rod requirements in Brazil will be fullfilled, since a portion of the Company's requirements are obtained from a third party. Copper Reserve Law. A long-standing project exists to study a possible modification or elimination of the Copper Reserve Law. While the Company is not able to predict when and how the law may be modified, if at all, a modification could provide a significant change in the relationship between Madeco and its copper suppliers. In the event that the Copper Reserve Law is abolished, Madeco could have the opportunity to negotiate the sales conditions of its copper purchases directly with the domestic copper producers, and the resulting contracts may be more or less favorable than under actual conditions in terms of volume commitment requirements, payment terms and/or penalties. Fluctuations in London Metal Exchange Prices of Copper and Aluminum. Historically, international prices of both copper and aluminum have fluctuated greatly. The Company's price policy is to sell its copper and aluminum products based on the quantity of metal contained in each of them, and the metal is valued at the London Metals Exchange, or "LME", prices. The Company generally has been able to increase its selling prices in response to increases in costs of copper and/or aluminum. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company will be able to recover increases in the cost of copper and/or aluminum in the future. There is also risk exposure associated with the copper and aluminum inventories kept by the Company exclusively for the fabrication of its products. Sharp drops in prices for these raw materials can cause the Company significant losses in its financial statements due to lower inventory value. Company earnings can also be negatively affected by reductions in prices for copper and aluminum due to the difficulty in passing on the higher purchase prices of current metal inventories to the customer. In addition, there could be a fall in demand as customers wait for lower prices before issuing their purchase orders. The historical prices of these metals have experienced wide fluctuations, which are influenced by a great number of factors beyond the Company's control. Dependence on Several Raw Material Suppliers. The Company is dependent on a limited number of suppliers for the procurement of copper and aluminum. The Company believes that its contracts and other agreements with third-party suppliers contain standard and customary terms and conditions. During the past ten years, the Company has experienced no substantial difficulties in obtaining adequate supplies of necessary raw materials at satisfactory prices, since these raw materials are commodities that can be acquired from various multinational suppliers. If the Company experiences difficulties in obtaining raw materials from suppliers in the future it would adversely affect the Company's ability to operate its business. Concentration of Customer Base. Over the past decade, there has been consolidation within the various industries to which the Company sells its products. As a result, the Company's larger customers are now both fewer in number and more powerful in their ability to demand favorable sales conditions from Madeco such as prices and payment terms. This development could potentially put downward pressure on the Company's selling prices and margins. See "Item 4. Information on the Company - Business Overview". Demand for Telecommunications Cable has Significantly Decreased and is not Expected to Recover to Previous Levels. Despite significant demand in 2000 and 2001 by the telecommunications, or "telecom", industry for both copper and fiber optic cable, demand for these products which are manufactured by the Company have since significantly diminished. For a further discussion of this decrease in demand, see "Item 4. Information on the Company - Business Overview - Wire & Cable -Wire & Cable - Summary of Sales." The Company does not expect the demand for these products by the telecom industry to recover in the foreseeable future and there can be no assurance that the demand for these products will increase to previous levels or at all. Operations are Subject to Environmental Laws and Regulations. Madeco's operations are subject to laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment in the various jurisdictions in which the Company operates, such as regulations regarding the release of copper, aluminum or plastics dust into the air. Stricter laws and regulations, or stricter interpretations of existing laws or regulations, may impose new liabilities on the Company or result in the need for additional investments in pollution control equipment, either of which could result in a material adverse effect on Madeco's profitability. 