Item 1A. Risk Factors Trading of OPTi Common Stock on the OTC Bulletin Board Our common stock is currently traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. Some investors may be less likely to invest in stocks that are not traded on recognized national markets and listing services such as NASDAQ. Therefore, investors in our common stock may experience reduced liquidity when attempting to trade shares of our common stock. Dependence on Intellectual Property Position The success of the Company’s current strategy of resolving potential infringement of its patented core logic technology can be affected by new developments in intellectual property law generally and with respect to semiconductor patents in particular and upon the Company’s success in defending its patent position. It is difficult to predict developments and changes in intellectual property law. However, such changes could have an adverse impact on the Company’s ability to pursue infringement claims on its previously developed technology. Uncertain Revenue Stream Although the Company has commenced legal action and continues to pursue license revenues relating to the unauthorized use of its intellectual property, there can be no assurances whether or when revenues will result from the pursuit of such claims. In addition, the Company’s focus on pursuing claims related to its intellectual property position can result in one time payments that may increase revenues during a single fiscal period but may not be repeated in future periods. For example, in the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2006, the Company reached a settlement of certain claims and counterclaims with NVIDIA that included, among other things, a one-time cash payment to the Company. Under the terms of the settlement, the Company was to receive future payments from NVIDIA if they continued to use the patented technology. Consequently, settlements of these claims will cause our operating results to fluctuate from period to period and revenues that we may receive from such a settlement should not be viewed as indicative of future trends in our operating results. 4 Table of Contents Outcome of Apple and NVIDIA Legal Actions On January 16, 2007, the Company filed a patent infringement lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas against Apple for infringement of three U.S. patents. The three patents at issue in the lawsuit are U.S. Patent No. 5,710,906, U.S. Patent No. 5,813,036 and U.S. Patent No. 6,405,291, which are all entitled “Predictive Snooping of Cache Memory for Master-Initiated Accesses”. The Company alleged that Apple infringed the patents by making, selling, and offering for sale desktop and portable computers and servers incorporating Predictive Snooping technology. On April 23, 2009 a jury from the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas ruled in OPTi’s favor in the patent infringement action between OPTi and Apple. The jury ruled on the following four issues: • In the matter of willful infringement, the jury ruled that Apple willfully infringed OPTi’s patents; • In the matter of Apple’s defense that OPTi’s patents were invalid due to obviousness, the jury ruled that OPTi’s patent was patents were valid; • In the matter of Apple’s defense that the patents were invalid due to anticipation, the jury ruled that OPTi’s Patents were valid; • In the matter of damages, the jury awarded OPTi $19 million for Apple’s infringement of OPTi’s patents. The court had ruled previously that Apple had infringed the OPTi patents at issue on April 3, 2009. Apple filed a number of post-trial motions seeking to reverse the jury verdict or to secure a new trial on a variety of issues. On December 3, 2009, the court issued the final judgment in the patent infringement action between OPTi and Apple. The court ordered that OPTi recover from Apple a reasonable royalty of $19.0 million in actual damages. The court also awarded an additional $2.7 million in pre-judgment interest for a total award of $21.7 million. The court also found that there was no willful infringement in the case and denied any request for reimbursement of attorney fees. Both parties in the case have filed for appeal and we are awaiting a date for the appellate court case. On December 10, 2009, the Company initiated an arbitration against NVIDIA because the Company believes that NVIDIA continues to use the Pre-Snoop technology in breach of the terms of the license agreement entered into between NVIDIA and the Company dated August 3, 2006. The Company is seeking payment of the additional quarterly royalty payments it is entitled to under the terms of the license agreement. The outcome in the Apple and NVIDIA legal actions will have significant effects on the Company’s ability to realize ongoing license revenue. Third Party Intellectual Property Infringement Claims The PC industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights or positions, which may result in significant protracted expensive litigation. There can be no assurance that additional infringement, invalidity, right to use or ownership claims by third parties or claims for indemnification resulting from infringement claims will be asserted in the future. If any other claims or actions are asserted against the Company, the Company may seek to obtain a license under a third party’s intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance, however, that a license will be available under reasonable terms or at all. The failure to obtain a license under a patent or intellectual property right from a third party for technology used by the Company could cause the Company to incur substantial liabilities and adversely affect the Company’s pursuit of its own patent infringement claims. In addition, should the Company decide to litigate the claims, such litigation could be extremely expensive and time consuming and could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, regardless of the outcome of the litigation. 5 Table of Contents Fluctuations in Operating Results The Company has experienced significant fluctuations in its operating results in the past and expects that it will experience such fluctuations in the future. In the past, these fluctuations have been caused by a variety of factors including increased competition, price competition, changes in customer demand, ability to continue to sell existing products, inventory adjustments, changes in the availability of foundry capacity, and changes in the mix of products sold and litigation expenses. In the future, the Company’s operating results will largely be dependent on its ability to generate revenue from its pursuit of license and patent infringement claims. Limited Trading Volume Daily trading volume in our shares has varied from zero to over one hundred thousand shares during the last two years. Therefore, investors in our stock may find liquidity in our shares to be limited and difficult to predict. Possible Volatility of Stock Price There can be no assurances as to the Company’s operating results in any given period. The Company expects that the trading price of its common stock will continue to be subject to significant volatility. Uncertainty of Future Distributions to Shareholders From time to time, the Company has made distributions to its shareholders of funds that it believed unlikely to be required for the pursuit of its legal strategy. On April 9, 2007 the Company paid a dividend of $0.50 per share of common stock to its shareholders. Its most recent previous cash distribution had occurred in 2002. The amount and frequency of future distributions to shareholders depends upon a number of factors including the Company’s ability to achieve future revenues from its patent infringement claims, the amount of the Company’s legal, operating and compensation costs, tax treatment of such dividends and changes to the Company’s intellectual property position or strategy. Accordingly, there can be no assurance regarding the amount or frequency of future distributions or whether they may occur at all. 