Item 1A. Risk Factors Deregistration of Shares Under the 1934 Act As noted above the Company has decided to deregister its common stock under the 1934 Act to reduce cash expenses and because its business operations have been substantially concluded. The Company intends to file a Form 15 with the SEC on or about July 12, 2013, and upon filing the Company’s reporting obligations would be immediately suspended. The Company’s common stock would be deregistered 90 days later unless the SEC determines otherwise. During such 90 day period the Company’s obligations to file proxy statements as well as reporting obligations under Section 13(d), 13(g) and Section 16 of the 1934 Act continue. After suspension of its reporting obligations, the Company would file no further reports with the SEC. Although the Company would cease to file periodic reports under the 1934 Act, it will (but is not obligated to) post financial and other information on its website. Currently, the Company’s shares are traded on the OTC Bulletin Board as well as the OTC Market. The OTC Bulletin Board would likely de-list the Company’s shares once it ceases to file reports with the SEC, but its shares may continue to trade on the OTC Market. Shareholders may experience a loss of liquidity as a result of deregistration and/or de-listing. In addition, the Company’s decision to deregister its shares may result in a drop in the trading price of its common stock. Shareholder and Third Party Actions While the Company’s shareholders have approved the Plan of Liquidation, there can be no assurances that the Company’s shareholders and/or third parties will not take actions that may delay or derail the Company’s winding up and dissolution. For example, on February 9, 2012, a class action was filed in Federal District Court for the Northern District of California alleging that the directors of the Company breached their fiduciary duties in approving the Plan of Liquidation and violated Section 14 (a) of the 1934 Act and Rule 14a-9 in allegedly issuing a consent solicitation statement with the intention of obtaining shareholder approval. The complaint also alleged that the Company aided and abetted the directors’ breach of fiduciary duty. The Company believes that this action was without merit. The complaint was voluntarily dismissed without prejudice on February 24, 2012, but other actions could be taken by the same plaintiff or others. Defending such actions could reduce the assets of the Company available for distribution to its shareholders. 5 Challenges to Plan of Liquidation Despite the approval of the Company’s shareholders of the Plan of Liquidation, certain shareholders may attempt to challenge implementation of the Plan. In addition, shareholders may petition a California Superior Court to take jurisdiction over the dissolution of the Company, resulting in uncertainty as to the method and timing of the Company’s dissolution and future distributions. There can be no assurance that the dissolution will proceed smoothly or on time as a result of future events. Uncertainty of Future Distributions to Shareholders The amount and frequency of future distributions to shareholders depend upon a number of factors including, but not limited to, the Company’s ability to achieve future revenues from its pending patent infringement litigation against VIA and the amount of the Company’s liquidation costs. Certain shareholders may attempt to challenge implementation of the Plan, as indicated by the litigation noted above. Accordingly, there can be no assurance regarding the amount or frequency of future distributions or whether they may occur at all. Since the Company must maintain adequate reserves in order to pursue the pending VIA litigation and defend itself and its directors against new litigation, the Company may not be able to make further distributions to shareholders. Takeover Attempts Since the Company’s only assets are cash and the pending VIA litigation, the Company may become a target for potential takeover attempts. However, the Company believes that pursuant to applicable California law, any attempt to reverse the Company’s election to wind up and dissolve after payment of the liquidating distribution on July 3, 2012 would be very difficult, if not impossible, to achieve. Change of Control As previously disclosed, S. Muoio & Co. LLC and certain private investment vehicles and managed accounts for which SMC acts as general partner and/or investment manager (collectively, “SMC”) have acquired a controlling interest in the Company. The Board of Directors of the Company increased the Board’s size from four to five directors and submitted three candidates for the Board, including Mr. Salvatore Muoio, the managing member of S. Muoio & Co. LLC. The three candidates submitted by S. Muoio & Co., Ltd were elected to serve as board members at the annual shareholders’ meeting, which was held on December 13, 2012. As a result of its share ownership and Board representation, SMC, and Mr. Muoio as a result of his status as the managing member of SMC, may have the capacity to influence or control decisions of the Board of Directors of the Company. The Shareholder Return Bonus set forth in the employment Agreements of Messrs. Marren and Mazzoni terminated effective on the Change of Control of the Company as defined therein. Lengthy Winding-Up Period The Company’s final liquidating distribution, if any, is not anticipated to be made until after final resolution of the VIA litigation. Aside from recovering damages in that litigation, the Company does not anticipate any revenue during the Company’s winding up period. However, the Company may be subject to claims during the winding up period which may adversely affect future distributions to shareholders. 6 Possible Changes In Winding-Up Period The Company anticipates that dissolution will be complete on or about March 31, 2016. The duration of the liquidation period was determined in light of the Company’s ongoing litigation against VIA, as the Board was concerned with the Company having sufficient time to prosecute such litigation. It is possible that appeals could delay the conclusion of such litigation beyond March 31, 2016, necessitating the extension of the liquidation period. However, it is also possible in light of the favorable verdict that the litigation could be resolved earlier resulting in a shorter liquidation period and reduced expenses associated therewith. Shareholders Liability for Debts Not Paid or Provided For Shareholders may be liable for claims with respect to the Company’s debts and liabilities which were not paid or adequately provided for, even if such debts and liabilities are unknown. Shareholder liability is limited to the lesser of each shareholder’s pro rata share of the claim or to the amount of corporate assets distributed to it. Claims against shareholders may be commenced before the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations or within 4 years of the Company’s final dissolution, whichever is earlier. No Additional Infringement Claims As noted below, the Company has recently obtained a verdict in its last remaining legal action, and the Company does not anticipate initiating any other infringement claims in the future. See “Legal Proceedings” below. Final Resolution of Litigation Cannot be Predicted On May 31, 3013, the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas issued the following verdict in the patent infringement action between the Company and VIA: • The court determined that VIA infringed claim 26 of U.S. Patent No. 5,710,906 and the jury failed to find any of the asserted claims are invalid. Therefore, the court ordered that OPTi recover from VIA a reasonable royalty of $2.1 million in actual damages. • The court also found that there was no willful infringement in the case and denied any request for the reimbursement of attorney fees. The VIA action is expected to be the final action brought by the Company. Despite the verdict, it is possible that the Company’s litigation against VIA may ultimately be unsuccessful on appeal, and the Company’s remaining assets could be substantially depleted in pursuing such litigation. OTC Bulletin Board As noted above the Company has decided to deregister its common stock under the 1934 Act. The OTC Bulletin Board will likely de-list the Company’s shares when it ceases to file reports with the SEC. 7 Limited Trading Volume Daily trading volume in our shares has varied from zero to over one hundred thousand shares during the last two years. Therefore, investors in our stock may find liquidity in our shares to be limited and difficult to predict. Liquidity in the Company’s shares may be further reduced due to the Company’s announcement of its liquidation, payment of the initial liquidating distribution, recent acquisition of control of the Company by one of its shareholders and/or by its recent decision to deregister its common stock under the 1934 Act. Volatility of Stock Price There can be no assurances as to the Company’s financial results in any given period. The Company expects that the trading price of its common stock will continue to be subject to significant volatility, particularly in light of its deregistration with the SEC and likely delisting with the OTC Bulletin Board. 