Item 1A. Risk Factors Trading of OPTi Common Stock on the OTC Bulletin Board Our common stock is currently traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. Some investors may be less likely to invest in stocks that are not traded on recognized national markets and listing services such as NASDAQ. Therefore, investors in our common stock may experience reduced liquidity when attempting to trade shares of our common stock. 4 Table of Contents Dependence on Intellectual Property Position The success of the Company’s current strategy of resolving potential infringement of its patented core logic technology can be affected by new developments in intellectual property law generally and with respect to semiconductor patents in particular and upon the Company’s success in defending its patent position. It is difficult to predict developments and changes in intellectual property law. However, such changes could have an adverse impact on the Company’s ability to pursue infringement claims on its previously developed technology. The Company’s Pre-Snoop patented technology was originally filed with the United States Patent and Trademark Office (“USPTO”) in July 1995 and all three patents in this technology will expire in July 2015. The Company’s Compact ISA technology was originally filed in February 1996 with the USPTO and the three patents relating to this technology will expire in February 2016. The Company continues to explore potential new infringers of its patented technology in both the Pre-Snoop and Compact ISA technology but can make no assurances that it will be successful in finding additional infringers. Uncertain Revenue Stream Although the Company has commenced legal action and continues to pursue license revenues relating to the unauthorized use of its intellectual property, there can be no assurances whether or when revenues will result from the pursuit of such claims. In addition, the Company’s focus on pursuing claims related to its intellectual property position can result in one time payments that may increase revenues during a single fiscal period but may not be repeated in future periods. For example, in the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2006, the Company reached a settlement of certain claims and counterclaims with NVIDIA that included, among other things, a one-time cash payment to the Company. Under the terms of the settlement, the Company was to receive future payments from NVIDIA if they continued to use the patented technology. Consequently, settlements of these claims will cause our operating results to fluctuate from period to period and revenues that we may receive from such a settlement should not be viewed as indicative of future trends in our operating results. Outcome of VIA and SIS Legal Actions On July 30, 2010, the Company filed a patent infringement lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas against VIA and System Integrated Systems Corp. (“SIS”) for infringement of two U.S. patents. The two patents at issue in the lawsuit are U.S. Patent No. 5,710,906 and U.S. Patent No. 6,405,291, which are all entitled “Predictive Snooping of Cache Memory for Master-Initiated Accesses”. The Company alleged that VIA and SIS infringed the patents by making, selling, and offering for sale desktop and portable computers and servers incorporating Predictive Snooping technology. The outcome in the VIA and SIS legal actions will have significant effects on the Company’s ability to realize ongoing license revenue. Third Party Intellectual Property Infringement Claims The PC industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights or positions, which may result in significant protracted expensive litigation. There can be no assurance that additional infringement, invalidity, right to use or ownership claims by third parties or claims for indemnification resulting from infringement claims will be asserted in the future. If any other claims or actions are asserted against the Company, the Company may seek to obtain a license under a third party’s intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance, however, that a license will be available under reasonable terms or at all. The failure to obtain a license under a patent or intellectual property right from a third party for technology used by the 5 Table of Contents Company could cause the Company to incur substantial liabilities and adversely affect the Company’s pursuit of its own patent infringement claims. In addition, should the Company decide to litigate the claims, such litigation could be extremely expensive and time consuming and could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, regardless of the outcome of the litigation. Fluctuations in Operating Results The Company has experienced significant fluctuations in its operating results in the past and expects that it will experience such fluctuations in the future. In the past, these fluctuations have been caused by a variety of factors including the ability to license its technology, cost of infringement analysis and litigation expenses. In the future, the Company’s operating results will largely be dependent on its ability to generate revenue from its pursuit of license and patent infringement claims. Limited Trading Volume Daily trading volume in our shares has varied from zero to over one hundred thousand shares during the last two years. Therefore, investors in our stock may find liquidity in our shares to be limited and difficult to predict. Possible Volatility of Stock Price There can be no assurances as to the Company’s operating results in any given period. The Company expects that the trading price of its common stock will continue to be subject to significant volatility. Uncertainty of Future Distributions to Shareholders From time to time, the Company has made distributions to its shareholders of funds that it believed unlikely to be required for the pursuit of its legal strategy. On August 12 and December 15, 2010, the Company paid cash dividends of $0.75 and $0.65 per share, respectively, on each share of the Company’s common stock. Its most recent previous cash distribution had occurred in 2007. The amount and frequency of future distributions to shareholders depends upon a number of factors including the Company’s ability to achieve future revenues from its patent infringement claims, the amount of the Company’s legal, operating and compensation costs, tax treatment of such dividends and changes to the Company’s intellectual property position or strategy. Accordingly, there can be no assurance regarding the amount or frequency of future distributions or whether they may occur at all. 