Item 1A. Risk Factors Shareholder and Third Party Actions While the Company’s shareholders have approved the Plan of Liquidation, there can be no assurances that the Company’s shareholders and/or third parties will not take actions that may delay or derail the Company’s winding up and dissolution. For example, on February 9, 2012 a class action was filed in Federal District Court for the Northern District of California alleging that the directors of the Company breached their fiduciary duties in approving the Plan of Liquidation and violated Section14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 14a-9 in allegedly issuing a consent solicitation statement with the intention of obtaining shareholder approval. The complaint also alleged that the Company aided and abetted the directors’ breach of fiduciary duty. The Company believes that this action was without merit. The complaint was voluntarily dismissed without prejudice on February 24, 2012, but other actions could be taken by the same plaintiff or others. Defending such actions could reduce the assets of the Company available for distribution to its shareholders. Challenges to Plan of Liquidation Despite the approval of the Company’s shareholders of the Plan of Liquidation, certain shareholders may attempt to challenge implementation of the Plan. In addition, shareholders may petition a California Superior Court to take jurisdiction over the dissolution of the Company, resulting in uncertainty as to the method and timing of the Company’s dissolution and future distributions. There can be no assurance that the dissolution will proceed smoothly or on time as a result of future events. Uncertainty of Future Distributions to Shareholders The amount and frequency of future distributions to shareholders depend upon a number of factors including, but not limited to, the Company’s ability to achieve future revenues from its pending patent infringement litigation and the amount of the Company’s operating costs. Certain shareholders may attempt to challenge implementation of the Plan, as indicated by the litigation noted above. Accordingly, there can be no assurance regarding the amount or frequency of future distributions or whether they may occur at all. PAGE 5 TABLE OF CONTENTS Takeover Attempts Since the Company’s only assets are cash and the pending litigation, the Company may become a target for potential takeover attempts. However, the Company believes that pursuant to applicable California law, any attempt to reverse the Company’s election to wind up and dissolve after the initial liquidating distribution would be very difficult, if not impossible, to achieve. Lengthy Winding-Up Period The Company’s final liquidating distribution is not anticipated to be made until on or about March 31, 2016. Aside from potentially prevailing in its pending litigation against VIA and SIS referred to below, the Company does not anticipate any revenue during the Company’s winding up period. However, the Company is subject to claims, both known and unknown, during the winding up period which may adversely affect future distributions to shareholders. Shareholders Liability for Debts Not Paid or Provided For Shareholders may be liable for claims with respect to the Company’s debts and liabilities which were not adequately paid or provided for, even if such debts and liabilities are unknown. Shareholder liability is limited to the lesser of each shareholder’s pro rata share of the claim or to the amount of corporate assets distributed to it. Claims against shareholders may be commenced before the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations or within 4 years of the Company’s final dissolution, whichever is earlier. Uncertain Outcome of VIA and SIS Legal Actions On August 2, 2010, the Company announced that it had filed a patent infringement lawsuit on July 30, 2010, in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas against VIA Technologies, Inc. (“VIA”) and Silicon Integrated Systems Corp. (“SIS”) for infringement of two U.S. patents. The two patents at issue in the lawsuit are U.S. Patent No. 5,710,906 and U.S. Patent No. 6,405,291; both entitled “Predictive Snooping of Cache Memory for Master-Initiated Accesses”. The complaint alleges that VIA and SIS infringe the patents by making, selling, and offering for sale CPUs and core logic products based on and incorporating Predictive Snooping technology and inducing and contributing to the infringement of the patents by others. OPTi has requested a jury trial in this matter. The Company, in its case against VIA and SIS, is seeking damages or other monetary relief, including pre-judgment interest and awarding OPTi’s attorney fees. A trial date has been set for May 2013. The outcome in the VIA and SIS legal actions could have significant effects on the Company’s distributions to its shareholders which cannot be predicted. No Additional Infringement Claims Likely As noted above, the Company has only one legal action pending, and the Company does not anticipate initiating any other infringement claims in the future. Uncertain Revenue Stream Although the Company has commenced legal action against VIA and SIS relating to the unauthorized use of its intellectual property, there can be no assurances whether or when revenues will result from the pursuit of such claims. It is possible the Company’s announced liquidation could negatively affect the amount and timing of recovery on such claims. PAGE 6 TABLE OF CONTENTS OTC Bulletin Board The Company’s common stock is currently traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. Some investors may be less likely to invest in stocks that are not traded on recognized national markets and listing services such as NASDAQ. Therefore, investors in our common stock may experience reduced liquidity when attempting to trade shares of our common stock. Approval of the Plan of Liquidation could also reduce liquidity in the Company’s common stock because investors may not be interested in buying shares of a company in liquidation with limited future prospects. Limited Trading Volume Daily trading volume in our shares has varied from zero to over one hundred thousand shares during the last two years. Therefore, investors in our stock may find liquidity in our shares to be limited and difficult to predict. Liquidity in the Company’s shares may be further reduced due to the Company’s announcement of its liquidation and payment of the initial liquidating distribution. Volatility of Stock Price There can be no assurances as to the Company’s operating results in any given period. The Company expects that the trading price of its common stock will continue to be subject to significant volatility. It is likely that the Company’s planned distribution will result in a reduction in the trading price of its common stock. 