Risk Factors The Company is subject to various changing competitive, economic, political, social and other risks and conditions, some of which are described below: Our Business is Concentrated in Chile. The Company is engaged in its three businesses in Chile: Brass Mills, Flexible Packaging and Profiles. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company had Ch$460,894 million, or 83.6% of its property, plant and equipment in Chile, and derived 59.5% of its revenues (excluding the sales of the Wire & Cable unit) or 37.4% of its revenues (including the sales of the Wire & Cable unit) from its Chilean operations. Consequently, the Company’s results of operations and financial condition are largely dependent on the overall level of economic activity in Chile. According to the Central Bank of Chile’s 2009 statistics, the Chilean economy has had GDP growth rates of 6.0%, 5.6%, 4.6%, 4.7% and 3.2% for the years 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. There can be no assurance that economic growth in Chile will continue in the future.. Some of the factors that would be likely to have an adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations include future downturns in the Chilean economy, a return to the high inflation experienced by Chile in the 1970s and a devaluation of the Chilean peso relative to the U.S. dollar. Effects of Argentine Gas Supply Restrictions and Price Increases on Chilean Operations. Chile is dependent on foreign supply of energy sources such as oil, natural gas and fuel derivatives. Since 2003, the Argentine government has restricted gas exports to Chile due to supply problems in Argentina. This has affected the supply of energy to Chilean industries. The reduction in gas supply may affect the Company’s operations. While the Company has access to alternative energy sources, such as liquid gas or diesel oil, which reduce the impact of the restrictions imposed on the Company, the cost of such sources has been higher than natural gas and there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to increase its selling prices in response to this potential cost increase. In addition, there can be no assurance that gas prices will not continue to rise. Therefore, any additional cost increase from the use of gas and alternative energy sources could have an adverse effec t on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Despite the restrictions mentioned before, the adverse dependence effect may decline after a new plant of Natural liquid Gas begins its operations in the second half of the year 2009 (project related to BG Group) . Developments in the Region May Affect the Company. Although the Company’s principal businesses are in Chile, Madeco also maintains substantial assets and derives significant revenues from its operations in Argentina and Peru (before the sale of its Wire & Cable unit in September 2008, the Company also maintained facilities in Brazil and Colombia). For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company had Ch$1,203 million, or, 0.2% of its property, plant and equipment in Brazil (assets for disposal), and derived 0.0% of its revenues (excluding the sales of the Wire & Cable unit) or 24.1% of its revenues (including the sales of the Wire & Cable unit) from its Brazilian operations. In the case of Argentina, the Company had Ch$38,380 million, or 7.0% of its property, plant and equipment in Argentina, and derived 15.8% of its revenues (excluding the sales of the Wire & Cable unit) or 8.2% of its revenues (including the sales of the Wire & Cable unit) from it s Argentine operations. The Company had not operations in Colombia by the end of the year, but derived 3.1% of its revenues if the sales of the Wire & Cable are included. In the case of Peru, the Company had Ch$51,161 million, or 9.3% of its property, plant and equipment in Peru, and derived 24.7% of its revenues (excluding the sales of the Wire & Cable unit) or 27.1% of its revenues (including the sales of the Wire & Cable unit) from its Peruvian operations. In recent years, Argentina suffered an economic recession which culminated in a political and economic crisis with significant currency devaluation in early 2002. The Argentine economy has since stabilized as a result of measures adopted by the Argentine government, including restrictions on bank deposits and withdrawals, exchange controls, suspension of payments of external debt and the abrogation of Argentine peso convertibility. The economic recession and crisis materially affected Madeco, requiring the Company to close the majority of its operations in Argentina. In 2003, economic activity recovered across all sectors of the Argentine economy, and as a result, Madeco reopened certain of its operations at limited capacity. In 2007 and 2008, the Argentine economy grew by 8.6% and 7.0%, respectively. Although Argentina’s economy has improved, the country’s economic environment and political stability remain fragile. The Peruvian economy continues to develop at a steady pace. Economic growth is likely to continue, as the country profits from increased demand for commodities in the global economy. In 2007 and 2008, the Peruvian economy grew by 9.0% and 9.8%, respectively, as a result of strong domestic demand which outpaced GDP growth. The economies to which Madeco exports the products it manufactures are also affected by social and political changes. There can be no assurance that political changes or political instability in the countries in which the Company operates or to which it exports its products will not materially adversely affect the Company in the future. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the economic system in Chile and the free trade agreements, which are expected to allow the Company to export its products more readily, will be maintained in the future. Market and Exchange Rate Volatility of Nexans Investment In accordance with the implementation of IFRS the investment in Nexans was recognized as an financial investment. Stock market and/or exchange rate volatility may adversely affect the value of this investment. If the Company’s management has sufficient evidence of deterioration in either market value or exchange rate an impairment may be applied to Nexans investment, reducing its value and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition. Developments in Emerging Markets May Affect the Market Value of Chilean Securities. The market value of securities of Chilean companies is, to varying degrees, affected by economic and market conditions in other emerging market countries. Although economic conditions in such countries may differ significantly from economic conditions in Chile, investors’ reactions to developments in any of these other countries may have an adverse effect on the market value of securities of Chilean issuers. For example, in the second half of 1998 and early 1999, prices of Chilean securities were materially adversely affected by the economic crises in Russia and Brazil. Although the performance of the Chilean securities market has improved since 2003, there can be no assurance that the Chilean stock market will continue to grow or even sustain its gains and that the market value of the Company’s securities would not be adversely affected by events elsewhere, especially in emerging market countries. Opportunities to Secure Financing Necessary to Operate the Company’s Businesses May Be Limited. In the future, the Company may need to raise funds for various purposes. Madeco was notified on July 1, 2002 that the Comisión Clasificadora de Riesgo (the “Risk Classification Commission”), which regulates the investment activities of pension funds in Chile, had ruled that as a result of the downgrading of the credit ratings of the Company’s securities and the deterioration of Madeco’s financial situation, Chilean pension funds were further limited in the amount of debt securities or common shares of Madeco that they could hold. Although the rating agencies have since upgraded the Company’s rating and Chilean pension funds are no longer limited in the amount of debt securities or common shares of Madeco that they can hold, there can be no assurance that the Company will not be downgraded, and the holding of Madeco’s securiti es by Chilean pension funds limited, in the future. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Changes in the Company’s Risk Classification”. Given that Chilean pension funds together constitute the most significant investor group in Chilean securities, any action taken by the Risk Classification Commission has in the past affected and could in the future affect the price and liquidity of Madeco's common shares and bonds. There can be no assurance that capital will be available in the future as needed on reasonable terms in Chile or otherwise. An inability to obtain capital could constrain the Company’s ability to refinance debt, expand sales, improve productivity or take advantage of business opportunities and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company is Controlled by One Majority Shareholder, whose Interests May Differ from Minority Shareholders. As of March 31, 2009, the Quiñenco Group owned 47.7% of the Company’s shares. Accordingly, the Quiñenco Group has the power to control the election of the majority of members of the Company’s board of directors (the “Board of Directors” or the “Board”) and its interests may differ from the interests of other holders of the Company’s shares. The Quiñenco Group has a significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the shareholders for approval (and according to Rule 18.046 Ley de Sociedades Anónimas, Chilean Corporations Law), including mergers, consolidations, the sale of substantial Madeco's assets and going-private transactions, and also the power to prevent or cause a change in control. A failure in our information technology infrastructure or applications could negatively affect our business. The Company depends on information technology to record customer’s orders, manufacture and ship products in a timely manner, and maintain the financial accuracy of our business records. Madeco is in the process of developing and implementing a global Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system that will redesign and organize new processes and a common information system in the Flexible Packaging and Profiles units over the upcoming years (which has already been implemented in the Brass Mills unit). There can be no assurance that this system will deliver the expected benefits. The failure to achieve this system implementation may impact our ability to process transactions accurately and efficiently, and remain in line with the changing needs of the trade, which could result in the loss of sales and/or customers. In addition, the failure to either deliver the applica tion on time, or anticipate the necessary readiness and training needs, could lead to business disruptions and loss of customers and revenue. Finally, malfunction or abandonment of the ERP system could result in a write-off of part or all of the costs that have been capitalized on the implementation plan. We May Be Subject to the Registration Requirements of the Investment Company Act. The Company may be deemed to be an investment company under the United States Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Company Act”) and suffer adverse consequences as a result. A company may, among other reasons, be deemed to be an investment company if it owns investment securities with a value exceeding 40% of its total assets, subject to certain exclusions. The Company consummated the sale of its Wire & Cable business unit to Nexans for 2,500,000 shares of Nexans’ capital stock and cash, as disclosed elsewhere in this Annual Report. The Nexans stock as well as any investments the Company may make with the cash proceeds received from the sale may constitute investment securities under the Investment Company Act. These investment securities could exceed 40% of the Company’s total assets. If this were to occur, and an e xclusion from registration or a safe harbor were not available to the Company, the Company may be deemed an investment company and be subject to the registration requirements of the Investment Company Act. If the Company is required to register and does not register, it will be prohibited from issuing securities and accessing the U.S. capital or bank markets unless it took action to reduce its investment securities as a percentage of its total assets. Although the Company Believes it May Be a Passive Foreign Investment Company (a “PFIC”) for its Current Taxable Year Ending December 31, 2009, this Conclusion is Subject to Some Uncertainty. The Company believes that it may also have been a PFIC for its taxable year ending December 31, 2008. Even if it was not previously a PFIC, the Company may be a PFIC now that it has concluded the sale of its Wire & Cable business unit to Nexans, as disclosed elsewhere in this Annual Report. In general, the Company will be a PFIC if either (i) at least 75% of the gross income of the Company for the taxable year is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the value (determined on the basis of a quarterly average) of the Company’s assets is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. Cash and investment securities are passive assets. If the Company owns less than 25% by value of the stock of another corporation, th at stock will constitute a passive asset. If the Company is treated as a PFIC, a U.S. Holder may be subject to materially adverse tax treatment with respect to gain realized on the sale or other disposition of shares or ADSs or certain “excess distributions”. Although a U.S. holder of shares or ADSs in a PFIC can sometimes avoid the rules described above by electing to treat the company as a “qualified electing fund”, the Company does not intend to comply with the requirements necessary to permit a U.S. Holder to make this election. A U.S. Holder may be able to make a mark-to-market election if the Company’s stock is treated as regularly traded on a registered national securities exchange or other exchange to the extent permitted by the Internal Revenue Service, or “IRS”. See “Taxation—United States Tax Considerations”. U.S. Holders are urged to consult their own tax advisors concerning the U.S. federal income tax consequences of holding shares or A DSs if the Company is or becomes a PFIC. The Company is Susceptible to Interest Rate Risk. Part of Madeco’s bank financial obligations has floating interest rates based on LIBOR or TAB (the Chilean Inter-bank rate). A substantial increase in interest rates would materially adversely affect Madeco’s financial position. There can be no assurance that such a rate increase will not occur. The Price of Madeco’s ADSs and Any Dividends Will Be Affected by Fluctuations in Exchange Conditions. The Company’s ADSs trade in U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between certain Latin American currencies and the U.S. dollar are likely to affect the market price of the ADSs. For example, since Madeco’s financial statements are reported in Chilean pesos and any dividend paid will be denominated in Chilean pesos, a decline in the value of the Chilean peso against the U.S. dollar would reduce the Company’s earnings as reported in U.S. dollars and would reduce the U.S. dollar equivalent of any dividend. A devaluation of the Argentine or Peruvian currencies versus the U.S. dollar would also reduce the Company’s earnings in Chilean pesos and therefore the earnings reported in U.S. dollars. For a further discussion regarding the Company’s currency exchange rate risk, see “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk — Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk”. Holders of ADSs May be Subject to Certain Risks. Due to the fact that holders of ADSs do not hold their shares directly, they are subject to the following additional risks: In the event of a dividend or other distribution, if exchange rates fluctuate during any period of time when the ADS depositary cannot convert a foreign currency into dollars, the ADS holders may lose some or all of the value of the distribution. There can be no assurance that the ADS depositary will be able to convert any currency at a specific exchange rate or sell any property, rights, shares or other securities at a specific price, or that any of such transactions can be completed within a specific period of time. In order to vote at shareholders’ meetings, ADS holders not registered on the books of the ADS depositary are required to transfer their ADSs for a certain number of days before a shareholders’ meeting into a blocked account established for that purpose by the ADS depositary. Any ADS transferred to this blocked account will not be available for transfer during that time. ADS holders who are registered on the books of the ADS depositary must give instructions to the ADS depositary not to transfer their ADSs during this period before the shareholders’ meeting. ADS holders must therefore receive voting materials from the ADS depositary sufficiently in advance in order to make these transfers or give these instructions. There can be no guarantee that ADS holders will receive voting materials in time to instruct the ADS depositary how to vote. It is possible that ADS holders, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the oppo rtunity to exercise a right to vote at all. Additionally, ADS holders may not receive copies of all reports from Madeco or the ADS depositary. Holders may have to go to the ADS depositary’s offices to inspect any reports issued. In the event the Company fails to meet any of the continued listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange, or “NYSE”, the Company’s ADSs may become subject to delisting at the option of NYSE. In 2002, the Company was not in compliance with NYSE’s minimum security price and minimum market capitalization continued listing requirements. On June 21, 2003, the Company regained compliance with both the minimum security price and the minimum market capitalization requirements. The Company has maintained its compliance status during 2007 and for the first quarter of 2008. There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to meet the NYSE continued listing requirements in the future. See “Item 9. The Offer and Listing — Offer and Listing Details”. Copper Supply and Price Levels. Copper is one of the primary raw materials used by the Company, and the Company’s results of operations are heavily dependent on its ability to buy an adequate supply of copper. Prices for copper are affected by numerous factors outside the Company’s control and have historically fluctuated greatly. The Corporación Chilena del Cobre (Chilean Copper Corporation, “Cochilco”), a governmental entity, guarantees and regulates the supply of copper to all domestic copper manufacturers in Chile according to the Ley de Reserva del Cobre, or the Copper Reserve Law. On an annual basis, all Chilean copper purchasers must inform Cochilco of their estimated copper requirements for the upcoming year. Cochilco assigns the domestic copper demand to the various mining companies and establishes conditions for the sale of copper including price levels, which reflect London Metal Exchange (“LME”) prices adjusted for reduced transportation and related insurance costs. Cochilco establishes the terms of the annual copper supply contracts between the copper producers and manufacturers such as the Company. Under this current system, copper purchases are made on a monthly basis, and payments are required prior to delivery. Over the past 10 years, the Company has not experienced any difficulty in obtaining adequate supplies of copper at satisfactory prices under these arrangements. There can be no assurances, however, that the Company will continue to obtain its required copper at satisfactory prices, if at all. Copper Reserve Law. In 2006, the Chilean Congress set aside a long-standing initiative started in 1996 to abolish the Copper Reserve Law. Currently, there are no initiatives to change the existing law. Fluctuations in London Metal Exchange Prices of Copper and Aluminum. Historically, international prices of both copper and aluminum have fluctuated greatly. The Company’s price policy is to sell its copper and aluminum products based on the quantity of metal contained in each of them, and the metal is valued at the London Metals Exchange, or “LME”, prices. The Company generally has been able to increase its selling prices in response to increases in costs of copper and/or aluminum. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company will be able to recover increases in the cost of copper and/or aluminum in the future. There is also risk exposure associated with the copper and aluminum inventories that kept by the Company exclusively for the fabrication of its products and are not hedged. Sharp drops in prices for these raw materials can cause the Company significant losses in its financial statements due to lower inventory value. Company earnings can also be negatively affected by reductions in prices for copper and aluminum due to the difficulty in passing on the higher purchase prices of current metal inventories to customers. In addition, there could be a decline in demand as customers wait for lower prices before issuing their purchase orders. The historical prices of these metals have experienced wide fluctuations, which are influenced by a great number of factors beyond the Company’s control. Dependence on Several Raw Material Suppliers. The Company is dependent on a limited number of suppliers for the procurement of copper and aluminum. The Company believes that its contracts and other agreements with third-party suppliers contain standard and customary terms and conditions. During the past ten years, the Company has experienced no substantial difficulties in obtaining adequate supplies of necessary raw materials at satisfactory prices, since these raw materials are commodities that can be acquired from various multinational suppliers. If the Company experiences difficulties in obtaining raw materials from suppliers in the future it would adversely affect the Company’s ability to operate its business. Demand for Copper Pipes has Persistently Decreased. In spite of the strong demand for copper pipes prior to the year 2000, plastics pipes have increasingly become competitive substitutes for copper pipes due to the increasing price of copper. As the market share for plastic pipes has increased, the sales volume of the Brass Mills business unit has decreased, see “Item 4. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Brass Mills — PBS – Summary of Sales”. The Company believes that this product substitution effect will not decline. Concentration of Customer Base. Over the past decade, there has been consolidation within the various industries to which the Company sells its products. As a result, the Company’s larger customers are now both fewer in number and more powerful in their ability to demand favorable sales conditions from Madeco such as prices and payment terms. This development could potentially put downward pressure on the Company’s selling prices and margins. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — Business Overview”. Operations are Subject to Environmental Laws and Regulations. Madeco’s operations are subject to laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment in the various jurisdictions in which the Company operates, such as regulations regarding the release of copper, aluminum or plastics dust into the air. Stricter laws and regulations, or stricter interpretations of existing laws or regulations, may impose new restrictions on the Company or result in the need for additional investments in pollution control equipment, either of which could result in a material adverse effect on Madeco’s profitability. The Final Purchase Price Nexans Will Pay for Madeco’s Wire Cable Unit is Uncertain. On September 30, 2008 the company concluded the sale of its Wire & Cable unit’s assets to Nexans. Pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement, Madeco received in exchange a US$393 million cash payment (US$448 million minus minority interest, working capital and financial debt) plus 2.5 million shares of Nexans stock (with an approximate market value of US$218 million, representing 8.9% of Nexans’ share capital). The amount of the cash payment was subject to adjustment to reflect any differences between the pro-forma financial statements as of September 30, 2008, and the accounting books at the end of the same period. In order to fund such adjustment, Madeco opened an escrow account of US$37 million for the benefit of Nexans. On November 12, 2008, Nexans sent a letter to Madeco summarizing the accounts, as of September 30, 2008, of the companies sold and providing Nexa ns’ estimate of the necessary adjustment to the cash payment amount. Madeco responded with a letter dated November 26, 2008, expressing its disagreement with respect to the amounts held in the accounts, as well as the basis for determining those amounts, and therefore to Nexans’ estimate of the necessary adjustment to the cash payment. If differences persist, the materials in question should be submitted to arbitration and resolution of External Auditors pursuant to conditions stablished on the purchase agreement. Due to these external factors Madeco cannot state with any level of certainty a final transaction price. Madeco Expects to Delist its ADS from The New York Stock Exchange and May Deregister Under the Exchange Act. Due to the high cost of complying with U.S. reporting obligations and small percentage of Madeco’s outstanding shares that are held as ADSs on The New York Stock Exchange and the low number of U.S. holders of Madeco’s ADSs, Madeco’s Board of Directors resolved on June 22, 2009 to delist its ADSs from The New York Stock Exchange and to deregister Madeco under the Exchange Act if it meets the criteria for deregistration set forth by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Madeco expects that the liquidity of its ADSs will decrease as a result of the delisting and if it deregisters investors will have less information about the company available to it. Madeco intends to maintain its listing on the Chilean stock exchange and to provide the information and disclosure required under Chilean law. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk. Exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk relates to the Company’s positions held in cash and cash equivalents, bank debt, bonds and other assets and liabilities indexed to currencies other than Chilean pesos. In accordance with Technical Bulletin 64 issued by the Chilean Association of Accountants (“BT64”), most investments in foreign companies, as well as various liabilities associated with these foreign investments, should be considered as a net U.S. dollar exposure. With respect to the Company’s foreign investment exposure, gains and losses from exchange rate variations are recorded directly to the cumulative adjustment from foreign currency translation account included in other reserves in shareholders’ equity, without impacting the Company’s income statement. For further information, see “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk — Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk.” 