Item 1A. Risk Factors In evaluating our business, you should consider the following discussion of risks, in addition to other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as our other public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects and, as a result, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our common stock. We are still a development stage company. We have never had any revenues from sales of products. None of our drug candidates has been approved for commercial sale and we do not expect that any of our present or future drug candidates will be commercially available for a number of years, if at all. We have incurred losses since our inception and we expect to continue to incur significant additional operating losses for the foreseeable future as we fund clinical trials and other expenses in support of regulatory approval of our drug candidates. We need to raise additional money before we achieve profitability; if we fail to raise additional money, it could be difficult or impossible to continue our business. As of December 31, 2011, our unrestricted cash and cash equivalents totaled approximately $1.5 million. In addition, subject to certain limitations, beginning January 1, 2012, and continuing until the Qualifying Transaction closes or until Amun exercises its put right, $200,000 per month will be disbursed to us from the Escrow account. Based on our current plans, these disbursements should be sufficient to meet our monthly operating expenses and capital requirements until such funds are depleted. As of January 15, 2012, the balance of the Escrow account was approximately $2.28 million. Further, if the Qualifying Transaction is consummated, we believe that our capital resources, together with interest thereon, would be sufficient to meet our operating expenses and capital requirements through 2013. If the Escrow account is not available to us, based on our current plans, we believe our unrestricted cash and cash equivalents, and interest earned thereon, would be sufficient to meet our operating 19 expenses and capital requirements for several months. However, changes in our research and development plans or other events affecting our operating expenses could result in the expenditure of such cash before that time. We will require substantial additional funds in order to finance our drug discovery and development programs, fund operating expenses, pursue regulatory clearances, develop manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities, and prosecute and defend our intellectual property rights. We may seek additional funding through public or private financing or through collaborative arrangements with strategic partners. You should be aware that in the future: • we may not obtain additional financial resources when necessary or on terms favorable to us, if at all; the escrow funds may not be available to us; the Qualifying Transaction may not be consummated; and • any available additional financing may not be adequate. If we cannot raise additional funds when needed, or on acceptable terms, we will not be able to continue to develop our drug candidates. We may need to liquidate the Company in a voluntary dissolution under Delaware law or seek protection under the provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, and in either event, it is unlikely that stockholders would receive any value for their shares. We have not generated any revenues from product sales, and have incurred losses in each year since our inception in 1994. If a Qualifying Transaction is not consummated, we expect that it will be very difficult to raise capital to continue our operations and our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an opinion with an explanatory paragraph to the effect that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern in the annual report for the period ended December 31, 2011. If a Qualifying Transaction is not consummated, we do not believe that we could succeed in raising additional capital needed to sustain our operations without some strategic transaction, such as a partnership or merger. If we are unable to consummate such a transaction, we expect that we would need to cease all operations and wind down. Although we are currently evaluating our strategic alternatives with respect to all aspects of our business, we cannot assure you that any actions that we take would raise or generate sufficient capital to fully address the uncertainties of our financial position. As a result, we may be unable to realize value from our assets and discharge our liabilities in the normal course of business. If we are unable to settle our obligations to our creditors or if we are unable to consummate a strategic transaction, we would likely need to liquidate the Company in a voluntary dissolution under Delaware law or seek protection under the provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. In that event, we, or a trustee appointed by the court, may be required to liquidate our assets. In either of these events, we might realize significantly less from our assets than the values at which they are carried on our financial statements. The funds resulting from the liquidation of our assets would be used first to satisfy obligations to creditors before any funds would be available to pay our stockholders, and any shortfall in the proceeds would directly reduce the amounts available for distribution, if any, to our creditors and to our stockholders. In the event we are required to liquidate under Delaware law or the federal bankruptcy laws, it is highly unlikely that stockholders would receive any value for their shares. See “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 1 to our financial statements. We may be unable to obtain a quorum for meetings of our stockholders or obtain necessary stockholder approvals and therefore be unable to take certain actions Our bylaws require that a quorum, consisting of a majority of the outstanding shares of voting stock, be present in person or by proxy in order to transact business at a meeting of our stockholders. In addition, amendments to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, such as an amendment to increase our authorized capital stock, require the approval of a majority of our outstanding shares. Under Rule 452 of the New York Stock Exchange, the U.S. broker-dealer may vote shares absent direction from the beneficial owner on certain matters, such as an amendment to our amended and restated articles of incorporation to increase authorized shares that are to be used for general corporate purposes and the ratification of our auditors. As a result, unless more stockholders elect to be present in person or by proxy in future annual or special meetings of stockholders, we may be unable to obtain a quorum at such meetings or obtain stockholder approval of proposals when needed. 20 If we are unable to obtain a quorum at a meeting of our stockholders and thus fail to get stockholder approval of corporate actions, such failure could have a materially adverse effect on us. In addition, brokers may only vote on those matters for which broker discretionary voting is allowed under Rule 452 of the New York Stock Exchange, and we may not be able to obtain the required number of votes to approve certain proposals that require a majority of all outstanding shares to approve the proposal due to our reliance on broker discretionary voting. Therefore, it is possible that even if we are able to obtain a quorum for our meetings of the stockholders we still may not receive enough votes to approve proxy proposals presented at such meeting and, depending on the proposal in question, such failure could have a material adverse effect on us. If we do not obtain government regulatory approval for our products, we cannot sell our products and we will not generate revenues. Our principal efforts are currently centered on a proprietary class of small compounds that we believe shows promise for the treatment of several diseases and disorders. However, all drug candidates require approval by the United States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) before they can be commercialized in the United States as well as approval by various foreign government agencies before they can be commercialized in other countries. These regulations change from time to time and new regulations may be adopted. While limited clinical trials of our drug candidates have been conducted to date, significant additional trials are required, and we may not be able to demonstrate that our drug candidates are safe or effective. In addition, success in early development does not mean that later development will be successful because, for example, drug candidates in later-stage clinical trials may fail to demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy despite having progressed through initial clinical testing. Our clinical experience with our drug candidates is limited, and to date our drug candidates have been tested in less than the number of patients that will likely need to be studied to gain regulatory approval. The data collected from clinical trials with larger patient populations may not demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to support regulatory approval of these drug candidates. In addition, we do not know whether early results from any of our ongoing clinical trials will be predictive of final results of any such trial. If we are unable to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of a particular drug candidate to the satisfaction of regulatory authorities, the drug candidate will not obtain required government approval and we will experience potentially significant delays in, or be required to abandon development of the drug candidate. If we do not receive FDA or foreign approvals for our drug candidates, we will not be able to sell products and will not generate revenues. If we receive regulatory approval of one of our drug candidates, such approval may impose limitations on the indicated uses for which we may market the resulting product, which may limit our ability to generate significant revenues. Further, U.S. or foreign regulatory agencies could change existing, or promulgate new, regulations at any time, which may affect our ability to obtain approval of our drug candidates or require significant additional costs to obtain such approvals. In addition, if regulatory authorities determine that we or a partner conducting research and development activities on our behalf have not complied with regulations in the research and development of one of our drug candidates, then they may not approve the drug candidate and we will not be able to market and sell it. If we were unable to market and sell our drug candidates, our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Recent publicity concerning the safety of certain drug products has resulted in heightened scrutiny by the FDA in the process of approving new drugs, which could delay or limit any regulatory approvals we may obtain for our drug candidates. In light of widely publicized events concerning the safety risk of certain drug products, the FDA, members of Congress, the Government Accountability Office, medical professionals and the general public have raised concerns about potential drug safety issues. These events have resulted in the withdrawal of drug products, revisions to drug labeling that further limit use of the drug products and establishment of risk management programs that may, for instance, restrict distribution of drug products after approval. In addition, the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, or FDAAA, grants significant expanded authority to the FDA, much of which is aimed at improving the safety of drug products before and after approval. In particular, the new law authorizes the FDA to, among other things, require post-approval studies and clinical trials, mandate changes to drug labeling to reflect new safety information and require risk evaluation and mitigation strategies for certain drugs, including certain currently approved drugs. It also significantly expands the federal government’s clinical trial registry and results databank, which we expect will result in significantly increased government oversight of clinical trials. Under the FDAAA, companies that violate these and other provisions of the new law are subject to substantial civil monetary penalties, among other regulatory, civil and criminal penalties. The increased attention to drug safety issues may result in a more cautious approach by the FDA in its review of data from our clinical trials. Data from clinical trials may receive greater scrutiny, particularly with respect to safety, which may make the FDA or other regulatory authorities more likely to require additional preclinical studies or clinical trials by drug development companies. As a result, the FDA may require us to conduct additional preclinical studies or clinical trials during the clinical development of one or more of our drug candidates as a condition precedent to approval which could potentially delay our development plans, limit the indications for which our drug candidates are ultimately approved, and otherwise adversely impact us. 21 If we do not successfully commercialize our products, we may never achieve profitability. We have experienced significant operating losses to date because of the substantial expenses we have incurred to acquire and fund development of our drug candidates. We have never had significant operating revenues and have never commercially introduced a product. Our accumulated deficit was approximately $262 million as of December 31, 2011. Our net losses for fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009 were approximately $3.8 million, $6.6 million and $15.6 million, respectively. Many of our research and development programs are at an early stage. Potential drug candidates are subject to inherent risks of failure. These risks include the possibilities that no drug candidate will be found safe or effective, meet applicable regulatory standards or receive the necessary regulatory clearances. Even if we were ultimately to receive regulatory approval for one or more of our drug candidates, we may be unable to commercialize them successfully for a variety of reasons. These include, for example, the availability of alternative treatments, lack of cost effectiveness, the cost of manufacturing the product on a commercial scale, the effect of competition with other drugs, or because we may have inadequate financial or other resources to pursue one or more of our drug candidates through commercialization. If we are unable to develop safe, commercially viable drugs, we may never achieve profitability. If we become profitable, we may not remain profitable. As a result of our intensely competitive industry, we may not gain enough market share to be profitable. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive. We have numerous competitors in the U.S. and elsewhere. Because we are pursuing potentially large markets, our competitors include major multinational pharmaceutical companies, specialized biotechnology firms as well as academic institutions, government agencies and private and public research institutions. Several of these entities have already successfully marketed and commercialized products that will compete with our drug candidates, assuming that our drug candidates gain regulatory approval. A large number of companies including Merck & Co., Inc., GlaxoSmithKline, Takeda Pharmaceuticals, Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc., AstraZeneca, Novartis, Novo Nordisk, Pfizer Inc., Sanofi-Aventis and Eli Lilly and Co. are developing and marketing new drugs for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. Similarly, a large number of companies, including Merck & Co., Inc., Pfizer Inc., Johnson & Johnson Inc. and Amgen Inc., are developing and marketing new drugs for the treatment of chronic inflammatory conditions. In addition, there are also a number of other companies with drug candidates in development targeting late-stage prostate cancer, including compounds already in Phase 3 clinical trials. One or more such compounds may be approved before any of our drug candidates could potentially be approved. Many, if not all, of these competing drug development programs are being conducted by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies with considerably greater financial resources, human resources and experience than ours. All of these competitors have greater financial and other resources, larger research and development staffs and more effective marketing and manufacturing organizations than we do. In addition, academic and government institutions have become increasingly aware of the commercial value of their research findings. These institutions are now more likely to enter into exclusive licensing agreements with commercial enterprises, including our competitors, to develop and market commercial products. Our competitors may succeed in developing or licensing technologies and drugs that are more effective, or less costly than any we are developing. Our competitors may succeed in obtaining FDA or other regulatory approvals for drug candidates before we do. If competing drug candidates prove to be more effective or less costly or better-marketed than our drug candidates, our drug candidates, even if approved for sale, may not be able to compete successfully with our competitors’ existing products or new products under development. Similarly, we cannot predict whether any of our drug candidates, if approved, will have sufficient advantages to cause healthcare professionals to adopt our products over competing products. If we are unable to compete successfully, we may never be able to sell enough products at a price sufficient to permit us to generate profits. Our common stock has a very limited trading market Our common stock was recently delisted from the NASDAQ Stock Market and the OTC Bulletin Board (“OTCBB”) and now trades on the OTC Markets Group, Inc., informally known as “Pink Sheets®.” The Company’s common stock was delisted from the NASDAQ Stock Market at the opening of business on September 23, 2010 at which time the common stock became available for trading on the OTCBB. On August 17, 2011, our common stock 22 was delisted from the OTCBB as a result of our filing a Form 15 pursuant to Rule 12g-4(a)(i), and subsequently became available for trading on the Pink Sheets® under the trading symbol HRBR.PK. The Pink Sheets® is not a stock exchange or a regulated entity. Price quotations are provided by over-the-counter market makers and company information is provided by the over-the-counter companies. The Pink Sheets® provide significantly less liquidity than the NASDAQ stock market or any other national securities exchange. The quotation of our common stock on the Pink Sheets® may reduce the price of our common stock. Further, the quotation of our common stock on the Pink Sheets® may materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us or at all. In addition, trading in our common stock has historically been extremely limited. Further, our common stock may be subject to manipulation because of the thinness of the market for our stock. This limited trading may adversely affect the liquidity of our common stock, not only in terms of the number of shares that can be bought and sold at a given price, but also through delays in the timing of transactions and reduction in security analysts’ and the media’s coverage of us. As a result, there could be a larger spread between the bid and the ask prices of our common stock and you may not be able to sell shares of our common stock when or at prices you desire. We have deregistered our common stock under the Exchange Act, which could negatively affect the liquidity and trading prices of our common stock and result in less disclosure about the Company. We have deregistered our common stock under the Exchange Act. By deregistering, our obligations to file reports with the SEC (including periodic reports, proxy statements, and tender offer statements) ceased and we expect that there will be a substantial decrease in the liquidity in our common stock even though stockholders may still continue to trade our common stock on the Pink Sheets®. In addition, companies with common stock quoted on the Pink Sheets® are not required to meet the reporting requirements set forth under the Exchange Act. There can be no assurances that we will provide financial information to allow for public trading of our common stock on the Pink Sheets®, or that market makers will continue to make a market in our common stock. As a result, investors may find it more difficult to dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our common stock, and the ability of our stockholders to sell our securities in the secondary market may be materially limited. Substantial sales of our stock may impact the market price of our common stock. As evidenced by the completion of our registered direct offering completed in June 2010, future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, including shares that we may issue upon exercise of options and warrants or conversion of convertible securities, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Further, if we raise additional funds through the issuance of common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock, the percentage ownership of our stockholders will be reduced and the price of our common stock may fall. Issuing preferred stock with rights senior to those of our common stock could adversely affect holders of common stock. Our charter documents give our board of directors the authority to issue shares of preferred stock without a vote or action by our stockholders. The board also has the authority to determine the terms of preferred stock, including price, preferences and voting rights. The rights granted to holders of preferred stock may adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock. For example, a series of preferred stock may be granted the right to receive a liquidation preference – a pre-set distribution in the event of liquidation – that would reduce the amount available for distribution to holders of common stock. In addition, the issuance of the Series A Preferred Stock makes it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. As a result, common stockholders could be prevented from participating in transactions that would offer an optimal price for their shares. If we were to lose the services of members of our management team, or fail to attract or retain qualified personnel in the future, our business objectives would be more difficult to implement, adversely affecting our operations. Our ability to successfully implement our business strategy depends upon the continued services of our management team. If we lose the services of one or more of these individuals, replacement could be difficult and may take an extended period of time and could impede significantly the achievement of our business objectives. 23 Our results of operations and liquidity needs could be materially negatively affected by market fluctuations and economic downturn. Our results of operations could be materially negatively affected by economic conditions generally, both in the U.S. and elsewhere around the world. Continuing concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a declining residential real estate market in the U.S. have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the markets going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, precipitated an economic recession from which the global economy is in stages of recovery. Domestic and international equity markets continue to experience heightened volatility and turmoil. These events and the continuing market upheavals may have an adverse effect on us. In the event of a market downturn, our results of operations could be adversely affected by those factors in many ways, including making it more difficult for us to raise funds if necessary and our stock price may further decline. Failure to protect our proprietary technology could impair our competitive position. We own or have obtained a license to a number of U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and defend patent rights and other intellectual property rights that are important to our ability to commercialize our drug candidates, if approved and our ability to operate our business without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We place considerable importance on obtaining patent protection for significant new technologies, products and processes. Legal standards relating to the validity of patents covering pharmaceutical and biotechnology inventions and the scope of claims made under such patents are still developing. In some of the countries in which we intend to market our drug candidates, if approved, pharmaceuticals are either not patentable or have only recently become patentable. Past enforcement of intellectual property rights in many of these countries has been limited or non-existent. Future enforcement of patents and proprietary rights in many other countries may be problematic or unpredictable. Moreover, the issuance of a patent in one country does not assure the issuance of a similar patent in another country. Claim interpretation and infringement laws vary by nation, so the extent of any patent protection is uncertain and may vary in different jurisdictions. Our domestic patent position is also highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. The applicant or inventors of subject matter covered by patent applications or patents owned by or licensed to us may not have been the first to invent or the first to file patent applications for such inventions. Due to uncertainties regarding patent law and the circumstances surrounding our patent applications, the pending or future patent applications we own or have licensed may not result in the issuance of any patents. Existing or future patents owned by or licensed to us may be challenged, infringed upon, invalidated, found to be unenforceable or circumvented by others. Further, any rights we may have under any issued patents may not provide us with sufficient protection against similar competitive products or technologies that do not infringe our patents or otherwise cover commercially valuable products or processes. Litigation or other disputes regarding patents and other proprietary rights may be expensive, cause delays in bringing products to market and harm our ability to operate. The manufacture, use or sale of our drug candidates may infringe on the patent rights of others. If we are unable to avoid infringement of the patent rights of others, we may be required to seek a license, defend an infringement action or challenge the validity of the patents in court. Patent litigation is costly and time consuming and can preclude, delay or suspend commercialization of our drug candidates. We may not have sufficient resources to bring these actions to a successful conclusion. In addition, if we do not obtain a license, develop or obtain non-infringing technology, or fail to successfully defend an infringement action or have the patents we are alleged to infringe declared invalid, we may: • incur substantial money damages; • encounter significant delays in bringing our drug candidates to market; • be precluded from participating in the manufacture, use or sale of our drug candidates or methods of treatment without first obtaining licenses to do so; and/or • not be able to obtain any required license on favorable terms, if at all. In addition, if another party claims the same subject matter or subject matter overlapping with the subject matter that we have claimed in a U.S. patent application or patent, we may decide or be required to participate in interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office in order to determine the priority of invention. Loss of such an interference proceeding would deprive us of patent protection sought or previously obtained and could prevent us from commercializing our products. Participation in such proceedings could result in substantial costs, whether or not the eventual outcome is favorable. These additional costs could adversely affect our financial results. 24 Litigation may be expensive and time consuming and may adversely affect our operations. From time to time, we may be involved in litigation relating to claims arising out of our operations in the normal course of business. Participation in such proceedings is time consuming and could result in substantial costs, whether or not the eventual outcome is favorable. These additional costs could adversely affect our financial results. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. In order to protect our proprietary technology and processes, we also rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators and sponsored researchers and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. Existing and/or future pricing regulations and reimbursement limitations may limit our potential profits from the sale of our products. The requirements governing product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary widely from country to country. Some countries require approval of the sale price of a drug before it can be marketed. In many countries, the pricing review period begins after product-licensing approval is granted. As a result, we may obtain regulatory approval for a drug candidate in a particular country, but then be subject to price regulations that reduce our profits from the sale of the product. In some foreign markets pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to continuing government control even after initial marketing approval. In addition, certain governments may grant third parties a license to manufacture our product without our permission. Such compulsory licenses may be on terms that are less favorable to us and would likely have the effect of reducing our revenues. Varying price regulation between countries can lead to inconsistent prices and some re-selling by third parties of products from markets where products are sold at lower prices to markets where those products are sold at higher prices. Any practice of exploiting price differences between countries could undermine our sales in markets with higher prices and reduce the sales of our future products, if any. While we do not have any applications for regulatory approval of our drug candidates currently pending, any decline in the size of the markets in which we may in the future sell commercial products, assuming our receipt of the requisite regulatory approvals, could cause the perceived market value of our business and the price of our common stock to decline. Our ability to commercialize our drug candidates successfully also will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the cost of our drug candidates and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. If we succeed in bringing any of our drug candidates to the market, such drug candidates may not be considered cost effective and reimbursement may not be available or sufficient to allow us to sell such drug candidates on a profitable or competitive basis. Delays in the conduct or completion of preclinical or clinical studies or the analysis of the data from preclinical or clinical studies may result in delays in our planned filings for regulatory approvals, or adversely affect our ability to enter into collaborative arrangements. The current status of our two lead drug candidates is set forth below. We have completed: • Phase I and I/II clinical trials with Triolex in the United States under an IND, for the treatment of metabolic disorders; 25 • Phase IIa clinical trial with Triolex in the United States in type 2 diabetes patients under an IND for the treatment of metabolic disorders; • Phase I/II clinical trial with Triolex in the United States under an IND for the treatment of gastrointestinal inflammatory conditions; • Phase I clinical trial with Triolex in the United States in rheumatoid arthritis patients under an IND for the treatment of inflammatory conditions; and • Phase I/IIa clinical trial with Apoptone in the United States in late-stage prostate cancer patients who have failed hormone therapy and at least one round of chemotherapy treatment or have not received chemotherapy under an IND for the treatment of hormone-sensitive cancers including prostate cancer. Any of the following reasons, among others, could delay or suspend the completion of our future studies: • delays in enrolling volunteers; • interruptions in the manufacturing of our drug candidates or other delays in the delivery of materials required for the conduct of our studies; • we may not be able to enter collaborative arrangements besides the CIPI agreements; • we can not control the uncertainties and lack direct control over the developments of our licensed compounds in China; • lower than anticipated retention rate of volunteers in a clinical trial; • unfavorable efficacy results; • serious side effects experienced by study participants relating to the drug candidate; • reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations and clinical trial sites; • failure to conduct a clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or clinical protocols; • inspection of a clinical trial operations or clinical trial site by regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold; • new communications from regulatory agencies about how to conduct these studies; or • failure to raise additional funds resulting in lack of adequate funding to continue a clinical trial or study. If the manufacturers of our drug candidates do not comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices regulations, or cannot produce sufficient quantities of our drug candidates to enable us to continue our development, we will fall behind on our business objectives. Manufacturers producing our drug candidates must follow current Good Manufacturing Practices regulations enforced by the FDA and foreign equivalents. If a manufacturer of our drug candidates does not conform to current Good Manufacturing Practices regulations and cannot be brought up to such a standard, we will be required to find alternative manufacturers that do conform. This may be a long and difficult process, and may delay our ability to receive FDA or foreign regulatory approval of our drug candidates. We also rely on our manufacturers to supply us with a sufficient quantity of our drug candidates to conduct clinical trials. If we have difficulty in the future with obtaining our required quantity and quality of supply, we could experience significant delays in our development programs and regulatory process. Our ability to achieve any significant revenue may depend on our ability to establish effective sales and marketing capabilities. Our efforts to date have focused on the development and evaluation of our drug candidates. As we continue preclinical and clinical studies and seek to commercialize our drug candidates, we may need to build a sales and marketing infrastructure. As a company, we have no experience in the sales and marketing of pharmaceutical products. If we fail to establish a sufficient marketing and sales force or to make alternative arrangements to have our drug candidates marketed and sold by others on attractive terms, it will impair our ability to commercialize our drug candidates and to enter new or existing markets. Our inability to effectively enter these markets would materially and adversely affect our ability to generate significant revenues. 26 We may face product liability claims related to the use or misuse of our drug candidates, which may cause us to incur significant losses. We are currently exposed to the risk of product liability claims due to administration of our drug candidates in clinical trials, since the use or misuse of our drug candidates during a clinical trial could potentially result in injury or death. If we are able to commercialize our products, we will also be subject to the risk of losses in the future due to product liability claims in the event that the use or misuse of our commercial products results in injury or death. We currently maintain liability insurance on a claims-made basis. Because we cannot predict the magnitude or the number of claims that may be brought against us in the future, we do not know whether the insurance policies’ coverage limits are adequate. The insurance is expensive, difficult to obtain and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. Any claims against us, regardless of their merit, could substantially increase our costs and cause us to incur significant losses. Our securities could be subject to extreme price fluctuations that could adversely affect your investment. The market prices for securities of life sciences companies are highly volatile particularly those that are not profitable. Publicized events and announcements, most of which we cannot control, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, which has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile. For example: • biological or medical discoveries by competitors; • public concern about the safety of our drug candidates; • delays in the conduct or analysis of our preclinical or clinical studies; • unfavorable results from preclinical or clinical studies; • delays in obtaining or failure to obtain purchase orders of our drug candidates; • announcements in the scientific and research community; • changes in the potential commercial markets for our drug candidates; • unfavorable developments concerning patents or other proprietary rights; • unfavorable domestic or foreign regulatory or governmental developments or actions; • broader economic, industry and market trends unrelated to our performance; • issuances of new equity securities by us, pursuant to our effective shelf registration statement or otherwise; • discussion of us or our stock price by the financial and scientific press and in online investor communities; or • additions or departures of key personnel may have the effect of temporarily or permanently driving down the price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market from time to time experiences extreme price and volume fluctuations which particularly affect the market prices for emerging and life sciences companies, such as ours, and which are often unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. For example, our stock price has ranged from $0.05 to $0.37 between July 1, 2010 and December 31, 2011. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the ability of a stockholder to dispose of his shares at a price equal to or above the price at which the shares were purchased. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Any litigation against the Company, including this type of litigation, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 