Item 1A. Risk Factors Our most significant risks are described below; however, they are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or which we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained herein after the date of this Annual Report. Investors should be aware of the existence of these risk factors. 12 Risks Related to Our Financial Condition We Will Require Additional Financing to Sustain Our Operations and Without It, We May Have to Significantly Curtail the Scope of Our Operations and Alter Our Business Model. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had working capital deficits of $3.5 million and $4.7 million, respectively. Our independent registered public accounting firm’s report for the year ended December 31, 2007 includes an explanatory paragraph to the audit opinion stating that our recurring losses from operations and working capital deficiency raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We reported an operating cash flow deficit of $6.1 million and $5.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Under the terms of the Purchase Agreement we entered with Fusion Capital Fund II, LLC (“Fusion Capital”) in January 2008, we only have the right to receive $100,000 every three business days unless the market price of our common stock equals or exceeds $0.10 per share, in which case we can sell greater amounts to Fusion Capital as the price of our common stock increases. Fusion Capital does not have the right nor the obligation to purchase any shares of our common stock on any business day that the market price of our common stock is less than $0.052 per share. Based on the number of shares of our common stock that we registered for resale by Fusion Capital, the selling price of our common stock to Fusion Capital will have to average at least $0.16 per share for us to receive the maximum proceeds of $8.0 million potentially available under the Purchase Agreement. Assuming Fusion Capital purchases the full 50,259,599 shares of our common stock registered under the terms of the Purchase Agreement at an average purchase price of $0.11 per share (the closing sale price of our common stock on March 5, 2008) we would only receive approximately $5.5 million in proceeds. In March 2007 we received $5.2 million in a private placement (the “March 2007 Private Placement”) that, in conjunction with the proceeds we received from the exercise of certain common stock purchase warrants, funded our operations through 2007. Those proceeds, however, are not adequate to carry us through the execution of our business plan or until we achieve positive cash flow or profitability. As part of the March 2007 Private Placement, we issued to the investors in that transaction immediately exercisable warrants expiring on June 28, 2008 to purchase an aggregate of 100 million shares of our common stock at $0.08 per share and immediately exercisable warrants expiring on September 28, 2008 to purchase an aggregate of 50 million shares of our common stock at $0.11 per share as a potential source of up to $13.5 million in additional financing for us. We expected that a significant portion of these short-term warrants would be exercised during 2007, providing us with additional and necessary funding. Through March 27, 2008, approximately 11.8 million of these warrants have been exercised, resulting in proceeds to us of $940,000. The extent to which we rely on Fusion Capital as a source of funding will depend on a number of factors, including, without limitation, the prevailing market price of our common stock at the time we wish to sell shares to Fusion Capital and the extent to which we are able to secure working capital from other sources, such as from the exercise of warrants issued in the March 2007 Private Placement or other outstanding warrants, or through the sale of our products. If obtaining sufficient financing from Fusion Capital were to prove unavailable or prohibitively dilutive, or if the investors in the March 2007 Private Placement do not exercise at least a significant portion of their warrants, or if we are unable to commercialize and sell sufficient quantities of our products, we will need to secure other sources of funding or seek a strategic opportunity to satisfy our working capital needs. Even if we are able to access the full $8.0 million under the Purchase Agreement, we may still need additional capital to fully implement our business, operating and development plans. Should the financing we require to sustain our working capital needs be unavailable or prohibitively expensive, the consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and future prospects. We do not currently have any definitive agreements with respect to additional financing or a strategic opportunity, and there can be no assurance that any such financing or strategic opportunity will be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. The terms of a subsequent financing may involve a change of control or require stockholder approval and could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. If we are unable to obtain acceptable financing, we would or might be required to consider strategic opportunities, including merger, consolidation, sale or other comparable transaction, to sustain our operations. There can be no assurance that we will enter into such agreements or secure such financing, or that our stockholders will approve the terms of such financing, if so required. If such additional financing is not available to us when required or is not available to us on acceptable terms, or we are unable to arrange a suitable strategic opportunity, we will be in significant financial jeopardy and we may be unable to continue our operations at current levels, or at all. At December 31, 2007, we owed an aggregate of $9.5 million pursuant to secured promissory notes issued in connection with our April 2005 financing and our credit facility with Marr Technologies BV (“Marr”), all of which are now due in April 2009. The existence of these notes and the security interests in our assets granted in connection with the notes may inhibit our ability to obtain financing in the future or be an impediment to completing a strategic transaction. 13 Our Financial Condition has Adversely Affected Our Ability to Pay Suppliers, Service Providers and Licensors on a Timely Basis Which May Jeopardize Our Ability to Continue Our Operations and to Maintain License Rights Necessary to Continue Shipments and Sales of Our Products. At December 31, 2007, our domestic trade accounts payable totaled $1.5 million, of which approximately $1.3 million was over sixty days past due. Further, we currently have a number of cash-only arrangements with suppliers. Certain vendors and service providers may choose to bring legal action against us to recover amounts they deem due and owing. While we may dispute certain of these claims, should a creditor prevail, we may be required to pay all amounts due to the creditor. If the working capital that enables us to make payments is not available when required, we will be placed in significant financial jeopardy and we may be unable to continue our operations at current levels, or at all. Additionally, our financial condition has prevented us from ordering certain materials in the most economical order quantities, which increases the cost of our products and reduces our margins. We Have an Operating History of Significant Losses and Expect Losses to Continue for the Near Future. We have incurred losses in each year since our inception. We incurred annual operating losses of $9.2 million, and $5.9 million during the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. At December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $175.9 million. We incurred net losses of $8.3 million and $13.8 million for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Our revenues have not been sufficient to sustain our operations and we do not expect that our revenues will be sufficient to sustain our operations in 2008. Our profitability will require that we successfully commercialize our HIV-1/2 rapid diagnostic tests and other new products we may develop. There can be no assurance that this will occur or that we will ever become profitable. Our independent registered public accounting firm has added an explanatory paragraph to their audit opinion issued in connection with the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 relative to our ability to continue as a going concern. Our ability to obtain additional funding will determine our ability to continue as a going concern. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty We Have Federal and State Net Operating Losses and Research and Development Credits Which May Expire Before We Can Utilize Them. At December 31, 2007, we had federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $170 million. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code imposes an annual limitation on the utilization of net operating loss carryforwards following a “change in ownership.” The amount of the limitation is based on a statutory rate of return and the value of the corporation at the time of the change of ownership. Our private placements and other sales of our equity securities can potentially cause a change of ownership either individually or in the aggregate. We have conducted a preliminary analysis of our stock ownership changes which indicates that ownership changes within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code may have occurred in 2003 and 2004. After applying the Section 382 limitations resulting from these presumed ownership changes, approximately $88 million and $32 million of federal and state net operating loss carryforwards, respectively, are available at December 31, 2007. If a change of ownership has occurred as a result of past financings and an annual limitation is imposed, we may not be able to fully utilize all of our federal and state loss carryforwards and resesarch and development credit carryforwards. Our inability to fully utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits could have a negative impact on our tax asset, financial position and results of operations. 14 Risks Related to the Market for Our Common Stock The Sale of Our Common Stock to Fusion Capital May Cause Dilution to Our Current Stockholders and Fusion Capital’s Sale of Common Stock May Cause the Price of Our Common Stock to Decline. The number of shares of our common stock ultimately offered for sale by Fusion Capital is dependent upon the number of shares Fusion Capital purchases from us under the Purchase Agreement. The purchase price for the common stock to be sold to Fusion Capital pursuant to the Purchase Agreement will vary based on the market price of our common stock at the time of each sale. We expect that Fusion Capital will sell the shares we registered for its resale over a period of up to 24 months from the effective date of the registration statement, February 8, 2008. Depending upon market liquidity, Fusion Capital’s resale of shares of our common stock at any given time could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Fusion Capital may ultimately purchase all, some, or none of the 54,000,000 shares that we registered for resale by Fusion Capital. After it has acquired such shares, it may sell all, some or none of those shares. As a result, sales to Fusion Capital by us under the Purchase Agreement may result in substantial dilution to the interests of other holders of our common stock. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock under this offering, or market anticipation of such sales, may make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future and may lower the price at which we can sell equity or equity-related securities. The Significant Amount of Securities Issued in Recent Financings May Have a Negative Effect on the Market Price of Our Common Stock. In February and March 2007, we issued approximately 104 million shares of common stock and warrants to purchase 155 million shares of common stock to non-affiliated investors. In our May and July 2004 financings and April 2005 financings we issued (i) promissory notes that are convertible into at least 17.6 million shares of common stock and (ii) warrants to purchase approximately 30 million shares of common stock. The approximately 104 million shares of common stock issued to non-affiliated investors in February and March 2007 have or will become freely tradable in February and March 2008 under Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”). As and if the non-affiliated investors in the March 2007 private placement exercise any of the 150 million warrants issued to them in that financing, the shares of stock they would acquire upon exercise of those warrants will be saleable as soon as six months after the date of exercise of the warrants under Rule 144, if certain conditions are met. In any event, the shares of common stock acquired upon the exercise of those warrants will be freely saleable one year after the exercise of warrants. If the non-affiliated investors holding the convertible promissory notes and warrants issued in connection with the 2004 and 2005 financings were to convert their promissory notes or exercise their warrants, most of the shares of common stock they would receive would immediately be freely tradable. Other non-affiliated investors hold approximately 160 million shares of common stock that are freely tradable. If non-affiliated investors holding a significant number of freely tradable shares decide to sell shares in the public market in a short period of time, such sales may cause significant downward pressure on the market price of our common stock. Such sales may also inhibit our ability to obtain future equity or equity-related financing on acceptable terms. We May Need our Stockholders to Authorize Additional Shares of Common Stock or a Reverse Split of Our Common Stock in the Near Future. From inception through December 31, 2007, we have issued approximately 357 million shares of common stock and raised approximately $168 million. We have 800 million shares of common stock authorized for issuance. After considering the share reserves required under the Purchase Agreement with Fusion Capital and for our benefit plans and other recent financings, there are approximately 60 million shares of common stock remaining for issuance in future financings or for other purposes. In addition to the potential dilutive effect of issuing such a number of shares at current prices, there is the potential that a large number of the shares may be sold in the public market at any given time, which may place additional downward pressure on the market price of our common stock. In this regard, significant downward pressure on the market price of our common stock may also cause investors to engage in short sales, which would further contribute significant downward pressure on the market price of our common stock. 15 If we are unable to access capital from Fusion Capital under the Purchase Agreement or if we determine that accessing capital from Fusion Capital is prohibitively dilutive, or if the investors in the March 2007 private placement do not exercise a significant portion of their warrants, we may not have enough authorized shares of common stock to issue in connection with a future financing of sufficient size to meet our needs. We may need to seek stockholder approval to increase the number of authorized shares of common stock to provide us with the flexibility to continue to finance our operations. Alternatively, we may consider a reverse split of our common stock. At current prices, our common stock is considered to be “penny stock,” which precludes it from trading on a stock exchange or other major trading market and prevents major institutional investors and many foreign investors from holding it in their portfolios. If our stockholders are requested to, and approve, a reverse stock split, we would likely keep the number of authorized shares of common stock the same as it is now, which would provide us with greater flexibility to issue stock for future financings or for other purposes. There can be no assurance, however, that the post-reverse split market price of our common stock would continue to reflect the ratio used in a reverse stock split. While there is no impending announcement of a reverse stock split, such an announcement may also cause certain investors to engage in short sales, which may further contribute significant downward pressure on the market price of our common stock. Moreover, there can be no assurance that our stockholders would, if so requested, approve either of these alternatives. If they do not, we may not be able to continue financing our operations and we would have to revise our business plan, curtail our operations, or both. Our Issuance of Warrants, Options and Stock Grants to Consultants for Services and the Granting of Registration Rights for the Underlying Shares of Common Stock May Have a Negative Effect on the Market Price of Our Common Stock. As we continue to look for ways to minimize our use of cash while obtaining required services, we expect to continue to issue stock bonus grants and/or warrants and stock options at or below the current market price. In 2007 and 2006, we issued approximately 2.9 million and 2.3 million shares of our common stock, respectively, in payment of consulting and other services. In addition to the potential dilutive effect of issuing a large number of shares of common stock or stock options, there is the potential that a large number of the shares may be sold in the public market at any given time, which could place additional downward pressure on the market price of our common stock. The Market Price of Our Common Stock Is Highly Volatile. The market price of our common stock has been and is expected to continue to be highly volatile. Our common stock has traded as low as $0.051 per share and as high as $0.23 per share in the twelve months ended December 31, 2007. We believe that some of the factors leading to the volatility include: • price and volume fluctuations in the stock market at large which do not relate to our operating performance; • fluctuations in our operating results; • concerns about our ability to finance our continuing operations; • concerns about the liquidity of our stock; • concerns about the stability of our stock as a result of delisting from the American Stock Exchange; • financing arrangements which may require the issuance of a significant number of shares in relation to the number of shares currently outstanding, including anti-dilution provisions; • announcements of technological innovations or new products which we or our competitors make; • FDA, SEC and international regulatory actions; • availability of reimbursement for use of our products from private health insurers, governmental health administration authorities and other third-party payors; • developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights; • public concern as to the safety of products that we or others develop; • changes in health care policy in the United States or abroad; 16 • changes in stock market analysts’ recommendations regarding Calypte, other medical products companies or the medical product industry generally; • fluctuations in market demand for and supply of our products; • certain world conditions, such as an economic downturn, natural disasters or terrorist attacks; and • anti-American sentiment in certain international markets where we market or anticipate marketing our products. In addition, the potential dilutive effects of future sales of shares of common stock by stockholders and by the Company, including by Fusion Capital pursuant to this prospectus, and subsequent sales of common stock by the holders of warrants and stock options, may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Our Charter Documents May Inhibit a Takeover. Certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws may: • discourage potential acquisition proposals (i.e. stockholder rights plan also known as a “poison pill”); • delay or prevent a change in control; • diminish stockholders’ opportunities to participate in tender offers for our common stock, including tender offers at prices above the then-current market price; • inhibit increases in the market price of our common stock that could result from takeover attempts; or • grant to our board of directors (the “Board“) the discretionary right to designate specific rights and preferences of preferred stock greater than those of our common stock. Furthermore, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (DGCL). In general, the DGCL prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person becomes an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. An “interested stockholder” is a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns, or within the prior three years did own, 15% or more of the corporation's voting stock. This provision could make it more difficult for an “interested stockholder” to obtain control of us without the approval of our Board. We Have a Stockholder Rights Plan That Has Certain Anti-takeover Effects. On December 15, 1998, the Board of Calypte declared a dividend distribution of one preferred share purchase right for each outstanding share of our common stock (collectively, the “Rights“). The dividend is payable to the stockholders of record on January 5, 1999, with respect to each share of common stock issued thereafter until a subsequent distribution date defined in the Rights agreement and, in certain circumstances, with respect to shares of common stock issued after the distribution date. The Rights may have certain anti-takeover effects. The Rights may cause dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us without conditioning the offer on the Rights being redeemed or a number of Rights being acquired. However, the Rights should not interfere with any tender offer, or merger, which we approve because the Rights do not become exercisable in the event of an offer or other acquisition exempted by our Board. Our Board has Certain Discretionary Rights With Respect to Our Preferred Stock That May Adversely Affect the Rights of our Common Stockholders. Our Board may, without stockholder approval, designate and issue our preferred stock in one or more series. Additionally, our Board may designate the rights and preferences of each series of preferred stock which may be greater than the rights of our common stock. Potential effects on our common stock may include among other things: 17 • restricting dividends; • dilution of voting power; • impairment of liquidation rights; and • delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company. Additionally, we currently have approximately 60 million shares of common stock that could be issued for financing or other purposes. Dilution resulting from such issuance could also adversely affect the rights of our current common stockholders. Further restructuring, if approved by the stockholders, would further increase the number of shares available for future financings and would result in additional dilution to the current common stockholders. Our Common Stock is Subject to the “Penny Stock” Rules of the SEC and the Trading Market In Our Securities is Limited, Which Makes Transactions in Our Stock Cumbersome and May Reduce the Value of an Investment in Our Stock. Shares of our common stock are “penny stocks” as defined in the Exchange Act. The “penny stock” rules adopted by the Commission under the Exchange Act subject the sale of the shares of our common stock to certain regulations which impose sales practice requirements on broker/dealers. For example, brokers/dealers selling such securities must, prior to effecting the transaction, provide their customers with a document that discloses the risks of investing in such securities. Included in this documents are the following: • the bid and offer price quotes in and for the “penny stock”, and the number of shares to which the quoted prices apply. • the brokerage firm’s compensation for the trade. • the compensation received by the brokerage firm’s sales person for the trade. In addition, the brokerage firm must send the investor: • a monthly account statement that gives an estimate of the value of each “penny stock” in the investor's account. • a written statement of the investor’s financial situation and investment goals. Legal remedies, which may be available to you as an investor in “penny stocks”, are as follows: • if “penny stock” is sold to you in violation of your rights listed above, or other federal or states securities laws, you may be able to cancel your purchase and get your money back. • if the stocks are sold in a fraudulent manner, you may be able to sue the persons and firms that caused the fraud for damages. • if you have signed an arbitration agreement, however, you may have to pursue your claim through arbitration. If the person purchasing the securities is someone other than an accredited investor or an established customer of the broker/dealer, the broker/dealer must also approve the potential customer’s account by obtaining information concerning the customer’s financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives. The broker/dealer must also make a determination whether the transaction is suitable for the customer and whether the customer has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be reasonably expected to be capable of evaluating the risk of transactions in such securities. Accordingly, the Commission’s rules may limit the number of potential purchasers of the shares of our common stock. Resale restrictions on transferring “penny stocks” are sometimes imposed by some states, which may make transactions in our stock more difficult and may reduce the value of the investment. Various state securities laws impose restrictions on transferring “penny stocks” and as a result, investors in our common stock may have the ability to sell their shares of our common stock impaired. Certain foreign countries also impose limitations and restrictions on the ability of their citizens to own stock that is not traded on a recognized exchange, which, in certain instances, does not include the Over the Counter Bulletin Board. 18 Risks Related to Our Business A Viable Market for Our Products May Not Develop or We May Not Be Able to Successfully Develop and Market New Products That We Plan to Introduce. Our future success will depend, in large part, on the market acceptance, and the timing of such acceptance, of our AwareTM HIV-1/2 OMT rapid test and the HIV-1 BED Incidence Test and such other new products or technologies that we may develop or acquire. To achieve market acceptance, we must make substantial marketing efforts and spend significant funds to inform potential customers and the public of the perceived benefits of these products. We currently have limited resources with which to stimulate market interest in and demand for our products and limited evidence on which to evaluate the market’s reaction to products that may be developed. We currently have approval to sell our AwareTM HIV-1/2 OMT rapid test product in countries including Russia, India, South Africa, United Arab Emirates, Iraq, Uganda and Kenya and we have been engaged in the regulatory approval process in China for two years. We plan to seek regulatory approval in other countries as resources permit. Sub-Saharan Africa, China, India and Russia are the areas predicted to have the greatest increase in HIV infections over the next few years. We believe that a simple, non-invasive test such as ours will have significant demand as it can be used as an integral part of a real-time treatment program. Although we are optimistic regarding the future sales prospects for our AwareTM HIV-1/2 OMT rapid test, obtaining regulatory approval has not resulted in significant product sales to date. In Africa and elsewhere, government Ministries of Health or similar agencies are the primary purchasers of HIV tests, typically through a tender process which currently requires the exclusive use of blood tests. Such tenders often consider only the purchase cost of an HIV diagnostic test, ignoring the ancillary costs of administration, including costs such as personnel and materials required to draw and dispose of blood samples. We are directing considerable effort, including product donations to key user agencies, to encourage the consideration and inclusion of our oral fluid tests in such tenders. We consider these efforts to be part of an “enabling” strategy in which the standard of care for HIV diagnosis evolves from the exclusive use of blood tests to more widespread use of non-invasive oral fluid-based tests. This process is time-consuming and expensive. There can be no assurance that our AwareTM HIV-1/2 OMT rapid tests will obtain widespread market acceptance internationally or that significant sales will occur on a timetable that we can accurately project. We manufacture the HIV-1 BED Incidence Test on behalf of the CDC and that test is available for sale, but we have limited experience marketing it and sales to-date have been modest. The CDC has issued an Information Sheet acknowledging that the assay may cause over-estimation under certain conditions and has issued revised recommendations and protocols for its use. As a result, although we believe that the Incidence Test is a valuable technology in the fight against the spread of HIV/AIDS and expect that the process of refining its applications will continue as its use expands, there can be no assurance that the Incidence Test will achieve widespread acceptance, either in the U. S. or internationally. We have just introduced our Aware MessengerTM oral fluid sample collection device and have no experience marketing such a product. If our current products fail to achieve additional regulatory approvals or market acceptance or generate significant revenues, we may have to abandon them and alter our business plan. Such modifications to our business plan will likely delay achievement of sustainable cash flow from product sales and profitability. As a result, we may have to seek additional financing, which may not be available on the timetable required or on acceptable terms, or we may have to curtail our operations, or both. 19 In addition to our rapid HIV-1/2 diagnostic tests and the BED Incidence Test, we plan to develop and/or commercialize other diagnostic products for other infectious diseases or health conditions, some potentially in combination with each other (i.e. multi-channel tests). Through our research collaborations with the CDC, we expect to develop a blood-based rapid HIV test for diagnostic and surveillance purposes. We may consider licensing other capabilities from the CDC to evaluate the feasibility of additional diagnostic tests. There are numerous developmental and regulatory issues that may preclude the introduction of these products into commercial sale. If we are unable to demonstrate the feasibility of these products and successfully transfer the technology for commercial-scale manufacturing while meeting regulatory requirements or resolving potential patent licensing or government distribution or licensing requirements with respect to their marketing, then there can be no assurance that any or all of these products will achieve widespread acceptance, either in the U. S. or internationally, Additionally, neither we nor our marketing partners have significant experience marketing and selling rapid diagnostic tests. Our success depends upon alliances with third-party international distributors and joint venture partners and upon our ability to penetrate expanded markets with such distributors and partners. There can be no assurance that: • our international distributors and joint ventures will successfully market our products; • our future selling efforts will be effective, as we have not yet introduced in significant volume either an HIV-1/2 product or other point of care test; • we will obtain market acceptance in the medical or public health community, including government and humanitarian funding sources critical in many international markets, which are essential for acceptance of our products; or that the relationships we develop with humanitarian agencies or their intermediaries will prove to be reliable and sustainable; or • if our relationships with distributors or marketing partners terminate, we will be able to establish relationships with other distributors or marketing partners on satisfactory terms, if at all. Consequently, there can be no assurance that any of our current or potential new products will obtain widespread market acceptance and fill the market need that is perceived to exist. Additionally, although we plan to introduce an over the counter HIV diagnostic test for the domestic over the counter market, there can be no assurance regarding the timeline for which or certainty that the FDA will develop protocols for evaluation and approval of such a product. We are Dependent Upon Patents, Licenses and Other Proprietary Rights From Third Parties. To facilitate the development and commercialization of a proprietary technology base for our rapid test products, we have obtained licenses to patents or other proprietary rights from other parties. Obtaining such licenses has required the payment of substantial amounts and will require the payment of royalties to maintain them in the future. We believe that the licenses to the technologies we have acquired are critical to our ability to sell our rapid tests currently being commercialized and other rapid tests that we may plan to develop and/or commercialize in the future. There are numerous patents in the United States and other countries which claim lateral flow assay methods and related devices, some of which cover the technology used in our rapid test products and are in force in the United States and other countries. In 2004, we entered into a non-exclusive sublicense agreement with Abbott Laboratories that grants us worldwide rights related to patents for lateral flow assay methods and related devices. We believe that the acquisition of these rights will enable us to make or sell our rapid test products in countries where these patents are in force. In 2004, we also acquired a sublicense from Bio-Rad Laboratories and Bio-Rad Pasteur for patents related to the detection of the HIV-2 virus. HIV-2 is a type of the HIV virus estimated to represent a small fraction of the known HIV cases worldwide. Nevertheless, HIV-2 is considered to be an important component in the testing regimen for HIV in many markets. We believe that this sub-license agreement makes it possible for us to sell HIV-2 tests in countries where such patents are in force, or to manufacture in countries where such patents are in force and then sell into non-patent markets. Additionally, in 2003 we licensed an antigen necessary for certain of our rapid HIV-1/2 products from Adaltis, Inc., and in 2004, we acquired rights from Ani Biotech for its rapid test diagnostic platform and sample applicator, which we believe is a viable alternative to current lateral flow technologies and with potentially worldwide applicability. The loss of any one of these licenses or challenges to the patents would be detrimental to the commercialization of our rapid tests by delaying or limiting our ability to sell our rapid test products, which would adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and business. 20 In the event that our financial condition inhibits our ability to pay license fees or royalty payments due under our license agreements, our rights to use, transfer or sublicense those licenses could be jeopardized in the event of a default in payment of fees or royalties. The loss of any of the foregoing licenses could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to produce our products or introduce new HIV or other diagnostic products in countries covered by those patents since the license agreements provide necessary proprietary processes or components for the manufacture of our products. Our Success Depends on Our Ability to Protect Our Proprietary Technologies. The medical diagnostics test industry places considerable importance on obtaining patent, trademark, and trade secret protection, as well as other intellectual property rights, for new technologies, products and processes. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to develop and maintain a strong intellectual property portfolio or to obtain licenses to patents for products and technologies, both in the United States and in other countries. As appropriate, we intend to file patent applications and obtain patent protection for our proprietary technology. These patent applications and patents, when filed, are intended to cover, as applicable, compositions of matter for our products, methods of making those products, methods of using those products, and apparatus relating to the use or manufacture of those products. We will also rely on trade secrets, know-how, and continuing technological advancements to protect our proprietary technology. There is, however, no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining the required patent protection or that such protection will be enforced in certain countries in which we compete. We have entered, and will continue to enter, into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators. However, these parties may not honor these agreements and we may not be able to successfully protect our rights to unpatented trade secrets and know-how. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets and know-how. Certain of our employees, including scientific and management personnel, were previously employed by competing companies. Although we encourage and expect all of our employees to abide by any confidentiality agreement with a prior employer, competing companies may allege trade secret violations and similar claims against us. We have collaborated in the past and expect to collaborate in the future with universities and governmental research organizations which, as a result, may acquire part of the rights to any inventions or technical information derived from collaboration with them. We may incur substantial costs and be required to expend substantial resources in asserting or protecting our intellectual property rights, or in defending suits against us related to intellectual property rights. Disputes regarding intellectual property rights could substantially delay product development or commercialization activities. Disputes regarding intellectual property rights might include state, federal or foreign court litigation as well as patent interference, patent reexamination, patent reissue, or trademark opposition proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Opposition or revocation proceedings could be instituted in a foreign patent office. An adverse decision in any proceeding regarding intellectual property rights could result in the loss or limitation of our rights to a patent, an invention or trademark. We May Need to Establish Additional Collaborative Agreements, and this Could Have a Negative Effect on Our Freedom to Operate Our Business or Profit Fully from Sales of Our Products. We may seek to collaborate with other companies to gain access to their research and development, manufacturing, marketing and financial resources. However, we may not be able to negotiate arrangements with any collaborative partners on acceptable terms. Any collaborative relationships that we enter into may include restrictions on our freedom to operate our business or to profit fully from the sales of our products. 21 Once a collaborative arrangement is established, the collaborative partner may discontinue funding any particular program or may, either alone or with others, pursue alternative technologies for the protects or diseases we are targeting. Competing products, developed by a collaborative partner or to which a collaborative partner has rights, may result in the collaborative partner withdrawing support as to all or a portion of our technology. Without collaborative arrangements, we must fund our own research and development activities, accelerating the depletion of our financing resources and requiring us to develop our own marketing capabilities. Therefore, if we are unable to establish and maintain collaborative arrangements, we could experience a material adverse effect on our ability to develop products and, once developed, to market them successfully. The Time Needed to Obtain Regulatory Approvals and Respond to Changes in Regulatory Requirements Could Adversely Affect Our Business. Our existing and proposed products are subject to regulation by the Chinese FDA (the SFDA), the FDA, Russian and Indian regulatory bodies and other governmental or public health agencies. In particular, we are subject to strict governmental controls on the development, manufacture, labeling, distribution and marketing of our products. In addition, we are often required to obtain approval or registration with other foreign governments or regulatory bodies before we can import and sell our products in these countries. The process of obtaining required approvals or clearances from governmental or public health agencies can involve lengthy and detailed laboratory testing, human clinical trials, sampling activities and other costly, time-consuming procedures. The submission of an application to the SFDA, the FDA or other regulatory authority does not guarantee that an approval or clearance to market a product will be received. Each authority may impose its own requirements and delay or refuse to grant approval or clearance, even though a product has been approved in another country or by another agency. Moreover, the approval or clearance process for a new product can be complex and lengthy. This time span increases our costs to develop new products as well as the risk that we will not succeed in introducing or selling them in our target markets. Newly promulgated or changed regulations could also require us to undergo additional trials or procedures, or could make it impractical or impossible for us to market our products for certain uses, in certain markets, or at all. Failure to Comply With SFDA, FDA or Similar International Regulatory Bodies or Other Requirements May Require Us to Suspend Production of Our Products Which Could Result in a Loss of Revenues. We can manufacture and sell products, both in China, the United States and elsewhere abroad, only if we comply with regulations of government agencies such as the SFDA and the FDA. We have implemented quality assurance and other systems that are intended to comply with applicable government regulations with regard to both our planned manufacturing in China and our contract manufacturing operations. The SFDA, the FDA, or another government or public health agency could force us to stop manufacturing our products if it concludes that we are out of compliance with applicable regulations. They could also require us to recall products if we fail to comply with applicable regulations, which could force us to stop manufacturing such products. Either of these events would result in a material adverse effect on our business. We Engage Contract Manufacturers and Plan to Conduct International Manufacturing Operations to Produce Some of Our Products, Including Our Rapid Tests Currently Being Commercialized. We have engaged a domestic contract manufacturer to produce our BED Incidence tests and our Aware MessengerTM sampling device and another in Thailand to produce our rapid HIV tests and we have manufacturing operations in China through our affiliate and plan to do so elsewhere. We intend to subsequently introduce a new line of products using the Ani technology platform, and again expect to rely on outsourced or overseas manufacturing organizations. Initially, none of these entities will have more than limited experience, if any, in manufacturing our products and will have no experience in manufacturing them in commercial quantities. Furthermore, our rapid tests are not yet approved for sale in Thailand, which precludes us from selling them in certain countries in which approval in the country of manufacture, i.e. a “Certificate of Origin,” is a prerequisite to local product approval. While outsourcing our manufacturing processes to contract manufacturers may permit us to expand our manufacturing capacity more quickly, it may also subject us to problems in such areas as: 22 • transferring the technology from the laboratory or pilot operation to the contract manufacturer on a commercial scale; • lack of technical knowledge regarding regulated procedures and the ability of the contract manufacturer to obtain and maintain the necessary GMP or other regulatory certifications; • uncertain or unreliable production yields; • maintaining quality control and assurance; • regulatory compliance, since most rapid test manufacturers do not produce products that are as stringently controlled as HIV diagnostics; • misappropriation of intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where patent protection is less stringent, and depending on the extent of manufacturing processes that are outsourced; • developing market acceptance for new product; • production yields; • quality control and assurance; • raw material supply; • shortages of qualified personnel; and • maintaining appropriate financial controls and procedures. Any of these problems could affect our ability to meet increases in demand should our products gain market acceptance and could impede the growth of our sales revenues. We Rely on Sole Source Suppliers that We Cannot Quickly Replace for Certain Components Critical to the Manufacture of Our Products. Among the critical items we purchase from qualified sole source suppliers are various conjugates, and HIV-positive and HIV-negative testing samples. Any delay or interruption in the supply of these or other sole source components could have a material adverse effect on us by significantly impairing our or our contract manufacturer’s ability to manufacture products in sufficient quantities, particularly as we increase our manufacturing activities in support of commercial sales. Further, price increases imposed by these suppliers may result in increased costs and reduced margins to us, if we are unable to pass the increased costs on to our customers. In addition, if our financial condition impairs our ability to pay for critical components on a timely basis, our suppliers may delay or cease selling critical components to us, which could also restrict our ability to manufacture. We typically do not have long-term supply agreements with these suppliers, relying instead on periodic purchase orders to acquire materials with the result that suppliers could delay or decline to ship components until payment is made in advance or on a COD basis. We May Not Be Able to Retain and/or Attract Key Executives and Other Personnel. Certain of our executives and senior employees left the Company during 2006 and 2007. As a small company, our success depends on the services of key employees in various research and development, administrative, marketing and quality systems positions. Our inability to replace or attract key employees in certain positions as a result of our financial condition, or for other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. 23 Our Research, Development and Commercialization Efforts May Not Succeed or Our Competitors May Develop and Commercialize More Effective or Successful Diagnostic Products. In order to remain competitive, we must regularly commit substantial resources to research and development and the commercialization of new products. The research and development process generally takes a significant amount of time and money from inception to commercial product launch. This process is conducted in various stages. During each stage there is a substantial risk that we will not achieve our goals on a timely basis, or at all, and we may have to abandon a product in which we have invested substantial amounts of money. During 2007 we incurred approximately $1.3 million in research and development expenses. We expect to continue to incur significant costs as a result of our research and development activities in the future. A primary focus of our efforts has been, and is expected to continue to be, rapid HIV tests that we are commercializing or that are in the process of being developed. We plan to expand our product line to include tests for other STD’s or synergistic diseases or conditions. However, there can be no assurance that we will succeed in our commercialization of these tests or in our research and development efforts with respect to rapid tests or other technologies or products. Successful products require significant development and investment, including testing, to demonstrate their efficacy, cost-effectiveness and other benefits prior to commercialization. In addition, regulatory approval must be obtained before most products may be sold. Regulatory authorities may not approve these products for commercial sale. In addition, even if a product is developed and all applicable regulatory approvals are obtained, there may be little or no market for the product at a price that will allow us to earn a reasonable profit, or we may be unable to obtain the requisite licenses to sell the product or to qualify for a government tender, which are often requirements in third world countries where the greatest need and largest market for HIV diagnostic testing exists. Accordingly, if we fail to develop commercially successful products, or if competitors develop more effective products or a greater number of successful new products, or there are governmental limitations affecting our ability to sell our products, customers may decide to use products developed by our competitors. This would result in a loss of current or anticipated future revenues and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and business. We Face Intense Competition in the Medical Diagnostic Products Market and Rapid Technological Advances by Competitors. Competition in our diagnostic market is intense and we expect it to increase. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, marketing and distribution resources than we do. Our competitors may succeed in developing or marketing technologies and products that are more effective than ours. In addition, if acceptance for oral fluid testing expands, we may experience competition from companies in areas where intellectual property rights may not be as stringent as in the United States. These developments could render our technologies or products obsolete or noncompetitive or otherwise affect our ability to increase or maintain our products’ market share. Further, the greater resources of our competitors could enable them to develop competing products more quickly so as to make it difficult for us to develop a share of the market for these products. By having greater resources, our competitors may also be able to respond more quickly to technology changes in the marketplace and may be able to obtain regulatory approval for products more quickly than we can. Our future success will depend on our ability to remain competitive with other developers of medical devices and therapies. Our Quarterly Results May Fluctuate Due to Certain Regulatory, Marketing and Competitive Factors Over Which We Have Little or No Control. The factors listed below, some of which we cannot control, may cause our revenues and results of operations to fluctuate significantly: • actions taken by the FDA or foreign regulatory bodies relating to products we are commercializing or seeking to develop; • the extent to which our current or proposed new products gain market acceptance; 24 • the timing and size of purchases by our customers, distributors or joint venture partners; • introductions of alternative means for testing for HIV by competitors; • Changes in the way regulatory authorities evaluate HIV testing, including supplemental testing of the results of a rapid HIV screening test; and • customer concerns about the stability of our business which could cause them to seek alternatives to our product. The Success of Our Plans to Enter International Markets May Be Limited or Disrupted Due to Risks Related to International Trade and Marketing and the Capabilities of Our Distributors, Manufacturers and Joint Venture Partners. We must rely on revenues to be generated from sales of our current or planned incidence and rapid tests, largely to international distributors and/or joint ventures. We believe that our alternative fluid-based tests can provide significant benefits in countries that do not have the facilities or personnel to safely and effectively collect and test blood samples. To date, however, sales to international customers have resulted in relatively insignificant revenues. A majority of the companies with which we compete in the sale of HIV screening tests actively market their diagnostic products outside of the United States. Manufacturers from Japan, Canada, Europe, and Australia offer a number of HIV screening tests in those markets, including HIV-1/2 rapid tests, which are not approved for sale in the U.S. market. There can be no assurance that our products will compete effectively against these products in foreign markets. The following risks may limit or disrupt the success of our international efforts: • the imposition of government controls (regulatory approval); • export license requirements; • political and economic instability; • trade restrictions; • changes in tariffs; • difficulties in managing international operations (difficulty in establishing a relationship with a foreign distributor, joint venture partner, or contract manufacturer with the financial and logistical ability to maintain quality control of product); • the ability to secure licenses for intellectual property or technology that are necessary to manufacture or sell our products in the selected countries; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchanges rates; • the financial stability of our distributors and/or their expertise in obtaining local country regulatory approvals; • the financial capabilities of potential customers in lesser-developed countries or, alternatively, our inability to obtain approvals which would enable such countries access to outside financing, such as the World Bank; • the ability of our distributors to successfully sell into their contractual market territory or to successfully cover their entire territory; • the possibility that a distributor may be unable to meet minimum contractual commitments; • establishing market awareness; and • external conditions such as regional conflicts, health crises or natural disasters. Some of our distributors have limited international marketing experience. There can be no assurance that these distributors will be able to successfully market our products in foreign markets. Any such failure will delay or disrupt our plans to expand our business. 25 The Chinese Government Could Change Its Policies Toward Private Enterprises or Even Nationalize or Expropriate Them, Which Could Result in the Total Loss of Business in That Country. We have established joint ventures in China with an entity related to our largest stockholder through which we expect to manufacture and sell our products. Our business in China is subject to political or economic uncertainties and may be adversely affected by political, economic and social developments in China. Over the past decade, the Chinese government has pursued economic reform policies, including the encouragement of private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. The Chinese government may choose to end these policies or alter them significantly to our detriment with little, if any, notice. Changes in policies, laws and regulations or in their interpretation or the imposition of taxation, restrictions on currency conversion, restrictions or devaluations of currency, nationalization or other expropriation of private enterprises could have a material adverse effect on our business in China. Nationalization or expropriation could result in the total loss of business in China. An Economic Downturn, Terrorist Attacks or Other Conditions Beyond Our Control May Adversely Affect Our Business or Our Customers May Not Be Able to Satisfy Their Contractual Obligations and We May Not Be Able to Deliver Our Products as a Result of the Impact of Conditions Such as Certain World Events or Natural Disasters. Changes in economic conditions could adversely affect our business. For example, in a difficult economic environment, customers may be unwilling or unable to invest in new diagnostic products, may elect to reduce the amount of their purchases or may perform less HIV testing. A weakening business climate could also cause longer sales cycles and slower growth, and could expose us to increased business or credit risk in dealing with customers adversely affected by economic conditions. Terrorist attacks or regional conflicts and subsequent governmental responses to these attacks could cause further economic instability or lead to further acts of terrorism in the United States and elsewhere. These actions could adversely affect economic conditions outside the United States and reduce demand for our products internationally. Terrorist attacks could also cause regulatory agencies, such as the FDA or agencies that perform similar functions outside the United States, to focus their resources on vaccines or other products intended to address the threat of biological or chemical warfare. This diversion of resources could delay our ability to obtain regulatory approvals required to manufacture, market or sell our products in the United States and other countries. Our business model and future revenue forecasts call for a significant expansion of sales in the People’s Republic of China as well as in Africa, Russia, India and elsewhere upon successful commercialization of our rapid test products. Should conditions beyond our control, such as disease outbreaks, natural disasters, war or political unrest, redirect attention from the worldwide HIV/AIDS epidemic or concern for other STD’s, if and when we are able to develop and introduce such diagnostic products, our customers’ ability to meet their contractual purchase obligations and/or our ability to supply product internationally for either evaluation or commercial use may prevent us from achieving the revenues we have projected. As a result, we may have to seek additional financing beyond that which we have projected, which may not be available on the timetable required or on acceptable terms that are not substantially dilutive to our stockholders, or we may have to curtail our operations, or both. As a Small Manufacturer of Medical Diagnostic Products, We Are Exposed to Product Liability and Recall Risks For Which Insurance Coverage is Expensive, Limited and Potentially Inadequate. We manufacture medical diagnostic products, which subjects us to risks of product liability claims or product recalls, particularly in the event of false positive or false negative reports. A product recall or a successful product liability claim or claims that exceed our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on us. We maintain a $5,000,000 claims-made policy of product liability insurance. However, product liability insurance is expensive. In the future we may not be able to obtain coverage on acceptable terms, if at all. Moreover, our insurance coverage may not adequately protect us from liability that we incur in connection with clinical trials or sales of our products. 26 Item 