Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the following information about the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report before you decide to buy or maintain an investment in our common stock. We believe the risks described below are the risks that are material to us as of the date of this Annual Report. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of may also become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects would likely be materially and adversely affected. In these circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our common stock. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We depend heavily on the successful development and commercialization of our lead product candidate, AFREZZA, which is not yet approved. To date, we have not commercialized any product candidates. We have expended significant time, money and effort in the development of our lead product candidate, AFREZZA, which has not yet received regulatory approval and which may not be approved by the FDA in a timely manner, or at all. Our other product candidates are generally in early clinical or preclinical development. We anticipate that in the near term, our ability to generate revenues will depend solely on the successful development and commercialization of AFREZZA. In a Complete Response letter received on January 18, 2011, the FDA requested that we conduct two clinical studies with the next-generation inhaler (one in patients with type 1 diabetes and one in patients with type 2 diabetes), with at least one study including a treatment group using the MedTone (model C) inhaler in order to obtain a head-to-head comparison of the pulmonary safety data for the two devices. The FDA also stated that after an adequate titration of study medication there should be at least 12 weeks of relatively stable insulin dosing at the end of the treatment period. We are scheduled to hold an End-of-Review meeting with the agency in mid-April to discuss the protocols for the two requested studies. As part of our briefing to the FDA, we have submitted the protocols for two studies that are designed to evaluate A1C levels after an adequate titration of AFREZZA followed by a relative stable insulin dose for at least 12 weeks We expect that data from these two studies, known as study 171 in type 1 patients and study 172 in type 2 patients, will form the basis of our response to the January 2011 Complete Response letter. We plan to work closely with the FDA in our effort to ensure that these clinical studies address the agency’s requests. There can be no assurance that we will be able to satisfy all of the FDA’s requirements or that the FDA will find our proposed approach to these and other future clinical studies acceptable. The FDA could also request that we conduct additional clinical trials to provide sufficient data for approval of the NDA. There can be no assurance that we will be able to satisfy all of the FDA’s requirements or that the FDA will find our proposed approach to these and other future clinical studies acceptable. The FDA could also request that we conduct additional clinical trials to provide sufficient data for approval of the NDA. There can be no assurance that we will obtain approval of the NDA in a timely manner or at all. We must receive the necessary approvals from the FDA and similar foreign regulatory agencies before AFREZZA can be marketed and sold in the United States or elsewhere. Even if we were to receive regulatory approval, we ultimately may be unable to gain market acceptance of AFREZZA for a variety of reasons, including the treatment and dosage regimen, potential adverse effects, the availability of alternative treatments and cost effectiveness. If we fail to commercialize AFREZZA, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. We have sought to develop our product candidates through our internal research programs. All of our product candidates will require additional research and development and, in some cases, significant preclinical, clinical and other testing prior to seeking regulatory approval to market them. Accordingly, these product candidates will not be commercially available for a number of years, if at all. A significant portion of the research that we have conducted involves new and unproven compounds and technologies, including AFREZZA, Technosphere platform technology and immunotherapy product candidates. Even if our research programs identify candidates that initially show promise, these candidates may fail to progress to clinical development for any number of reasons, including discovery upon further research that these candidates have adverse effects or other characteristics that indicate they are unlikely to be effective. In addition, the clinical 23 Table of Contents results we obtain at one stage are not necessarily indicative of future testing results. If we fail to successfully complete the development and commercialization of AFREZZA or develop or expand our other product candidates, or are significantly delayed in doing so, our business and results of operations will be harmed and the value of our stock could decline. We have a history of operating losses, we expect to continue to incur losses and we may never become profitable. We are a development stage company with no commercial products. All of our product candidates are still being developed, and all but AFREZZA are still in the early stages of development. Our product candidates will require significant additional development, clinical trials, regulatory clearances and additional investment before they can be commercialized. We cannot be certain when AFREZZA may be approved or if it will be approved. We have never been profitable and, as of December 31, 2010, we had incurred a cumulative net loss of $1.8 billion. The cumulative net loss has resulted principally from costs incurred in our research and development programs, the write-off of goodwill and general operating expenses. We expect to make substantial expenditures and to incur increasing operating losses in the future in order to further develop and commercialize our product candidates, including costs and expenses to complete clinical trials, seek regulatory approvals and market our product candidates, including AFREZZA. This cumulative net loss may increase significantly as we continue development and clinical trial efforts. Our losses have had, and are expected to continue to have, an adverse impact on our working capital, total assets and stockholders’ equity. As of December 31, 2010, we had a stockholders’ deficit of $185.5 million. Our ability to achieve and sustain profitability depends upon obtaining regulatory approvals for and successfully commercializing AFREZZA, either alone or with third parties. We do not currently have the required approvals to market any of our product candidates, and we may not receive them. We may not be profitable even if we succeed in commercializing any of our product candidates. As a result, we cannot be sure when we will become profitable, if at all. If we fail to raise additional capital our financial condition and business would suffer. It is costly to develop therapeutic product candidates and conduct clinical trials for these product candidates. Although we are currently focusing on AFREZZA as our lead product candidate, we had begun to conduct clinical trials for additional product candidates. Our existing capital resources will not be sufficient to support the expense of fully developing and commercializing AFREZZA or fully developing any of our other product candidates. Based upon our current expectations, we believe that our existing capital resources, including the loan arrangement with The Mann Group LLC, an entity controlled by our principal stockholder. but excluding any proceeds to us from the common stock purchase agreement that we entered into with Seaside 88, LP, or Seaside, will enable us to continue planned operations through the fourth quarter of 2011. However, we cannot assure you that our plans will not change or that changed circumstances will not result in the depletion of our capital resources more rapidly than we currently anticipate. In any event, we plan to raise additional funds, whether through the sale of equity or debt securities, the entry into strategic business collaborations, the establishment of other funding facilities, licensing arrangements, asset sales or other means, or an increase in the borrowings available under the loan arrangement with our related party, in order to continue the development and commercialization of AFREZZA and other product candidates and to support our other ongoing activities. However, it may be difficult for us to raise additional funds through these planned measures. As of December 31, 2010, we had a stockholders’ deficit of $185.5 million which may raise concerns about our solvency and affect our ability to raise additional capital. The amount of additional funds we need will depend on a number of factors, including: • the rate of progress and costs of our clinical trials and research and development activities, including costs of procuring clinical materials and operating our manufacturing facilities; • our success in establishing strategic business collaborations and the timing and amount of any payments we might receive from any collaboration we are able to establish; • actions taken by the FDA and other regulatory authorities affecting our products and competitive products; 24 Table of Contents • our degree of success in commercializing AFREZZA; • the emergence of competing technologies and products and other adverse market developments; • the timing and amount of payments we might receive from potential licensees; • the costs of preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights or defending against claims of infringement by others; • the level of our legal expenses, including those expenses associated with the securities class actions and derivative lawsuits filed against us and certain of our executive officers and directors and any settlement or damages payments associated with litigation; • the costs of the restructuring that we implemented following receipt of the Complete Response letter from the FDA in January 2011; • the costs of discontinuing projects and technologies; • the costs of decommissioning existing facilities, if we undertake such activities; and • the costs of performing additional clinical trials requested by the FDA. We have raised capital in the past primarily through the sale of equity and debt securities. We may in the future pursue the sale of additional equity and/or debt securities, or the establishment of other funding facilities. In August 2010, we entered into the Seaside purchase agreement and the Mann purchase agreement for the sale and issuance by us of up to 36,400,000 shares of our common stock over a period of approximately 50 weeks. To date, we have issued and sold a total of 7.0 million shares to Seaside and The Mann Group under these agreements, and could issue and sell an additional 18.2 million shares under both agreements if we are able to satisfy the conditions precedent for sales of shares under these agreements, including the minimum price requirement. Issuances of additional debt or equity securities or the conversion of any of our currently outstanding convertible debt securities into shares of our common stock could impact the rights of the holders of our common stock and may dilute their ownership percentage. We anticipate that we will seek approval by our stockholders of an amendment to our certificate of incorporation to increase the authorized number of shares of our common stock to facilitate any future capital-raising transactions. Such a proposal would require approval by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock. If we were unable to obtain the requisite approval, our ability to raise additional capital by selling our equity securities would be constrained. Moreover, the establishment of other funding facilities may impose restrictions on our operations. These restrictions could include limitations on additional borrowing and specific restrictions on the use of our assets, as well as prohibitions on our ability to create liens, pay dividends, redeem our stock or make investments. We also may seek to raise additional capital by pursuing opportunities for the licensing or sale of certain intellectual property and other assets. We cannot offer assurances, however, that any strategic collaborations, sales of securities or sales or licenses of assets will be available to us on a timely basis or on acceptable terms, if at all. We may be required to enter into relationships with third parties to develop or commercialize products or technologies that we otherwise would have sought to develop independently, and any such relationships may not be on terms as commercially favorable to us as might otherwise be the case. In the event that sufficient additional funds are not obtained through strategic collaboration opportunities, sales of securities, credit facilities, licensing arrangements and/or asset sales on a timely basis, we may be required to reduce expenses through the delay, reduction or curtailment of our projects, including AFREZZA commercialization, or further reduction of costs for facilities and administration. Moreover, if we do not obtain such additional funds, there will be substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern and increased risk of insolvency and loss of investment to the holders of our securities. As of the date hereof, we have not obtained a solvency opinion or otherwise conducted a valuation of our properties to determine whether our debts exceed the fair value of our property within the meaning of applicable solvency laws. If we are or become 25 Table of Contents insolvent, investors in our stock may lose the entire value of their investment. Deteriorating global economic conditions may have an adverse impact on the loan facility with an entity controlled by our principal stockholder, which we currently cannot predict. As widely reported, financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by extreme volatility and declines in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, inability to access capital markets, the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States federal government and other governments. We cannot predict the impact of these events on the loan facility with The Mann Group. If we are unable to draw on this financial resource, our business and financial condition will be adversely affected. If we do not achieve our projected development and commercialization goals in the timeframes we announce and expect, our business would be harmed and the market price of our common stock could decline. For planning purposes, we estimate the timing of the accomplishment of various scientific, clinical, regulatory and other product development goals, which we sometimes refer to as milestones. These milestones may include the commencement or completion of scientific studies and clinical trials and the submission of regulatory filings. From time to time, we publicly announce the expected timing of some of these milestones. All of these milestones are based on a variety of assumptions. The actual timing of the achievement of these milestones can vary dramatically from our estimates, in many cases for reasons beyond our control, depending on numerous factors, including: • the rate of progress, costs and results of our clinical trial and research and development activities, which will be impacted by the level of proficiency and experience of our clinical staff; • our ability to identify and enroll patients who meet clinical trial eligibility criteria; • our ability to access sufficient, reliable and affordable supplies of components used in the manufacture of our product candidates, including insulin and other materials for AFREZZA; • the costs of expanding and maintaining manufacturing operations, as necessary; • the extent of scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions; • the receipt of approvals by our competitors and by us from the FDA and other regulatory agencies; • our ability to enter into sales and marketing collaborations for AFREZZA; and • other actions by regulators. In addition, if we do not obtain sufficient additional funds through sales of securities, strategic collaborations or the license or sale of certain of our assets on a timely basis, we may be required to reduce expenses by delaying, reducing or curtailing our development of AFREZZA. If we fail to commence or complete, or experience delays in or are forced to curtail, our proposed clinical programs or otherwise fail to adhere to our projected development goals in the timeframes we announce and expect (or within the timeframes expected by analysts or investors), our business and results of operations will be harmed and the market price of our common stock will decline. We face substantial competition in the development of our product candidates and may not be able to compete successfully, and our product candidates may be rendered obsolete by rapid technological change. A number of established pharmaceutical companies have or are developing technologies for the treatment of diabetes. We also face substantial competition for the development of our other product candidates. Many of our existing or potential competitors have, or have access to, substantially greater financial, research and development, production, and sales and marketing resources than we do and have a greater depth and number of 26 Table of Contents experienced managers. As a result, our competitors may be better equipped than we are to develop, manufacture, market and sell competing products. In addition, gaining favorable reimbursement is critical to the success of AFREZZA. Many of our competitors have existing infrastructure and relationships with managed care organizations and reimbursement authorities which can be used to their advantage. The rapid rate of scientific discoveries and technological changes could result in one or more of our product candidates becoming obsolete or noncompetitive. Our competitors may develop or introduce new products that render our technology and AFREZZA less competitive, uneconomical or obsolete. Our future success will depend not only on our ability to develop our product candidates but to improve them and keep pace with emerging industry developments. We cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. We also expect to face increasing competition from universities and other non-profit research organizations. These institutions carry out a significant amount of research and development in the areas of diabetes and cancer. These institutions are becoming increasingly aware of the commercial value of their findings and are more active in seeking patent and other proprietary rights as well as licensing revenues. If we fail to enter into a strategic collaboration with respect to AFREZZA, we may not be able to execute on our business model. We have held extensive discussions with a number of pharmaceutical companies concerning a potential strategic business collaboration for AFREZZA. To date we have not reached an agreement on a collaboration with any of these companies. We cannot predict when, if ever, we could conclude an agreement with a partner. There can be no assurance that any such collaboration will be available to us on a timely basis or on acceptable terms. If we are not able to enter into a collaboration on terms that are favorable to us, we may be unable to undertake and fund product development, clinical trials, manufacturing and/or marketing activities at our own expense, which would delay or otherwise impede the commercialization of AFREZZA. We will face similar challenges as we seek to develop our other product candidates. Our current strategy for developing, manufacturing and commercializing our other product candidates includes evaluating the potential for collaborating with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies at some point in the drug development process and for these collaborators to undertake the advanced clinical development and commercialization of our product candidates. It may be difficult for us to find third parties that are willing to enter into collaborations on economic terms that are favorable to us, or at all. Failure to enter into a collaboration with respect to any other product candidate could substantially increase our requirements for capital and force us to substantially reduce our development effort. If we enter into collaborative agreements with respect to AFREZZA and if our third-party collaborators do not perform satisfactorily or if our collaborations fail, development or commercialization of AFREZZA may be delayed and our business could be harmed. We may enter into license agreements, partnerships or other collaborative arrangements to support the financing, development and marketing of AFREZZA. We may also license technology from others to enhance or supplement our technologies. These various collaborators may enter into arrangements that would make them potential competitors. These various collaborators also may breach their agreements with us and delay our progress or fail to perform under their agreements, which could harm our business. If we enter into collaborative arrangements, we will have less control over the timing, planning and other aspects of our clinical trials, and the sale and marketing of AFREZZA and our other product candidates. We cannot offer assurances that we will be able to enter into satisfactory arrangements with third parties as contemplated or that any of our existing or future collaborations will be successful. Continued testing of AFREZZA or our other product candidates may not yield successful results, and even if it does, we may still be unable to commercialize our product candidates. Our research and development programs are designed to test the safety and efficacy of AFREZZA and our other product candidates through extensive nonclinical and clinical testing. We may experience numerous unforeseen 27 Table of Contents events during, or as a result of, the testing process that could delay or prevent commercialization of AFREZZA or any of our other product candidates, including the following: • safety and efficacy results for AFREZZA obtained in our nonclinical and previous clinical testing may be inconclusive or may not be predictive of results that we may obtain in our Affinity 1, Affinity 2 or other clinical trials or following long-term use, and we may as a result be forced to stop developing AFREZZA; • the data collected from clinical trials of AFREZZA or our other product candidates may not reach statistical significance or otherwise be sufficient to support FDA or other regulatory approval; • after reviewing test results, we or any potential collaborators may abandon projects that we previously believed were promising; and • our product candidates may not produce the desired effects or may result in adverse health effects or other characteristics that preclude regulatory approval or limit their commercial use if approved. Forecasts about the effects of the use of drugs, including AFREZZA, over terms longer than the clinical trials or in much larger populations may not be consistent with the clinical results. If use of AFREZZA results in adverse health effects or reduced efficacy or both, the FDA or other regulatory agencies may terminate our ability to market and sell AFREZZA, may narrow the approved indications for use or otherwise require restrictive product labeling or marketing, or may require further clinical trials, which may be time-consuming and expensive and may not produce favorable results. As a result of any of these events, we, any collaborator, the FDA, or any other regulatory authorities, may suspend or terminate clinical trials or marketing of AFREZZA at any time. Any suspension or termination of our clinical trials or marketing activities may harm our business and results of operations and the market price of our common stock may decline. If our suppliers fail to deliver materials and services needed for the production of AFREZZA in a timely and sufficient manner, or they fail to comply with applicable regulations, our business and results of operations would be harmed and the market price of our common stock could decline. For AFREZZA to be commercially viable, we need access to sufficient, reliable and affordable supplies of insulin, our AFREZZA inhaler, the related cartridges and other materials. In June 2009, we purchased from Pfizer, a portion of its inventory of bulk insulin and acquired an option to purchase the remainder of Pfizer’s insulin inventory, in whole or in part, at a specified price to the extent that Pfizer has not otherwise disposed of or used the retained insulin. We obtain FDKP, the precursor raw material for AFREZZA, from a major multinational chemical manufacturer. We have completed a successful validation campaign of FDKP at commercial scale. We can also utilize our in-house chemical manufacturing plant for supplemental capacity. We believe our contract manufacturer has the capacity to supply our current clinical and future commercial requirements. We obtain our intended commercial AFREZZA inhaler and cartridges from a plastic molding company located in the United States. We must rely on our suppliers to comply with relevant regulatory and other legal requirements, including the production of insulin in accordance with the FDA’s current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP for drug products, and the production of the AFREZZA inhaler and related cartridges in accordance with Quality System Regulations, or QSR. The supply of any of these materials may be limited or any of the manufacturers may not meet relevant regulatory requirements, and if we are unable to obtain any of these materials in sufficient amounts, in a timely manner and at reasonable prices, or if we should encounter delays or difficulties in our relationships with manufacturers or suppliers, the development or manufacturing of AFREZZA may be delayed. Any such events could delay market introduction and subsequent sales of AFREZZA and, if so, our business and results of operations will be harmed and the market price of our common stock may decline. We have never manufactured AFREZZA or any other product candidates in commercial quantities, and if we fail to develop an effective manufacturing capability for our product candidates or to engage third-party manufacturers with this capability, we may be unable to commercialize these products. 28 Table of Contents We use our Danbury facility to formulate AFREZZA, fill plastic cartridges with AFREZZA, blister package the cartridges, place the blister packs into foil bags and package three bags plus two inhalers and the package insert as units in 90-unit boxes (and single bag packs for trials). This facility has been qualified and undergone an inspection by the FDA in connection with our original NDA submission that sought approval of AFREZZA using the MedTone (model D) inhaler. We anticipate that our facility may need to undergo further inspection related to our ability to fill and package cartridges for the next-generation inhaler before we can be approved to manufacture commercially. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, especially in scaling up initial production. These problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control and assurance and shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations. If we engage a third-party manufacturer, we would need to transfer our technology to that third-party manufacturer and gain FDA approval, potentially causing delays in product delivery. In addition, our third-party manufacturer may not perform as agreed or may terminate its agreement with us. Additionally, when we manufacture commercial material on a significantly larger production scale than the production scale for clinical trial materials, we are required by the FDA to establish that the results obtained from the clinical trials may reasonably be extrapolated to such commercial material. We have submitted documentation to the FDA to show correlation to the clinical-scale production materials but can provide no assurance that approval will be obtained. Any of these factors could cause us to delay or suspend clinical trials, regulatory submissions or required approvals of our product candidates, could entail higher costs and may result in our being unable to effectively commercialize our products. Furthermore, if we or a third-party manufacturer fail to deliver the required commercial quantities of any product on a timely basis, and at commercially reasonable prices and acceptable quality, and we were unable to promptly find one or more replacement manufacturers capable of production at a substantially equivalent cost, in substantially equivalent volume and quality on a timely basis, we would likely be unable to meet demand for such products and we would lose potential revenues. We and certain of our executive officers and directors have been named as defendants in recently initiated securities class actions and a derivative lawsuit that could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention. We are aware of lawsuits in which we, and certain of our executive officers, have been sued for alleged violations of federal securities laws related to alleged false and misleading statements regarding AFREZZA. We are also aware of a state derivative lawsuit that has been filed against certain of our directors and executive officers. We intend to engage in a vigorous defense of such litigation. If we are not successful in our defense of such litigation, we could be forced to make significant payments to or other settlements with our stockholders and their lawyers, and such payments or settlement arrangements could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Even if such claims are not successful, the litigation could result in substantial costs and significant adverse impact on our reputation and divert management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Our operations might be interrupted by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event. We expect that at least for the foreseeable future, our manufacturing facility in Danbury, Connecticut will be the sole location for the manufacturing of AFREZZA. This facility and the manufacturing equipment we use would be costly to replace and could require substantial lead time to repair or replace. We depend on our facilities and on collaborators, contractors and vendors for the continued operation of our business, some of whom are located in Europe. Natural disasters or other catastrophic events, including interruptions in the supply of natural resources, political and governmental changes, severe weather conditions, wildfires and other fires, explosions, actions of animal rights activists, terrorist attacks, volcanic eruptions, earthquakes and wars could disrupt our operations or those of our collaborators, contractors and vendors. Even though we believe we carry commercially reasonable liability insurance and stage-appropriate business interruption insurance, and our contractors may carry liability insurance that protect us in certain events, we might suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available under our and our contractors’ insurance policies or for which we or our contractors do not have 29 Table of Contents coverage. For example, we are not insured against a terrorist attack. Any natural disaster or catastrophic event could have a significant negative impact on our operations and financial results. Moreover, any such event could delay our research and development programs and adversely affect, which may include stopping, our readiness for commercial production. We deal with hazardous materials and must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business. Our research and development work involves the controlled storage and use of hazardous materials, including chemical, radioactive and biological materials. In addition, our manufacturing operations involve the use of a chemical that is stable and non-hazardous under normal storage conditions, but may form an explosive mixture under certain conditions. Our operations also produce hazardous waste products. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing how we use, manufacture, store, handle and dispose of these materials. Moreover, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from hazardous materials cannot be completely eliminated, and in the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that may result, and any liability could fall outside the coverage or exceed the limits of our insurance. Currently, our general liability policy provides coverage up to $1 million per occurrence and $2 million in the aggregate and is supplemented by an umbrella policy that provides a further $4 million of coverage; however, our insurance policy excludes pollution coverage and we do not carry a separate hazardous materials policy. In addition, we could be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the future. Finally, current or future environmental laws and regulations may impair our research, development or production efforts. When we purchased the facilities located in Danbury, Connecticut in 2001, there was a soil cleanup plan in process. As part of the purchase, we obtained an indemnification from the seller related to the remediation of the soil for all known environmental conditions that existed at the time the seller acquired the property. The seller was, in turn, indemnified for these known environmental conditions by the previous owner. We also received an indemnification from the seller for environmental conditions created during its ownership of the property and for environmental problems unknown at the time that the seller acquired the property. These additional indemnities are limited to the purchase price that we paid for the Danbury facilities. During the construction of our expanded manufacturing facility, we completed the final stages of the soil cleanup plan in the third quarter of 2008, at a cost of approximately $2.25 million. We reached an agreement with the party responsible for their contribution to past clean-up costs and were reimbursed $1.625 million in July 2010. The responsible party has agreed to pay for or indemnify us for any future costs and expenses directly related to the final closure of the environmental remediation. If we are unable to collect these future costs and expenses, if any, from the responsible party, our business and results of operations may be harmed. If we fail to enter into collaborations with third parties, we would be required to establish our own sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, which could impact the commercialization of our products and harm our business. Our products are intended to be used by a large number of healthcare professionals who will require substantial education and support. For example, a broad base of physicians, including primary care physicians and endocrinologists, treat patients with diabetes. A large sales force will be required in order to educate these physicians about the benefits and advantages of AFREZZA and to provide adequate support for them. Therefore, we plan to enter into collaborations with one or more pharmaceutical companies to market, distribute and sell AFREZZA, if it is approved. If we fail to enter into collaborations, we would be required to establish our own direct sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. Establishing these capabilities can be time-consuming and expensive and would delay our ability to commercialize AFREZZA. Because we lack experience in selling pharmaceutical products to the diabetes market, we would be at a disadvantage compared to our potential competitors, all of whom have substantially more resources and experience than we do. For example, several other companies selling products to treat diabetes have existing sales forces in excess of 1,500 sales representatives. We, acting alone, would not initially be able to field a sales force as large as our competitors or provide the same degree of marketing support. Also, we would not be able to match our competitor’s spending levels for pre-launch marketing preparation, including medical education. We cannot assure you that we will succeed in entering into acceptable collaborations, 30 Table of Contents that any such collaboration will be successful or, if not, that we will successfully develop our own sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. If any product that we may develop does not become widely accepted by physicians, patients, third-party payers and the healthcare community, we may be unable to generate significant revenue, if any. AFREZZA and our other product candidates are new and unproven. Even if any of our product candidates obtain regulatory approval, they may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, third-party payers and the healthcare community. Failure to achieve market acceptance would limit our ability to generate revenue and would adversely affect our results of operations. The degree of market acceptance of AFREZZA and our other product candidates will depend on many factors, including the: • claims for which FDA approval can be obtained, including superiority claims; • perceived advantages and disadvantages of competitive products; • willingness of the healthcare community and patients to adopt new technologies; • ability to manufacture the product in sufficient quantities with acceptable quality and cost; • perception of patients and the healthcare community, including third-party payers, regarding the safety, efficacy and benefits compared to competing products or therapies; • convenience and ease of administration relative to existing treatment methods; • pricing and reimbursement relative to other treatment therapeutics and methods; and • marketing and distribution support. Because of these and other factors, any product that we may develop may not gain market acceptance, which would materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If third-party payers do not reimburse consumers for our products, our products might not be used or purchased, which would adversely affect our revenues. Our future revenues and potential for profitability may be affected by the continuing efforts of governments and third-party payers to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare through various means. For example, in certain foreign markets the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In the United States, there has been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar governmental controls. We cannot be certain what legislative proposals will be adopted or what actions federal, state or private payers for healthcare goods and services may take in response to any drug pricing reform proposals or legislation. Such reforms may make it difficult to complete the development and testing of AFREZZA and our other product candidates, and therefore may limit our ability to generate revenues from sales of our product candidates and achieve profitability. Further, to the extent that such reforms have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and profitability of other companies that are prospective collaborators for some of our product candidates, our ability to commercialize our product candidates under development may be adversely affected. In the United States and elsewhere, sales of prescription pharmaceuticals still depend in large part on the availability of reimbursement to the consumer from third-party payers, such as governmental and private insurance plans. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. In addition, because each third-party payer individually approves reimbursement, obtaining these approvals is a time-consuming and costly process. We would be required to provide scientific and clinical support for the use of any product to each third-party payer separately with no assurance that approval would be obtained. This process could delay the market acceptance of any product and could have a negative effect on our future revenues and operating 31 Table of Contents results. Even if we succeed in bringing one or more products to market, we cannot be certain that any such products would be considered cost-effective or that reimbursement to the consumer would be available, in which case our business and results of operations would be harmed and the market price of our common stock could decline. If product liability claims are brought against us, we may incur significant liabilities and suffer damage to our reputation. The testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of AFREZZA and our other product candidates expose us to potential product liability claims. A product liability claim may result in substantial judgments as well as consume significant financial and management resources and result in adverse publicity, decreased demand for a product, injury to our reputation, withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers and loss of revenues. We currently carry worldwide liability insurance in the amount of $10 million. We believe these limits are reasonable to cover us from potential damages arising from current and previous clinical trials of AFREZZA. In addition, we carry local policies per trial in each country in which we conduct clinical trials that require us to carry coverage based on local statutory requirements. We intend to obtain product liability coverage for commercial sales in the future if AFREZZA is approved. However, we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise, and because insurance coverage in our industry can be very expensive and difficult to obtain, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain sufficient coverage at an acceptable cost, if at all. If losses from such claims exceed our liability insurance coverage, we may ourselves incur substantial liabilities. If we are required to pay a product liability claim our business and results of operations would be harmed and the market price of our common stock may decline. If we lose any key employees or scientific advisors, our operations and our ability to execute our business strategy could be materially harmed. In order to commercialize our product candidates successfully, we will be required to expand our work force, particularly in the areas of manufacturing, clinical trials management, regulatory affairs, business development, and sales and marketing. These activities will require the addition of new personnel, including management, and the development of additional expertise by existing personnel. We face intense competition for qualified employees among companies in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries. Our success depends upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees. We may be unable to attract and retain these individuals on acceptable terms, if at all. The loss of the services of any principal member of our management and scientific staff could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our scientific and business objectives. All of our employees are “at will” and we currently do not have employment agreements with any of the principal members of our management or scientific staff, and we do not have key person life insurance to cover the loss of any of these individuals. Replacing key employees may be difficult and time-consuming because of the limited number of individuals in our industry with the skills and experience required to develop, gain regulatory approval of and commercialize our product candidates successfully. We have relationships with scientific advisors at academic and other institutions to conduct research or assist us in formulating our research, development or clinical strategy. These scientific advisors are not our employees and may have commitments to, and other obligations with, other entities that may limit their availability to us. We have limited control over the activities of these scientific advisors and can generally expect these individuals to devote only limited time to our activities. Failure of any of these persons to devote sufficient time and resources to our programs could harm our business. In addition, these advisors are not prohibited from, and may have arrangements with, other companies to assist those companies in developing technologies that may compete with our product candidates. If our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is unable to devote sufficient time and attention to our business, our operations and our ability to execute our business strategy could be materially harmed. Alfred Mann, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, is involved in many other business and charitable activities. As a result, the time and attention Mr. Mann devotes to the operation of our business varies, and he may not expend the same time or focus on our activities as other, similarly situated chief executive officers. If Mr. Mann 32 Table of Contents is unable to devote the time and attention necessary to running our business, we may not be able to execute our business strategy and our business could be materially harmed. If our internal controls over financial reporting are not considered effective, our business and stock price could be adversely affected. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in our annual report on Form 10-K for that fiscal year. Section 404 also requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, and report on, our internal controls over financial reporting. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our internal controls over financial reporting will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud involving a company have been, or will be, detected. The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. We cannot assure you that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify a material weakness in our internal controls in the future. A material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting would require management and our independent registered public accounting firm to evaluate our internal controls as ineffective. If our internal controls over financial reporting are not considered effective, we may experience a loss of public confidence, which could have an adverse effect on our business and on the market price of our common stock. RISKS RELATED TO REGULATORY APPROVALS Our product candidates must undergo rigorous nonclinical and clinical testing and we must obtain regulatory approvals, which could be costly and time-consuming and subject us to unanticipated delays or prevent us from marketing any products. Our research and development activities, as well as the manufacturing and marketing of our product candidates, including AFREZZA, are subject to regulation, including regulation for safety, efficacy and quality, by the FDA in the United States and comparable authorities in other countries. FDA regulations and the regulations of comparable foreign regulatory authorities are wide-ranging and govern, among other things: • product design, development, manufacture and testing; • product labeling; • product storage and shipping; • pre-market clearance or approval; • advertising and promotion; and • product sales and distribution. Clinical testing can be costly and take many years, and the outcome is uncertain and susceptible to varying interpretations. We cannot be certain if or when the FDA might request additional studies, under what conditions such studies might be requested, or what the size or length of any such studies might be. The clinical trials of our 33 Table of Contents product candidates may not be completed on schedule, the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies may order us to stop or modify our research, or these agencies may not ultimately approve any of our product candidates for commercial sale. The data collected from our clinical trials may not be sufficient to support regulatory approval of our various product candidates, including AFREZZA. Even if we believe the data collected from our clinical trials are sufficient, the FDA has substantial discretion in the approval process and may disagree with our interpretation of the data. Our failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of any of our product candidates would delay or prevent regulatory approval of our product candidates, which could prevent us from achieving profitability. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials and manufacturing and marketing of our product candidates, including AFREZZA, outside the United States vary widely from country to country. Foreign approvals may take longer to obtain than FDA approvals and can require, among other things, additional testing and different clinical trial designs. Foreign regulatory approval processes include essentially all of the risks associated with the FDA approval processes. Some of those agencies also must approve prices of the products. Approval of a product by the FDA does not ensure approval of the same product by the health authorities of other countries. In addition, changes in regulatory policy in the United States or in foreign countries for product approval during the period of product development and regulatory agency review of each submitted new application may cause delays or rejections. The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory approvals, including foreign approvals, is expensive, often takes many years and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the products involved. We are not aware of any precedent for the successful commercialization of products based on our technology. In January 2006, the FDA approved the first pulmonary insulin product, Exubera. This approval has had an impact on and notwithstanding the voluntary withdrawal of the product from the market by its manufacturer could still impact the development and registration of AFREZZA in different ways. For example, Exubera may be used as a reference for safety and efficacy evaluations of AFREZZA, and the approval standards set for Exubera may be applied to other products that follow, including AFREZZA. The FDA has advised us that it will regulate AFREZZA as a “combination product” because of the complex nature of the system that includes the combination of a new drug (AFREZZA) and a new medical device (the inhaler used to administer the insulin). The FDA indicated that the review of our NDA for AFREZZA will involve several separate review groups of the FDA including: (1) the Metabolic and Endocrine Drug Products Division; (2) the Pulmonary Drug Products Division; and (3) the Center for Devices and Radiological Health, which reviews medical devices. The Metabolic and Endocrine Drug Products Division is the lead group and obtains consulting reviews from the other two FDA groups. We can make no assurances at this time about what impact FDA review by multiple groups will have on the approvability of our product or that we will obtain approval of the NDA in a timely manner or at all. Also, questions that have been raised about the safety of marketed drugs generally, including pertaining to the lack of adequate labeling, may result in increased cautiousness by the FDA in reviewing new drugs based on safety, efficacy, or other regulatory considerations and may result in significant delays in obtaining regulatory approvals. Such regulatory considerations may also result in the imposition of more restrictive drug labeling or marketing requirements as conditions of approval, which may significantly affect the marketability of our drug products. FDA review of AFREZZA as a combination product may lengthen the product development and regulatory approval process, increase our development costs and delay or prevent the commercialization of AFREZZA. Our product candidates that are currently in development for the treatment of cancer also face similar obstacles and costs. We have only limited experience in filing and pursuing applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals, which may impede our ability to obtain timely approvals from the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies, if at all. We will not be able to commercialize AFREZZA or any other product candidates until we have obtained regulatory approval. Until we prepared and submitted our NDA for AFREZZA, we had no experience as a company in late-stage regulatory filings, such as preparing and submitting NDAs, which may place us at risk of delays, overspending and human resources inefficiencies. Any delay in obtaining, or inability to obtain, regulatory approval could harm our business. If we do not comply with regulatory requirements at any stage, whether before or after marketing approval is obtained, we may be subject to criminal prosecution, fined or forced to remove a product from the market or 34 Table of Contents experience other adverse consequences, including restrictions or delays in obtaining regulatory marketing approval. Even if we comply with regulatory requirements, we may not be able to obtain the labeling claims necessary or desirable for product promotion. We may also be required to undertake post-marketing trials. In addition, if we or other parties identify adverse effects after any of our products are on the market, or if manufacturing problems occur, regulatory approval may be withdrawn and a reformulation of our products, additional clinical trials, changes in labeling of, or indications of use for, our products and/or additional marketing applications may be required. If we encounter any of the foregoing problems, our business and results of operations will be harmed and the market price of our common stock may decline. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, such approval may be limited and we will be subject to stringent, ongoing government regulation. Even if regulatory authorities approve any of our product candidates, they could approve less than the full scope of uses or labeling that we seek or otherwise require special warnings or other restrictions on use or marketing or could require potentially costly post-marketing follow-up clinical trials. Regulatory authorities may limit the segments of the diabetes population to which we or others may market AFREZZA or limit the target population for our other product candidates. Based on currently available clinical studies, we believe that AFREZZA may have certain advantages over currently approved insulin products including its approximation of the natural early insulin secretion normally seen in healthy individuals following the beginning of a meal. Nonetheless, there are no assurances that these or any other advantages of AFREZZA will be agreed to by the FDA or otherwise included in product labeling or advertising and, as a result, AFREZZA may not have our expected competitive advantages when compared to other insulin products. The manufacture, marketing and sale of any of our product candidates will be subject to stringent and ongoing government regulation. The FDA may also withdraw product approvals if problems concerning the safety or efficacy of a product appear following approval. We cannot be sure that FDA and United States Congressional initiatives pertaining to ensuring the safety of marketed drugs or other developments pertaining to the pharmaceutical industry will not adversely affect our operations. We also are required to register our establishments and list our products with the FDA and certain state agencies. We and any third-party manufacturers or suppliers must continually adhere to federal regulations setting forth requirements, known as cGMP (for drugs) and QSR (for medical devices), and their foreign equivalents, which are enforced by the FDA and other national regulatory bodies through their facilities inspection programs. If our facilities, or the facilities of our manufacturers or suppliers, cannot pass a preapproval plant inspection, the FDA will not approve the marketing of our product candidates. In complying with cGMP and foreign regulatory requirements, we and any of our potential third-party manufacturers or suppliers will be obligated to expend time, money and effort in production, record-keeping and quality control to ensure that our products meet applicable specifications and other requirements. QSR requirements also impose extensive testing, control and documentation requirements. State regulatory agencies and the regulatory agencies of other countries have similar requirements. In addition, we will be required to comply with regulatory requirements of the FDA, state regulatory agencies and the regulatory agencies of other countries concerning the reporting of adverse events and device malfunctions, corrections and removals (e.g., recalls), promotion and advertising and general prohibitions against the manufacture and distribution of adulterated and misbranded devices. Failure to comply with these regulatory requirements could result in civil fines, product seizures, injunctions and/or criminal prosecution of responsible individuals and us. Any such actions would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our suppliers will be subject to FDA inspection before the agency approves an NDA for AFREZZA. When we are required to find a new or additional supplier of insulin, we will be required to evaluate the new supplier’s ability to provide insulin that meets regulatory requirements, including cGMP requirements as well as our specifications and quality requirements, which would require significant time and expense and could delay the manufacturing and future commercialization of AFREZZA. We also depend on suppliers for other materials that comprise AFREZZA, including our AFREZZA inhaler and cartridges. Each supplier must comply with relevant regulatory requirements including QSR, and is subject to inspection by the FDA. There can be no assurance, in the 35 Table of Contents conduct of an inspection of any of our suppliers, that the agency would find that the supplier substantially complies with the QSR or cGMP requirements, where applicable. If we or any potential third-party manufacturer or supplier fails to comply with these requirements or comparable requirements in foreign countries, regulatory authorities may subject us to regulatory action, including criminal prosecutions, fines and suspension of the manufacture of our products. Reports of side effects or safety concerns in related technology fields or in other companies’ clinical trials could delay or prevent us from obtaining regulatory approval or negatively impact public perception of our product candidates. At present, there are a number of clinical trials being conducted by us and other pharmaceutical companies involving insulin delivery systems. If we discover that AFREZZA is associated with a significantly increased frequency of adverse events, or if other pharmaceutical companies announce that they observed frequent adverse events in their trials involving insulin therapies, we could encounter delays in the timing of our clinical trials or difficulties in obtaining approval of AFREZZA. As well, the public perception of AFREZZA might be adversely affected, which could harm our business and results of operations and cause the market price of our common stock to decline, even if the concern relates to another company’s products or product candidates. There are also a number of clinical trials being conducted by other pharmaceutical companies involving compounds similar to, or competitive with, our other product candidates. Adverse results reported by these other companies in their clinical trials could delay or prevent us from obtaining regulatory approval or negatively impact public perception of our product candidates, which could harm our business and results of operations and cause the market price of our common stock to decline. RISKS RELATED TO INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights, we may not be able to compete effectively, or operate profitably. Our commercial success depends, in large part, on our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property protection for our technology. Our ability to do so will depend on, among other things, complex legal and factual questions, and it should be noted that the standards regarding intellectual property rights in our fields are still evolving. We attempt to protect our proprietary technology through a combination of patents, trade secrets and confidentiality agreements. We own a number of domestic and international patents, have a number of domestic and international patent applications pending and have licenses to additional patents. We cannot assure you that our patents and licenses will successfully preclude others from using our technologies, and we could incur substantial costs in seeking enforcement of our proprietary rights against infringement. Even if issued, the patents may not give us an advantage over competitors with alternative technologies. Moreover, the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability and it is uncertain how much protection, if any, will be afforded by our patents. A third party may challenge the validity or enforceability of a patent after its issuance by various proceedings such as oppositions in foreign jurisdictions or re-examinations in the United States. If we attempt to enforce our patents, they may be challenged in court where they could be held invalid, unenforceable, or have their breadth narrowed to an extent that would destroy their value. We also rely on unpatented technology, trade secrets, know-how and confidentiality agreements. We require our officers, employees, consultants and advisors to execute proprietary information and invention and assignment agreements upon commencement of their relationships with us. We also execute confidentiality agreements with outside collaborators. There can be no assurance, however, that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for our inventions, trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information. If any trade secret, know-how or other technology not protected by a patent were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 36 Table of Contents If we become involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents or the patents of our collaborators or licensors, we would be required to devote substantial time and resources to prosecute or defend such proceedings. Competitors may infringe our patents or the patents of our collaborators or licensors. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file infringement claims, which can be expensive and time-consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover its technology. A court may also decide to award us a royalty from an infringing party instead of issuing an injunction against the infringing activity. An adverse determination of any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Interference proceedings brought by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patent applications or those of our collaborators or licensors. Litigation or interference proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and be a distraction to our management. We may not be able, alone or with our collaborators and licensors, to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect such rights as fully as in the United States. We may not prevail in any litigation or interference proceeding in which we are involved. Even if we do prevail, these proceedings can be very expensive and distract our management. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, the market price of our common stock may decline. If our technologies conflict with the proprietary rights of others, we may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings and we could face substantial monetary damages and be precluded from commercializing our products, which would materially harm our business. Over the past three decades the number of patents issued to biotechnology companies has expanded dramatically. As a result it is not always clear to industry participants, including us, which patents cover the multitude of biotechnology product types. Ultimately, the courts must determine the scope of coverage afforded by a patent and the courts do not always arrive at uniform conclusions. A patent owner may claim that we are making, using, selling or offering for sale an invention covered by the owner’s patents and may go to court to stop us from engaging in such activities. Such litigation is not uncommon in our industry. Patent lawsuits can be expensive and would consume time and other resources. There is a risk that a court would decide that we are infringing a third party’s patents and would order us to stop the activities covered by the patents, including the commercialization of our products. In addition, there is a risk that we would have to pay the other party damages for having violated the other party’s patents (which damages may be increased, as well as attorneys’ fees ordered paid, if infringement is found to be willful), or that we will be required to obtain a license from the other party in order to continue to commercialize the affected products, or to design our products in a manner that does not infringe a valid patent. We may not prevail in any legal action, and a required license under the patent may not be available on acceptable terms or at all, requiring cessation of activities that were found to infringe a valid patent. We also may not be able to develop a non-infringing product design on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Moreover, certain components of AFREZZA and/or our cancer vaccines may be manufactured outside the United States and imported into the United States. As such, third parties could file complaints under 19 U.S.C. Section 337(a)(1)(B), or a 337 action, with the International Trade Commission, or the ITC. A 337 action can be expensive and would consume time and other resources. There is a risk that the ITC would decide that we are infringing a third party’s patents and either enjoin us from importing the infringing products or parts thereof into the United States or set a bond in an amount that the ITC considers would offset our competitive advantage from the 37 Table of Contents continued importation during the statutory review period. The bond could be up to 100% of the value of the patented products. We may not prevail in any legal action, and a required license under the patent may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, resulting in a permanent injunction preventing any further importation of the infringing products or parts thereof into the United States. We also may not be able to develop a non-infringing product design on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Although we own a number of domestic and foreign patents and patent applications relating to AFREZZA and cancer vaccine products under development, we have identified certain third-party patents having claims relating to pulmonary insulin delivery that may trigger an allegation of infringement upon the commercial manufacture and sale of AFREZZA, as well as third-party patents disclosing methods of use and compositions of matter related to cancer vaccines that also may trigger an allegation of infringement upon the commercial manufacture and sale of our cancer immunotherapy. If a court were to determine that our insulin products or cancer therapies were infringing any of these patent rights, we would have to establish with the court that these patents were invalid or unenforceable in order to avoid legal liability for infringement of these patents. However, proving patent invalidity or unenforceability can be difficult because issued patents are presumed valid. Therefore, in the event that we are unable to prevail in a non-infringement or invalidity action we will have to either acquire the third-party patents outright or seek a royalty-bearing license. Royalty-bearing licenses effectively increase production costs and therefore may materially affect product profitability. Furthermore, should the patent holder refuse to either assign or license us the infringed patents, it may be necessary to cease manufacturing the product entirely and/or design around the patents, if possible. In either event, our business would be harmed and our profitability could be materially adversely impacted. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, the market price of our common stock may decline. In addition, patent litigation may divert the attention of key personnel and we may not have sufficient resources to bring these actions to a successful conclusion. At the same time, some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. An adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products or result in substantial monetary damages, which would adversely affect our business and results of operations and cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We may not obtain trademark registrations for our potential trade names. We have not selected trade names for some of our product candidates; therefore, we have not filed trademark registrations for all of our potential trade names for our product candidates in all jurisdictions, nor can we assure that we will be granted registration of those potential trade names for which we have filed. Although we intend to defend any opposition to our trademark registrations, no assurance can be given that any of our trademarks will be registered in the United States or elsewhere or that the use of any of our trademarks will confer a competitive advantage in the marketplace. Furthermore, even if we are successful in our trademark registrations, the FDA has its own process for drug nomenclature and its own views concerning appropriate proprietary names. It also has the power, even after granting market approval, to request a company to reconsider the name for a product because of evidence of confusion in the marketplace. We cannot assure you that the FDA or any other regulatory authority will approve of any of our trademarks or will not request reconsideration of one of our trademarks at some time in the future. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK Our stock price is volatile. The stock market, particularly in recent years, has experienced significant volatility particularly with respect to pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks, and this trend may continue. The volatility of pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks often does not relate to the operating performance of the companies represented by the stock. Our business and the market price of our common stock may be influenced by a large variety of factors, including: 38 Table of Contents • the progress and results of our clinical trials; • general economic, political or stock market conditions; • legislative developments; • announcements by us or our competitors concerning clinical trial results, acquisitions, strategic alliances, technological innovations, newly approved commercial products, product discontinuations, or other developments; • the availability of critical materials used in developing and manufacturing AFREZZA or other product candidates; • developments or disputes concerning our patents or proprietary rights; • the expense and time associated with, and the extent of our ultimate success in, securing regulatory approvals; • announcements by us concerning our financial condition or operating performance; • changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial condition or operating performance; • general market conditions and fluctuations for emerging growth and pharmaceutical market sectors; • the issuance and sale of our common stock pursuant to the Seaside purchase agreement and the Mann purchase agreement over the terms of these agreements; • sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders; • the status of litigation against us and certain of our executive officers and directors; • the existence of, and the issuance of shares of our common stock pursuant to, the share lending agreement and the short sales of our common stock effected in connection with the recently-completed sale of our 5.75% convertible notes due 2015; and • discussion of AFREZZA, our other product candidates, competitors’ products, or our stock price by the financial and scientific press, the healthcare community and online investor communities such as chat rooms. In particular, statements about us and our investigational products that appear on interactive websites that permit users to generate content anonymously or under a pseudonym may be difficult to verify and statements attributed to company officials may, in fact, have originated elsewhere. Any of these risks, as well as other factors, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. If other biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies or the securities markets in general encounter problems, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Public companies in general and companies included on the Nasdaq Global Market in particular have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. There has been particular volatility in the market prices of securities of biotechnology and other life sciences companies, and the market prices of these companies have often fluctuated because of problems or successes in a given market segment or because investor interest has shifted to other segments. These broad market and industry factors may cause the market price of our common stock to decline, regardless of our operating performance. We have no control over this volatility and can only focus our efforts on our own operations, and even these may be affected due to the state of the capital markets. 39 Table of Contents In the past, following periods of large price declines in the public market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against that company. Litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of management’s attention and resources, which would hurt our business. Any adverse determination in litigation could also subject us to significant liabilities. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and principal stockholder can individually control our direction and policies, and his interests may be adverse to the interests of our other stockholders. After his death, his stock will be left to his funding foundations for distribution to various charities, and we cannot assure you of the manner in which those entities will manage their holdings. At December 31, 2010, Mr. Mann beneficially owned approximately 39.2% of our outstanding shares of capital stock. By virtue of his holdings, Mr. Mann may be able to continue to effectively control the election of the members of our board of directors, our management and our affairs and prevent corporate transactions such as mergers, consolidations or the sale of all or substantially all of our assets that may be favorable from our standpoint or that of our other stockholders or cause a transaction that we or our other stockholders may view as unfavorable. Subject to compliance with United States federal and state securities laws, Mr. Mann is free to sell the shares of our stock he holds at any time. Upon his death, we have been advised by Mr. Mann that his shares of our capital stock will be left to the Alfred E. Mann Medical Research Organization, or AEMMRO, and AEM Foundation for Biomedical Engineering, or AEMFBE, not-for-profit medical research foundations that serve as funding organizations for Mr. Mann’s various charities, including the Alfred Mann Foundation, or AMF, and the Alfred Mann Institutes at the University of Southern California, the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, and Purdue University, and that may serve as funding organizations for any other charities that he may establish. The AEMMRO is a membership foundation consisting of six members, including Mr. Mann, his wife, three of his children and Dr. Joseph Schulman, the chief scientist of the AEMFBE. The AEMFBE is a membership foundation consisting of five members, including Mr. Mann, his wife, and the same three of his children. Although we understand that the members of AEMMRO and AEMFBE have been advised of Mr. Mann’s objectives for these foundations, once Mr. Mann’s shares of our capital stock become the property of the foundations, we cannot assure you as to how those shares will be distributed or how they will be voted. The future sale of our common stock or the conversion of our senior convertible notes into common stock could negatively affect our stock price. As of December 31, 2010, we had 127,793,178 shares of common stock outstanding. Substantially all of these shares are available for public sale, subject in some cases to volume and other limitations or delivery of a prospectus. If our common stockholders sell substantial amounts of common stock in the public market, or the market perceives that such sales may occur, the market price of our common stock may decline. Likewise the issuance of additional shares of our common stock upon the conversion of some or all of our senior convertible notes could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of these notes may encourage short selling of our common stock by market participants. Furthermore, if we were to include in a company-initiated registration statement shares held by our stockholders pursuant to the exercise of their registration rights, the sale of those shares could impair our ability to raise needed capital by depressing the price at which we could sell our common stock. On August 10, 2010, we entered into the Seaside purchase agreement and the Mann purchase agreement, which together provide for the sale and issuance by us of up to 36,400,000 shares of our common stock over a period of approximately 50 weeks. As of December 31, 2010, we issued and sold a total of 4,200,000 shares under these agreements. The future issuance of shares of our common stock pursuant to these two agreements, or the expectation that these issuances will occur, may further depress the price of our common stock. In addition, we will need to raise substantial additional capital in the future to fund our operations. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities or additional convertible debt, the market price of our common stock may decline and our existing stockholders may experience significant dilution. 40 Table of Contents We have reserved for future issuance substantially all of our authorized but unissued shares of common stock, which may impair our ability to conduct future financing and other transactions. Our certificate of incorporation currently authorizes us to issue up to 200,000,000 shares of common stock and 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock. As of December 31, 2010, we had a total of 72,206,822 shares of common stock that were authorized but unissued. We have reserved substantially all of our authorized but unissued shares for future issuance pursuant to outstanding equity awards, our equity plans, our 3.75% senior convertible notes due 2013, our 5.75% senior convertible notes due 2015 and the Seaside purchase agreement and Mann purchase agreement. As a result, our ability to issue shares of common stock other than pursuant to existing arrangements will be limited until such time, if ever, that we are able to amend our certificate of incorporation to further increase our authorized shares of common stock or shares currently reserved for issuance otherwise become available (for example, due to the termination of the underlying agreement to issue the shares). If we are unable to enter into new arrangements to issue shares of our common stock or securities convertible or exercisable into shares of our common stock, our ability to complete equity-based financings or other transactions that involve the potential issuance of our common stock or securities convertible or exercisable into our common stock, will be limited. In lieu of issuing common stock or securities convertible into our common stock in any future equity financing transactions, we may need to issue some or all of our authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock, which would likely have superior rights, preferences and privileges to those of our common stock, or we may need to issue debt that is not convertible into shares of our common stock, which may require us to grant security interests in our assets and property and/or impose covenants upon us that restrict our business. If we are unable to issue additional shares of common stock or securities convertible or exercisable into our common stock, our ability to enter into strategic transactions such as acquisitions of companies or technologies, may also be limited. If we propose to amend our certificate of incorporation to increase our authorized shares of common stock, such a proposal would require the approval by the holders of a majority of our outstanding shares of common stock, and we cannot assure you that such a proposal would be adopted. If we are unable to complete financing, strategic or other transactions due to our inability to issue additional shares of common stock or securities convertible or exercisable into our common stock, our financial condition and business prospects may be materially harmed. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. We are incorporated in Delaware. Certain anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law and in our certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as currently in effect, may make a change of control of our company more difficult, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our anti-takeover provisions include provisions such as a prohibition on stockholder actions by written consent, the authority of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, and supermajority voting requirements for specified actions. In addition, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us in certain circumstances. These provisions may delay or prevent an acquisition of us, even if the acquisition may be considered beneficial by some of our stockholders. In addition, they may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. Because we do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future, you must rely on stock appreciation for any return on your investment. We have paid no cash dividends on any of our capital stock to date, and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, we do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future, and payment of cash dividends, if any, will also depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and other factors and will be at the discretion of our board of directors. Furthermore, we may in the future become subject to contractual restrictions on, or prohibitions against, the payment of dividends. Accordingly, the success of your investment in our common stock will likely depend entirely upon any future appreciation. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate or maintain its current price. You could lose the entire value of your investment in our common stock. 41 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 