Item 1A. Risk Factors Our operations are subject to a number of risks including those listed below and discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (particularly in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations). If any of the events described in the following risk factors actually occur, it could materially affect our results of operations and financial condition. Risks related to our industry We are subject to the cyclical changes caused by general global and industry conditions. The demand and pricing of our products, particularly fluff pulp, are influenced by the much larger market for papermaking pulps which is highly cyclical. The markets for most cellulose and absorbent products are sensitive to both changes in general global economic conditions and to changes in industry capacity. Both of these factors are beyond our control. The price of these products can fluctuate significantly when supply and demand become imbalanced for any reason. Our financial performance can be heavily influenced by these pricing fluctuations and the general cyclicality of the industries in which we compete. Furthermore, a general economic downturn in a particular country or on an international scale could reduce the overall sales within our industry, thereby likely reducing our sales. We cannot assure you that current prices will be maintained, that any price increases will be achieved, or that industry capacity utilization will reach favorable levels. The demand, cost and prices for our products may fluctuate substantially in the future and downturns in market conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Competition and surplus capacity could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The markets for our products are all competitive. Actions by competitors can affect our ability to sell our products and can affect the volatility of the prices at which our products are sold. Other actions by competitors, such as reducing costs or adding low-cost capacity, may adversely affect our competitive position in the products we manufacture and, consequently, our sales, operating income and cash flows. New competitors and the expansion of existing competitors could create a surplus capacity of the goods that we sell, which might cause us to either lose sales or lower the prices of our goods. Actions by our competitors and any surplus capacity could cause our sales and profits to decline, affecting our operating results and financial condition. 9 Market fluctuations in the availability and cost of energy and raw materials are beyond our control and may adversely affect our business. Energy, chemicals, and raw material costs, including fuel oil, natural gas, electricity, cotton linters, wood, and caustic and other chemicals are a significant operating expense. The prices and availability of raw materials and energy can be volatile and are susceptible to rapid and substantial changes due to factors beyond our control such as changing economic conditions, currency fluctuations, weather conditions, political unrest and instability in energy-producing nations, and supply and demand considerations. We have raw material pricing and availability issues at our Memphis and Americana specialty fiber plants. We have the option to import cotton linters for our Memphis specialty cotton fiber production in order to minimize the impact of unexpected fluctuations in North American cotton fiber availability. We have limited production at our Americana, Brazil and Memphis specialty fibers facilities because of raw material constraints. This raw material availability constraint will limit growth and continue to impact our production costs. Energy and chemical costs which had increased substantially in recent years, resulting in increased production costs for our products, have recently moderated. Increases in production costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to increased costs, it is possible that a disruption in supply of natural gas or other fossil fuels could limit our ability to operate our facilities. Market fluctuations in the availability and cost of transportation are beyond our control and may adversely impact our business. Our business depends on the transportation of a large number of products, both domestically and internationally. An increase in transportation rates or fuel surcharges and/or a reduction in transport availability in truck, rail and international shipping could negatively impact our ability to provide products to our customers in a timely manner. An increase in international shipping rates or fuel surcharges or a reduction in the availability of vessels could negatively impact our costs and our ability to provide products to our international customers in a timely manner. While we have had adequate transportation availability, there is no assurance that such availability can continue to be effectively managed in the future. Risks related to our business Exposure to commodity products creates volatility in pricing and profits. If our research and development efforts do not result in the commercialization of new, proprietary products, we will continue to have significant exposure to fluff pulp, which could result in volatility in sales prices and profits. Our indebtedness levels could adversely affect us. As of June 30, 2011, our total debt was approximately $96.9 million and our total debt, as a percentage of total capitalization, was 14.3%. Our level of debt could have a significant adverse future effect on our business if it were to increase significantly from current levels. For example: - we may have limited ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our growth strategy, research and development costs or other purposes; - a substantial portion of our cash flow may be used to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes; - our senior secured credit facility covenants require us to meet certain financial objectives and impose other restrictions on business operations. These covenants limit our ability to borrow additional funds or dispose of assets and limit our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business; - we may be more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; - our borrowings under our senior secured credit facility are at floating rates of interest, which could result in higher interest expense in the event of an increase in interest rates. Our ability to refinance indebtedness when necessary depends on our financial and operating performance, each of which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors beyond our control. 10 We cannot assure you that we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that we will be able to obtain sufficient funding to satisfy all of our obligations. If we are unable to pay our debts, we will be required to pursue one or more alternative strategies, such as selling assets, refinancing or restructuring our indebtedness or selling additional equity capital. However, we cannot assure you that any alternative strategies will be feasible at the time or prove adequate. Also, certain alternative strategies will require the consent of our senior secured lenders before we engage in any such strategy. Changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations could adversely affect our cost of financing and have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. From time to time, credit rating agencies rate our debt securities on factors that include our operating results, actions that we take, their view of the general outlook for our industry and their view of the general outlook for the economy. Actions taken by the rating agencies can include maintaining, upgrading or downgrading the current rating or placing the company on a watch list for possible future downgrading. Downgrading the credit rating of our debt securities or placing us on a watch list for possible future downgrading could limit our access to the credit markets, increase our cost of financing, and have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. A material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales or negatively affect our results of operation and financial condition. Any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including: - unscheduled maintenance outages; - prolonged power failures; - an equipment failure; - a chemical spill or release; - explosion of a boiler; - labor difficulties; - disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including roads, bridges, railroad tracks and tunnels; - fires, floods, windstorms, earthquakes, hurricanes or other catastrophes; - terrorism or threats of terrorism; - governmental regulations; and - other operational problems. We may be required to pay significant export taxes or countervailing and anti-dumping duties for exported products. We may experience reduced revenues and margins on some of our businesses as a result of export taxes or countervailing and anti-dumping duty applications. It is possible that countervailing duty and antidumping tariffs, or similar types of tariffs could be imposed on us in the future. These tariffs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial results and financial condition. 11 The impacts of climate-related initiatives, at the international, federal and state levels, remain uncertain at this time. Currently, there are numerous international, federal and state-level initiatives and proposals addressing domestic and global climate issues. Within the U.S., most of these proposals would regulate and/or tax, in one fashion or another, the production of carbon dioxide and other “greenhouse gases” to facilitate the reduction of carbon compound emissions to the atmosphere, and provide tax and other incentives to produce and use more “clean energy.” For example, in 2009 the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Markey-Waxman bill (HR 2454), which would establish a so-called “cap and trade” regime and new permitting requirements to regulate greenhouse gas generation, as well as provide an incentive for the production and use of clean energy. To date, the U.S. Senate has not passed any comparable legislation. In sum, we believe that the potential for climate change legislation on the federal level is unknown. In addition, in late 2009, the U.S. EPA issued an “endangerment finding” under the Clear Air Act (“CAA”) with respect to carbon dioxide, which could lead to the regulation of carbon dioxide as a criteria pollutant under the CAA and have significant ramifications for us and the industry in general. On the international front, the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen, which took place in December 2009, did not result in any significant progress toward a binding agreement to replace the Kyoto Protocol, which expires in 2012. We are dependent upon attracting and retaining key personnel. We believe that our success depends, to a significant extent, upon our ability to attract and retain key senior management and operations management personnel. Our failure to recruit and retain these key personnel could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Our failure to maintain satisfactory labor relations could have a material adverse effect on our business. If our negotiations with the representatives of the unions, to which many of our employees belong, are not successful, our operations could be subject to interruptions at many of our facilities, which could materially and adversely affect our business. As of August 15, 2011, we employed approximately 1,400 employees, of whom approximately 73% are employed at our facilities in the United States. Approximately 54% of the U.S. employees are represented by unions at two plants in Perry, Florida and Memphis, Tennessee. Our Foley Plant’s labor agreement is in effect through April 1, 2012. The agreement for the Memphis Plant is in effect through March 18, 2013. On November 7, 2010, union employees at our Canadian facility ratified a new labor agreement. The agreement is in effect through June 30, 2012. Employee representation is provided by a national union for non-management workers at our specialty fibers plant in Americana, Brazil, and a works council at our nonwoven materials plant in Steinfurt, Germany. Our plants in Gaston, Lumberton and King, North Carolina are not unionized. The failure to renegotiate labor agreements in a timely manner could lead to a curtailment or stoppage of work at our factories. If we negotiated a labor agreement on unfavorable terms, our production costs will increase. A reduction in production or increasing the costs of production would lower our profits and harm our business. Compliance with extensive general and industry specific environmental laws and regulations requires significant resources, and the significant associated costs may adversely affect our business. Our operations are subject to extensive general and industry-specific federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, particularly those relating to air and water quality, waste disposal and the cleanup of contaminated soil and groundwater. We devote significant resources to maintaining compliance with these laws and regulations. Such environmental laws and regulations at the federal level include the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, the Clean Air Act of 1990, as amended, the Clean Water Act of 1972, as amended, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, as amended, the Toxic Substances Control Act of 1976, as amended, and the Safe Drinking Water Act of 1974, as amended. These environmental regulatory programs are primarily administered by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”). In addition, the individual states and foreign countries in which we operate have adopted and may adopt in the future equivalent or more stringent environmental laws and regulations or have enacted their own parallel environmental programs. We closely monitor our environmental compliance with current environmental requirements and believe that we are in substantial compliance. 12 We expect that, due to the nature of our operations, we will be subject to increasingly stringent environmental requirements, including standards applicable to wastewater discharges and air emissions, such as emissions of greenhouse gases, and general permitting requirements for our manufacturing facilities. We also expect that we will continue to incur substantial costs to comply with such requirements. Any failure on our part to comply with environmental laws or regulations could subject us to penalties or other sanctions that could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. We cannot currently assess, however, the impact that more stringent environmental requirements may have on our operations or capital expenditure requirements. We do not anticipate that capital expenditures in connection with matters relating to environmental compliance will have a material effect on our earnings during fiscal year 2012. Compliance with recently passed legislation may adversely affect our business. In March 2010, Congress passed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act (collectively, the “Acts”). Among other things, the Acts contain provisions that will affect employer-sponsored health care plans, impose excise taxes on certain plans, and reduce the tax benefits available to employers that receive the Medicare Part D subsidy. We are currently reviewing provisions of the Acts and their impact on our company-sponsored plans. We are currently unable to estimate costs associated with compliance with the Acts. We are subject to the economic and political conditions of foreign nations. We have manufacturing facilities in four countries and sell products in over 60 countries. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011, sales of our products outside the United States represented approximately 68% of our sales. The global economy and relative strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar can have a significant impact on our sales. In addition, although approximately 88% of our sales are denominated in U.S. dollars, it is possible that as we expand globally, we will face increased risks associated with operating in foreign countries, including: - the risk that foreign currencies will be devalued or that currency exchange rates will fluctuate; - the risk that limitations will be imposed on our ability to convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars or on our foreign subsidiaries' ability to remit dividends and other payments to the United States; - the risk that our foreign subsidiaries will be required to pay withholding or other taxes on remittances and other payments to the United States or that the amount of any such taxes will be increased; - the risk that certain foreign countries may experience hyperinflation; and - the risk that foreign governments may impose or increase investment or other restrictions affecting our business. Any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Risks related to ownership of our common stock The price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including those described above under “Risks Related to our Industries and Business” and the following: - actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results or our competitors’ operating results; - announcements by us or our competitors of new products, capacity changes, significant contracts, acquisitions or strategic investments; - our growth rate and our competitors’ growth rates; - the financial market and general economic conditions; - changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding us, our competitors or our industry generally, or lack of analyst coverage of our common stock; - sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders or sales of substantial amounts of common stock; and 13 - changes in accounting principles. In addition, there has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of companies operating in our industry that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have had securities litigation brought against them. If litigation of this type is brought against us, it could result in substantial costs and would divert management’s attention and resources. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 