Item 1A. Risk Factors Our operations are subject to a number of risks including those listed below and discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (particularly in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations). If any of the events described in the following risk factors actually occurs, it could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 7 Table of Contents Risks related to our industry We are subject to the cyclical changes caused by general global and industry conditions. The demand and pricing of our products, particularly fluff pulp, are influenced by the much larger market for papermaking pulps which is highly cyclical. The markets for most cellulose and absorbent products are sensitive to both changes in general global economic conditions and to changes in industry capacity. Both of these factors are beyond our control. The price of these products can fluctuate significantly when supply and demand become imbalanced for any reason. Our financial performance can be heavily influenced by these pricing fluctuations and the general cyclicality of the industries in which we compete. Furthermore, a general economic downturn in a particular country or on an international scale could reduce the overall sales within our industry, thereby likely reducing our sales. We cannot assure you that current prices will be maintained, that any price increases will be achieved, or that industry capacity utilization will reach favorable levels. The demand, cost and prices for our products may fluctuate substantially in the future and downturns in market conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Competition and surplus capacity could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The markets for our products are all competitive. Actions by competitors can affect our ability to sell our products and can affect the volatility of the prices at which our products are sold. Other actions by competitors, such as reducing costs or adding low-cost capacity, may adversely affect our competitive position in the products we manufacture and, consequently, our sales, operating income and cash flows. New competitors and the expansion of existing competitors could create a surplus capacity of the goods that we sell, which might cause us to either lose sales or lower the prices of our goods. Actions by our competitors and any surplus capacity could cause our sales and profits to decline, which could affect our operating results and financial condition. Market fluctuations in the availability and cost of energy and raw materials are beyond our control and may adversely affect our business. Energy, chemicals, and raw material costs, including fuel oil, natural gas, electricity, cotton linters, wood, and caustic and other chemicals are a significant operating expense. The prices and availability of raw materials and energy can be volatile and are susceptible to rapid and substantial changes due to factors beyond our control such as changing economic conditions, currency fluctuations, weather conditions, political unrest and instability in energy-producing nations, and supply and demand considerations. We have raw material pricing and availability issues at our Memphis specialty fiber plant, and we have limited production at this plant because of raw material constraints. This raw material availability constraint will limit growth and continue to impact our production costs. We have the option to import cotton linters for our Memphis specialty cotton fiber production in order to minimize the impact of unexpected fluctuations in North American cotton fiber availability but have not done so due to the high logistical cost of importing raw linters. Increases in production costs, including further increases in energy and chemical costs, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to increased costs, it is possible that a disruption in supply of natural gas or other fossil fuels could limit our ability to operate our facilities. Market fluctuations in the availability and cost of transportation are beyond our control and may adversely impact our business. Our business depends on the transportation of a large number of products, both domestically and internationally. An increase in transportation rates or fuel surcharges and/or a reduction in transport availability in truck, rail and international shipping could negatively impact our ability to provide products to our customers in a timely manner. An increase in international shipping rates or fuel surcharges or a reduction in the availability of vessels could adversely impact our costs and our ability to provide products to our international customers in a timely manner. There is no assurance that adequate transportation availability can continue to be effectively managed in the future. Risks related to our business Exposure to commodity products creates volatility in pricing and profits. If our research and development efforts do not result in the commercialization of new, proprietary products, we will continue to have significant exposure to fluff pulp, which could result in volatility in sales prices and profits. A material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales or negatively affect our results of operation and financial condition. Any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including: • unscheduled maintenance outages; • prolonged power failures; 8 Table of Contents • an equipment failure; • a chemical spill or release; • explosion of a boiler; • labor difficulties; • disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including roads, bridges, railroad tracks and tunnels; • fires, floods, windstorms, earthquakes, hurricanes or other catastrophes; • terrorism or threats of terrorism; • governmental regulations; and • other operational problems. Any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We may be required to pay significant export taxes or countervailing and anti-dumping duties for exported products. We may experience reduced revenues and margins on some of our businesses as a result of export taxes or countervailing and anti-dumping duty applications. It is possible that countervailing duty and antidumping tariffs, or similar types of tariffs could be imposed on us in the future. These tariffs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial results and financial condition. The impacts of climate-related initiatives at the international, federal and state levels, remain uncertain at this time. Currently, there are numerous international, federal and state-level initiatives and proposals addressing domestic and global climate issues. Within the U.S., most of these proposals would regulate and/or tax, in one fashion or another, the production of carbon dioxide and other “greenhouse gases” to facilitate the reduction of carbon compound emissions to the atmosphere, and provide tax and other incentives to produce and use more “clean energy.” We are dependent upon attracting and retaining key personnel. We believe that our success depends, to a significant extent, upon our ability to attract and retain key senior management and operations management personnel. Our failure to recruit and retain these key personnel could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Our failure to maintain satisfactory labor relations could have a material adverse effect on our business. If our negotiations with the representatives of the unions, to which many of our employees belong, are not successful, our operations could be subject to interruptions at many of our facilities, which could materially and adversely affect our business. As of June 30, 2013, we employed approximately 1,240 employees. Approximately 60% of our global workforce is covered under collective bargaining agreements. These employees are represented by unions at three plants, the Foley Plant, one in Memphis, Tennessee, and one in Steinfurt, Germany. Our labor agreement for the Foley Plant and the Memphis Plant expire in 2016 and the agreement for the Steinfurt Plant expires in 2014. Employee representation is provided by a works council at our nonwoven materials plant in Steinfurt, Germany. Our plants in Gaston and Lumberton, North Carolina are not unionized. The failure to renegotiate labor agreements in a timely manner could lead to a curtailment or stoppage of work at our factories. If we were to negotiate a labor agreement on unfavorable terms, our production costs could increase, perhaps materially. A reduction in production or increasing the costs of production would lower our profits and harm our business. 9 Table of Contents Compliance with extensive general and industry specific environmental laws and regulations requires significant resources, and the significant associated costs may adversely affect our business. Our operations are subject to extensive general and industry-specific federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, particularly those relating to air and water quality, waste disposal and the cleanup of contaminated soil and groundwater. We devote significant resources to maintaining compliance with these laws and regulations. Such environmental laws and regulations at the federal level include the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, the Clean Air Act of 1990, as amended, the Clean Water Act of 1972, as amended, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, as amended, the Toxic Substances Control Act of 1976, as amended, and the Safe Drinking Water Act of 1974, as amended. These environmental regulatory programs are primarily administered by the EPA. In addition, the individual states and foreign countries in which we operate have adopted and may adopt in the future equivalent or more stringent environmental laws and regulations or have enacted their own parallel environmental programs. We closely monitor our environmental compliance with current environmental requirements and believe that we are in substantial compliance. We expect that, due to the nature of our operations, we will be subject to increasingly stringent environmental requirements, including standards applicable to wastewater discharges and air emissions, such as emissions of greenhouse gases, and general permitting requirements for our manufacturing facilities. We also expect that we will continue to incur substantial costs to comply with such requirements. Any failure on our part to comply with environmental laws or regulations could subject us to penalties or other sanctions that could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. We cannot currently assess, however, the impact that more stringent environmental requirements may have on our operations or capital expenditure requirements. Compliance with recently passed legislation may adversely affect our business. In March 2010, Congress passed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act (collectively, the “Acts”). Among other things, the Acts contain provisions that will affect employer-sponsored health care plans, impose excise taxes on certain plans, and reduce the tax benefits available to employers that receive the Medicare Part D subsidy. We are currently reviewing provisions of the Acts and their impact on our company-sponsored plans. We are currently unable to estimate costs associated with compliance with the Acts. We are subject to the economic and political conditions of foreign nations. We have manufacturing facilities in two countries and sell products in over 50 countries. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2013, sales of our products outside the United States represented approximately 66% of our sales. The global economy and relative strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar can have a significant impact on our sales. In addition, although approximately 88% of our sales are denominated in U.S. dollars, we face risks associated with operating in foreign countries, including: • the risk that foreign currencies will be devalued or that currency exchange rates will fluctuate; • the risk that limitations will be imposed on our ability to convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars or on our foreign subsidiaries’ ability to remit dividends and other payments to the United States; • the risk that our foreign subsidiaries will be required to pay withholding or other taxes on remittances and other payments to the United States or that the amount of any such taxes will be increased; • the risk that certain foreign countries may experience hyperinflation; and • the risk that foreign governments may impose or increase investment or other restrictions affecting our business. Any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. As required by SEC rules, we carried out the required quarterly evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our principal executive officer and our principal financial and accounting officer, of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of June 30, 2013, the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Based on this evaluation and due to the material weaknesses described below, our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of June 30, 2013. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting that creates a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our interim or annual financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. In the course of preparing the financial statements as of June 30, 2013, that are included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, management identified material weaknesses in internal control related to granting and reviewing user access privileges within the Company’s SAP application and over the purchasing, accounts payable, and cash disbursements processes transacted through SAP due to inadequate segregation of duties. These material weaknesses did not result in material misstatements in the Company’s annual and interim financial statements. These material weaknesses were reported by management to our Audit Committee. 10 Table of Contents We are a private company, On April 24, 2013, we and Georgia-Pacific LLC announced that we had reached a definitive agreement for Georgia-Pacific to acquire all of the outstanding shares of our common stock for $37.50 per share in cash. On August 15, 2013, at a special stockholders’ meeting, our stockholders approved the Agreement and Plan of Merger, or the Merger Agreement, by and among Georgia-Pacific, GP Cellulose Group LLC and Buckeye and, on August 21, 2013, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice granted termination of the waiting period required under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvement Act of 1976, as amended. The merger closed on August 23, 2013, upon which Buckeye became an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of Georgia-Pacific. As a result of the merger, our common stock will no longer be listed on the New York Stock Exchange or any other securities exchange, and each issued and outstanding share of common stock of the Company (other than shares held in treasury by the Company or owned by any subsidiary of the Company or Georgia-Pacific or any subsidiary of Georgia-Pacific) was converted into the right to receive $37.50 per share, net to the holder in cash, without interest, subject to any withholding of taxes required by applicable law. We will file a Certification on Form 15 with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Exchange Act to suspend our reporting obligations under Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Exchange Act. We became a privately-held company as a result of the merger and do not intend to file periodic reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 