Item 1A. Risk Factors Our operations are subject to a number of risks including those listed below and discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (particularly in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations). If any of the events described in the following risk factors actually occur, it could materially impact our results of operations and financial condition. Risks related to our industry We are subject to the cyclical changes caused by general global and industry conditions. The demand and pricing of our products, particularly fluff pulp, are influenced by the much larger market for papermaking pulps which is highly cyclical. The markets for most cellulose and absorbent products are sensitive to both changes in general global economic conditions and to changes in industry capacity. Both of these factors are beyond our control. The price of these products can fluctuate significantly when supply and demand become imbalanced for any reason. Our financial performance can be heavily influenced by these pricing fluctuations and the general cyclicality of the industries in which we compete. Furthermore, a general economic downturn in a particular country or on an international scale could reduce the overall sales within our industry, thereby likely reducing our sales. We cannot assure you that current prices will be maintained, that any price increases will be achieved, or that industry capacity utilization will reach favorable levels. The demand, cost and prices for our products may fluctuate substantially in the future and downturns in market conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Competition and surplus capacity could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The markets for our products are all competitive. Actions by competitors can affect our ability to sell our products and can affect the volatility of the prices at which our products are sold. Other actions by competitors, such as reducing costs or adding low-cost capacity, may adversely affect our competitive position in the products we manufacture and, consequently, our sales, operating income and cash flows. New competitors and the expansion of existing competitors could create a surplus capacity of the goods that we sell, which might cause us to either lose sales or lower the prices of our goods. Actions by our competitors and any surplus capacity could cause our sales and profits to decline, affecting our operating results and financial condition. Market fluctuations in the availability and cost of energy and raw materials are beyond our control and may adversely impact our business. Energy, chemicals, and raw material costs, including fuel oil, natural gas, electricity, cotton linters, wood, and caustic and other chemicals are a significant operating expense. The prices and availability of raw materials and energy can be volatile and are susceptible to rapid and substantial changes due to factors beyond our control such as changing economic conditions, currency fluctuations, weather conditions, political unrest and instability in energy-producing nations, and supply and demand considerations. At the beginning of fiscal year 2009, we had raw material availability issues at our Memphis and Americana specialty fibers plants. Currently, our production is not constrained by raw material availability, but is constrained by reduced demand for our specialty cotton fiber products. Energy and chemical costs which had increased substantially in recent years, resulting in increased production costs for our products, have recently moderated. Increases in production costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to increased costs, it is possible that a disruption in supply of natural gas or other fossil fuels could limit our ability to operate our facilities. 9 Market fluctuations in the availability and cost of transportation are beyond our control and may adversely impact our business. Our business depends on the transportation of a large number of products, both domestically and internationally. An increase in transportation rates or fuel surcharges and/or a reduction in transport availability in truck, rail and international shipping could negatively impact our ability to provide products to our customers in a timely manner. An increase in international shipping rates or fuel surcharges or a reduction in the availability of vessels could negatively impact our costs and our ability to provide products to our international customers in a timely manner. While we have had adequate transportation availability, there is no assurance that such availability can continue to be effectively managed in the future. Risks related to our business Exposure to commodity products creates volatility in pricing and profits. If our research and development efforts do not result in the commercialization of new, proprietary products, we will continue to have significant exposure to fluff pulp, which could result in volatility in sales prices and profits. If our significant customer changes its purchasing habits, our business could be adversely affected. Procter & Gamble is our largest single customer. We supply Procter & Gamble with fluff pulp and airlaid nonwovens, and sales to Procter & Gamble accounted for approximately 7% of our net sales in fiscal year 2009. In the event that Procter & Gamble fails to continue to purchase these products from us in substantial volume, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected, particularly if we are unable to attract new customers. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health. As of June 30, 2009, our total debt was approximately $327 million and our total debt, as a percentage of total capitalization, was 51%. Our level of debt could have a significant adverse future effect on our business. For example: - we may have limited ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our growth strategy, research and development costs or other purposes; - a substantial portion of our cash flow may be used to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes; - our senior secured credit facility covenants require us to meet certain financial objectives and impose other restrictions on business operations. These covenants and those contained in the indenture governing our senior notes limit our ability to borrow additional funds or dispose of assets and limit our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business; - we may be more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; - our debt level and the various covenants contained in the indenture related to our senior notes and the documents governing our other existing indebtedness may place us at a relative competitive disadvantage as compared to certain of our competitors; and - our borrowings under our senior secured credit facility are at floating rates of interest, which could result in higher interest expense in the event of an increase in interest rates. Our ability to pay principal of and interest on our senior notes, to service our other debt and to refinance indebtedness when necessary depends on our financial and operating performance, each of which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that we will be able to obtain sufficient funding to satisfy all of our obligations. If we are unable to pay our debts, we will be required to pursue one or more alternative strategies, such as selling assets, refinancing or restructuring our indebtedness or selling additional equity capital. However, we cannot assure you that any alternative strategies will be feasible at the time or prove adequate. Also, certain alternative strategies will require the consent of our senior secured lenders before we engage in any such strategy. 10 Our failure to maintain satisfactory labor relations could have a material adverse effect on our business. If our negotiations with the representatives of the unions, to which many of our employees belong, are not successful, our operations could be subject to interruptions at many of our facilities, which could materially and adversely affect our business. As of August 15, 2009, we employed approximately 1,450 employees, of whom approximately 1,045 are employed at our facilities in the United States. Approximately 53% of the U.S. employees are represented by unions at two plants in Perry, Florida and Memphis, Tennessee. Our Foley Plant’s labor agreement is in effect through April 1, 2012. The agreement for the Memphis Plant is in effect through March 18, 2010. At our Canadian facility, the labor agreement expired on June 30, 2009, but was automatically extended until negotiations are completed. Negotiations are scheduled to begin in September 2009. Employee representation is provided by a national union for non-management workers at our specialty fibers plant in Americana, Brazil, and a works council at our nonwoven materials plant in Steinfurt, Germany. Our plants in Gaston, Lumberton and King, North Carolina are not unionized. The failure to renegotiate labor agreements in a timely manner could lead to a curtailment or stoppage of work at our factories. If we negotiated a labor agreement on unfavorable terms, our production costs will increase. A reduction in production or increasing the costs of production would lower our profits and harm our business. Compliance with extensive general and industry specific environmental laws and regulations requires significant resources, and the significant associated costs may adversely impact our business. Our operations are subject to extensive general and industry-specific federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, particularly those relating to air and water quality, waste disposal and the cleanup of contaminated soil and groundwater. We devote significant resources to maintaining compliance with these laws and regulations. Such environmental laws and regulations at the federal level include the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, the Clean Air Act of 1990, as amended, the Clean Water Act of 1972, as amended, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, as amended, the Toxic Substances Control Act of 1976, as amended, and the Safe Drinking Water Act of 1974, as amended. These environmental regulatory programs are primarily administered by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). In addition, the individual states and foreign countries in which we operate have adopted and may adopt in the future equivalent or more stringent environmental laws and regulations or have enacted their own parallel environmental programs. We closely monitor our environmental compliance with current environmental requirements and believe that we are in substantial compliance. We expect that, due to the nature of our operations, we will be subject to increasingly stringent environmental requirements, including standards applicable to wastewater discharges and air emissions, such as emissions of greenhouse gases, and general permitting requirements for our manufacturing facilities. We also expect that we will continue to incur substantial costs to comply with such requirements. Any failure on our part to comply with environmental laws or regulations could subject us to penalties or other sanctions that could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. We cannot currently assess, however, the impact that more stringent environmental requirements may have on our operations or capital expenditure requirements. We do not anticipate that capital expenditures in connection with matters relating to environmental compliance will have a material effect on our earnings during fiscal year 2010. 11 Because approximately 66% of our sales are to customers outside the United States, we are subject to the economic and political conditions of foreign nations. We have manufacturing facilities in four countries and sell products in approximately 60 countries. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, sales of our products outside the United States represented approximately 66% of our sales. The global economy and relative strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar can have a significant impact on our sales. In addition, although approximately 84% of our sales are denominated in U.S. dollars, it is possible that as we expand globally, we will face increased risks associated with operating in foreign countries, including: - the risk that foreign currencies will be devalued or that currency exchange rates will fluctuate; - the risk that limitations will be imposed on our ability to convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars or on our foreign subsidiaries' ability to remit dividends and other payments to the United States; - the risk that our foreign subsidiaries will be required to pay withholding or other taxes on remittances and other payments to the United States or that the amount of any such taxes will be increased; - the risk that certain foreign countries may experience hyperinflation; and - the risk that foreign governments may impose or increase investment or other restrictions affecting our business. Any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 