Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. We operate in a highly competitive, dynamic and rapidly changing industry that involves numerous risks and uncertainties. Moreover, our debt instruments impose restrictions on us that are for the benefit of certain of our creditors, but not necessarily for our stockholders or us. Anyone who is making an investment decision regarding our securities should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect our company or your investment. Other risks and uncertainties that we do not presently consider to be material, or of which we are not presently aware, may become important factors that adversely affect our security holders or us in the future. If any of the risks discussed below actually materialize, our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and future prospects, or your investment in our securities, could be materially and adversely affected, resulting in a loss of all or part of your investment. 22 Risks Relating To Our Business And Our Capital Structure We Are in Breach of Affirmative Covenants And Have Failed to Make Timely Payments of Interest Under Our New Credit Facility. In connection with our New Credit Facility as defined in Item 7 below, we agreed to affirmative covenants obligating us to, among other things, make all payments under the New Credit Facility and provide to Wachovia a Deposit Account Control Agreement, or DACA, from each of the Company’s depository banks at Wachovia’s request. On February 26, 2009, the Company received a notice of default, or Notice, on its New Credit Facility from Wachovia, which relates to the Company’s failure to provide a DACA from each of the Company’s depository banks per a request made by Wachovia on October 14, 2008. The DACA that Wachovia requested the Company to execute was in a form that we ultimately determined to contain unreasonable terms and conditions as it would enable Wachovia to access all of the Company’s operating cash and order it to be transferred to a bank account specified by Wachovia. The Notice further provides that as a result of the default, we will no longer have the option to request LIBOR Rate loans. As a result of losing the availability of LIBOR Rate loans under the New Credit Facility, the interest rate on the Term Loan will increase from approximately 7.5% to 8.5% and the interest rate for the Revolving Credit Facility will remain the same. On March 25, 2009, we engaged XRoads Solution Group LLC as our financial advisor. Based on an extensive analysis of our current and projected liquidity, and with our financial advisor’s input, we determined it was in the best interests of the Company not pay the accrued interest of approximately $4 million on our $245 million New Credit Facility, which was due March 30, 2009. Consequently, we elected not to make the payment. The Company’s failure to pay interest due on any loan within our New Credit Facility within a three-day grace period from the due date is an event of default under our New Credit Facility. We do not plan to pay the interest due within the three-day grace period. As a result of this event of default, the Company's lenders have the right to seek to charge additional default interest in the amount of 2% on the Company’s outstanding principal and interest under the Credit Agreement, and automatically charge additional default interest of 1% on any overdue amounts under the Swap Agreement. These defaults rates are in addition to the interest rates that would otherwise be applicable under the Credit Agreement and Swap Agreement. We believe that the Company’s lenders will seek to apply these higher default interest rates as a result of the Company’s failure to make the interest payment due on March 30, 2009. We entered into discussions with Wachovia to negotiate a waiver or forbearance regarding the Notice and the anticipated payment default and an anticipated going concern default (see discussion below). If we are not successful in negotiating a waiver or forbearance agreement with the Company’s lenders regarding the Notice and the anticipated payment and going concern defaults, Wachovia and the lenders under the New Credit Facility would: have the ability to accelerate repayment of all amounts outstanding under the New Credit Facility ($227.5 million at December 31, 2008), to commence foreclose on some or all of our assets securing the debt, or exercise other rights and remedies granted under the New Credit Facility and as may be available pursuant to applicable law. In addition, Wachovia, under our Swap Agreement, can terminate the Swap Agreement and accelerate repayment of the amount outstanding under that agreement ($30.2 million at December 31, 2008). If the New Credit Facility and interest rate swap indebtedness were to be accelerated, we would be required to refinance or restructure the payments on that debt. We cannot assure you that we would be successful in completing a refinancing or consensual out-of-court restructuring, if necessary. If we were unable to do so, we would likely be compelled to seek protection under Chapter 11 of the U. S. Bankruptcy Code. As a result of these factors, we have concluded that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern and our auditors have issued a modified opinion, with an explanatory paragraph, on our financial statements within this Form 10-K that expresses substantial doubt of our ability to continue as a going concern because we are in default under the covenants of our New Credit Facily. 23 Our Independent Auditors Have Expressed Doubt About Our Ability To Continue As A Going Concern. This Could Make It More Difficult For Us To Raise Funds and Adversely Affect Our Relationships With Lenders, Investors And Suppliers Our independent registered public accounting firm included an explanatory paragraph that expresses doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern in their audit report contained in this Form 10-K report for the year ended December 31, 2008. As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements within this Form 10-K report, the company has incurred recurring operating losses, has a working capital deficiency and has an accumulated deficit. We cannot provide any assurance that we will in fact operate our business profitably, maintain existing financings, or obtain sufficient financing in the future to sustain our business in the event we are not successful in our efforts to generate sufficient revenue and operating cash flow. Our ability to continue as a going concern will be determined by our ability to obtain additional funding or restructure or negotiate waivers on our existing indebtedness and to generate sufficient revenue to cover our operating expenses. The accompanying consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of recorded asset amounts or amounts of liabilities that might be necessary should we be unable to continue in existence. The Current Disruption in the Credit Markets and its Effects on the Global and Domestic Economies Could Adversely Affect our Business. Recent substantial volatility in the global capital markets and widely-documented commercial credit market disruptions have had a significant negative impact on financial markets, as well as the global and domestic economies. The effects of these disruptions are widespread and difficult to quantify, and it is impossible to predict when the global financial markets will improve. There is now general consensus among economists that the economies of the U.S. and much of the rest of the world are now in a recession, and we are experiencing reduced demand for our hotel rooms, gaming products and other services. Declines in demand and in consumer and commercial spending may drive us and our competitors to reduce pricing, in particularly room rates, which would have a negative impact on our gross profit. These adverse effects would likely be exacerbated if current global economic conditions persist or worsen, resulting in wide-ranging, adverse and prolonged effects on general business conditions, and materially and adversely affect our operations, financial results and liquidity. Our Significant Indebtedness Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Health And Prevent Us From Fulfilling Our Obligations Under Our Outstanding Indebtedness We have a significant amount of debt which could have important consequences to our stockholders and significant effects on our business and our ability to satisfy our debt obligations. Our significant amount of debt could; · cause an event of default if we fail to comply with the restrictive covenants in our New Credit Facility, which could result in all of our indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable and would permit certain lenders to foreclose on our assets securing that indebtedness (We received a notification of default under our New Credit Facility on February 26, 2009. Moreover, we did not pay accrued interest on our New Credit Facility, which was due March 30, 2009. We do not anticipate making this payment of accrued interest within the three-day grace period in which we can make such payment. Pursuant to our New Credit Facility, the administrative agent or the lenders can accelerate the debt and require repayment of our Credit Agreement indebtedness. We may not be able to restructure or refinance our indebtedness should this occur); · increase our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions or a downturn in our business; · limit our ability to repay our New Credit Facility if we are required to do so as a result of a change in control of our company or regulatory requirements; · limit our ability to obtain additional financing for future working capital needs and require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital needs, capital expenditures, development projects, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and · place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less financial leverage. The fair market value of the collateral securing our New Credit Facility may not be sufficient to pay the amounts owed under our New Credit Facility. As a result, holders of our New Credit Facility may not receive full payment following an event of default. Our New Credit Facility and the guarantees thereof are secured by a security interest in substantially all of our existing and future assets (other than certain excluded assets), subject to certain limitations. The proceeds of any sale of collateral following an event of default with respect to our New Credit Facility may not be sufficient to satisfy, and may be substantially less than, amounts due under the New Credit Facility. The total value of the collateral may be less than the amount due under the New Credit Facility. The value of the collateral in the event of liquidation will depend upon market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and similar factors. The collateral does not include contracts, agreements, licenses (including gaming, and liquor licenses) and other rights that by their express terms prohibit the assignment thereof or the grant of a security interest therein. Some of these may be material to us and such exclusion could have a material adverse effect on the value of the collateral. By its nature, some or all of the collateral may not have a readily ascertainable market value or may not be saleable or, if saleable, there may be substantial delays in its liquidation. To the extent that liens, security interests and other rights granted to other parties (including the lenders under our senior secured credit facility) encumber assets owned by us, those parties have or may exercise rights and remedies with respect to the property subject to their liens that could adversely affect the value of that collateral and the ability of the trustee under the indenture governing the New Credit Facility or the holders of the New Credit Facility to realize or foreclose on that collateral. Consequently, we cannot assure the lenders that liquidating the collateral securing the New Credit Facility would produce proceeds in an amount sufficient to pay any amounts due under the New Credit Facility after also satisfying the obligations to pay any creditors with prior claims on the collateral. 24 The gaming licensing process, along with bankruptcy laws and other laws relating to foreclosure and sale, as discussed below, also could substantially delay or prevent the ability of the trustee or any holder of the New Credit Facility to obtain the benefit of any collateral securing the New Credit Facility. Such delays could have a material adverse effect on the value of the collateral. If the proceeds of any sale of collateral are not sufficient to repay all amounts due on the New Credit Facility, the holders of the New Credit Facility (to the extent not repaid from the proceeds of the sale of the collateral), would have only an unsecured claim against our remaining assets. Gaming laws, bankruptcy laws and other factors may delay or otherwise impede the trustee’s ability to foreclose on the collateral securing the New Credit Facility. The gaming laws of the State of Nevada and Colorado and the licensing processes, along with other laws relating to foreclosure and sale, could substantially delay or prevent the ability of the trustee or any lender of the New Credit Facility to obtain the benefit of any collateral securing the New Credit Facility. For example, if the trustee sought to operate, or retain an operator for, any of our gaming properties, the trustee would be required to obtain Nevada gaming licenses. Potential purchasers of our gaming properties or the gaming equipment would also be required to obtain a Nevada gaming license. This could limit the number of potential purchasers in a sale of our gaming properties or gaming equipment, which may delay the sale of and reduce the price paid for the collateral. In addition, the trustee’s ability to repossess and dispose of collateral is subject to the procedural and other restrictions of state real estate, commercial and gaming law, as well as the prior approval of the lenders under our New Credit Facility. Among other things, if the trustee did conduct a foreclosure sale, and if the proceeds of the sale were insufficient, after expenses, to pay all amounts due under the New Credit Facility, the trustee might, under certain circumstances, be permitted to assert a deficiency claim against us. There can be no assurance that the trustee would be able to obtain a judgment for the deficiency or that we would have sufficient other assets to pay a deficiency judgment. Federal bankruptcy law also could impair the trustee’s ability to foreclose upon the collateral. If we or a guarantor become a debtor in a case under the United States Bankruptcy Code, as amended, or the Bankruptcy Code, the automatic stay, imposed by the Bankruptcy Code upon the commencement of a case, would prevent the trustee from foreclosing upon the collateral or (if the trustee has already taken control of the collateral) from disposing of it, without prior bankruptcy court approval. The bankruptcy court might permit us to continue to use the collateral while the bankruptcy case was pending, even with the New Credit Facility being in default. Under the Bankruptcy Code, lenders of New Credit Facility and the trustee would be entitled to “adequate protection” of the interest of lenders of New Credit Facility in the collateral, if necessary to protect against any diminution in value during the case. Because the Bankruptcy Code does not define “adequate protection,” and because the bankruptcy court has broad discretion, however, there can be no assurance that the court would require us to provide lenders of New Credit Facility with any form of “adequate protection,” or that any protection so ordered would, in fact, be adequate. In a bankruptcy case, the court would allow a claim for all amounts due under the New Credit Facility, including all accrued and unpaid interest through the date of bankruptcy. Under the Bankruptcy Code, interest stops accruing on the date of bankruptcy except under certain specified circumstances, and there can be no assurance that the court would allow a claim for post-bankruptcy interest. If the court held that the value of the collateral securing the New Credit Facility was less than the amount due, the trustee would be permitted to assert a secured claim in an amount equal to the collateral’s value and an unsecured claim for the deficiency. For these and other reasons, if we or our subsidiaries become debtors in cases under the Bankruptcy Code, there can be no assurance: · whether any payments under the notes would be made; · whether or when the trustee could foreclose upon or sell the collateral; · whether the term or other conditions or any rights of the lenders could be altered in a bankruptcy case without the trustee’s or the lenders’ consent; · whether the trustee or the lenders would be able to enforce the noteholders’ rights against the guarantors under their guarantees; or · whether or to what extent holders of the New Credit Facility would be compensated for any delay in payment or decline in the collateral’s value. Finally, the trustee’s ability to foreclose on the collateral on behalf of the lenders may be subject to the consent of third parties and practical problems associated with the realization of the trustee’s security interest in the collateral. We Face Intense Competition In The Two Markets Where We Operate In Las Vegas, competition has continued to increase as a result of factors such as the ongoing economic recession, hotel room inventory increases, gaming floor expansions in addition to convention, trade show and meeting space additions. Our success depends on the ability of Riviera Las Vegas to attract customers and realize corresponding revenues. Riviera Las Vegas competes with casino resort properties and hotels in the Las Vegas area. Currently, there are approximately 30 major gaming properties located on or near the Las Vegas Strip, approximately ten additional major gaming properties in the downtown area and many additional gaming properties located in other areas of Las Vegas. Riviera Las Vegas competes with these properties based on overall atmosphere, range of amenities, level of service, price, location, entertainment offered, shopping and restaurant facilities, theme and size. Companies that own and operate multiple hotel/casino facilities operate many of the gaming properties in Las Vegas. These companies have greater name recognition and financial and marketing resources than we do and often market to the same target demographic groups as we do. Furthermore, additional major hotel/casino openings and significant expansion of existing properties, containing a large number of hotel rooms and attractions, are expected to occur in Las Vegas in the coming years, which will put additional pressure on us to remain competitive. In Black Hawk/Central City, the primary competitive differentiators are location, availability and convenience of parking, number of gaming devices, promotional incentives, hotel rooms, types and pricing of non-gaming amenities, name recognition and overall atmosphere. Our main competitors are the larger gaming facilities especially those with considerable on-site or nearby parking facilities, hotel rooms and established reputations in the local market. Two of the most successful casinos in Colorado are considerably larger than Riviera Black Hawk and are located across the street from our casino. Three other casinos in our market offer hotel accommodations as well as gaming facilities and thereby have some competitive advantages over us. The Ameristar Black Hawk property was re-branded as the “Ameristar” on April 1, 2006. Ameristar is adding a hotel tower with 536 hotel rooms and expanding its parking garage to 1,550 parking spaces. This project is expected to be substantially complete by the end of the second quarter of 2009. Ameristar has approximately 1,600 gaming machines, 12 blackjack tables and 14 live poker tables. Also, a road, which opened in November 2004, enables drivers to bypass Black Hawk on their way to Central City. This road has led to significant growth in the Central City gaming market and may give our Central City competitors an advantage over us. 25 There have also been efforts in Colorado by Native American tribes to acquire land to use for construction of a casino that would operate without the limitations imposed on the Colorado casino industry. Additionally, there have been efforts by other parties to amend the Colorado Constitution to permit the installation of slot machines at five racetracks. To date, the Native American casino initiatives in Colorado have either been rejected or have failed to win support from government authorities. Moreover, in 2003, a race track/slot machine initiative was rejected by Colorado voters. Our Colorado operations could be adversely affected if either one of these initiatives gain the necessary approvals. In addition to the competition that we face from our competitors in Las Vegas and Colorado, we face increasing competition from other companies in the gaming industry generally, such as land-based casinos, dockside casinos, riverboat casinos, casinos located on Native American land and other forms of legalized gambling. We risk losing market share if other casinos operate more successfully or are enhanced or expanded or are established in or around the locations where we conduct business. The number of casinos on Native American lands has increased since enactment of the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act of 1988. In 2000, California voters approved an amendment to the California Constitution that allows Las Vegas-style gaming on Native America lands in that state. Additionally, California voters recently passed Propositions 94, 95, 96 and 97 which allow two tribes near San Diego to each increase their slot machine volume from 2,000 slot machines to 7,500 slot machines and two tribes near Palm Springs to each increase their slot machine volume from 2,000 slot machines to 5,000 slot machines. While it is difficult to determine the impact of these new gaming jurisdictions, the continued expansion of gaming in California poses a more serious threat to the continued growth of Las Vegas. We also compete, to some extent, with other forms of gaming on both a local and national level, including state sponsored lotteries, Internet gaming, on- and off-track wagering and card parlors. In particular, the legalization of gaming or the expansion of legalized gaming in or near any geographic area from which we attract or expect to attract a significant number of our customers could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Increased competition may also require us to make substantial capital expenditures to maintain or enhance the competitive positions of our two properties. Because we are highly leveraged, after we satisfy our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness, we might not have sufficient financing to make such expenditures. If we are unable to make such expenditures, our competitive position, results of operations and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Our Company Operates In Only the Las Vegas And Black Hawk Markets Which Exposes Us To Greater Risks Than Gaming Companies With A Presence In More Markets We do not have material assets or operations other than Riviera Las Vegas and Riviera Black Hawk. Therefore, we are entirely dependent upon these two properties for our cash flow. This makes us more sensitive to events and conditions affecting the markets in which we operate, including the following: · continued or worsening national recession; · weak local economic conditions; · increased competitive conditions; 26 · inaccessibility due to weather conditions, road construction or closure of primary access routes; · decline in air passenger traffic due to higher ticket costs or fears concerning air travel; · a decline in automobile traffic due to higher gasoline prices; · changes in state and local laws and regulations, including those affecting gaming; · an increase in the cost of electrical power for Riviera Las Vegas as a result of, among other things, power shortages in California or other western states with which Nevada shares a single regional power grid; · a decline in the number of visitors to Las Vegas or the number of Colorado residents who visit Black Hawk; · a decline in the number of hotel guest in Las Vegas due to the 3% hotel room tax increase bill which approved by the Nevada Legislature in March 2009; and · a potential increase in the gaming tax rate in any jurisdiction in which we operate. We Are Dependent On Key Personnel Whom We Might Have Difficulty Replacing Due To A Shortage Of Management-Level Personnel In Our Industry And Market Perceptions About Our Prospects Our ability to operate successfully is dependent, in part, upon the continued services of certain of our executive personnel. Our loss of any of them or our inability to attract or retain key employees in the future could have a material adverse effect on us. We have an employment agreement with William L. Westerman, our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) who has been with us or our predecessor company since 1991. Mr. Westerman is employed for calendar year periods which renew automatically unless he provides 180 days written notice or we provide 90 days written notice of our respective intention not to renew. Mr. Westerman’s contract is also subject to earlier termination upon the occurrence of certain events. We cannot assure you that we would find a suitable replacement for Mr. Westerman if he retires or his employment terminates for any other reason. There is a shortage of skilled management-level employees in the gaming industry. This shortage, combined with our relatively limited financial and marketing resources, competitive position and market perceptions about our future prospects especially considering the notice of default we received under our credit agreement, may make it more difficult for us to find suitable replacements if we lose the services of our executives or other key personnel, which in turn might make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified personnel at that high level. Regulations Issued By Gaming Or Other Governmental Authorities Could Adversely Affect Our Operations As owners and operators of gaming facilities, we are subject to extensive governmental regulation. The ownership, management and operation of gaming facilities are subject to extensive laws, regulations and ordinances, which are administered by various federal, state and local government entities and agencies. The gaming authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate have broad authority and discretion to require us and our officers, directors, managers, employees and certain security holders to obtain various licenses, registrations, permits, findings of suitability or other approvals. To enforce applicable gaming regulations, gaming authorities may, among other things, limit, suspend or revoke the licenses of any gaming entity or individual, and may levy fines against us or individuals or may cause us to forfeit our assets for violations of gaming laws or regulations. Any of these actions would have a material adverse effect on us. 27 Nevada and Colorado state and local government authorities require us to obtain gaming licenses and require our officers and key employees to demonstrate suitability to be involved in gaming operations. Those authorities may limit, condition, suspend or revoke a license for any cause they deem reasonable. Also, if we violate any gaming laws or regulations, those authorities may levy substantial fines against us or the individuals involved in the violations. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. We can not assure you that any new licenses, registrations, findings of suitability, permits and approvals will be granted or that our existing ones will be renewed when they expire. Any failure to renew or maintain our licenses or receive new licenses when necessary would have a material adverse effect on us. We are subject to a variety of other laws, rules and regulations, including those pertaining to zoning, environmental matters, construction, land use and the serving of alcoholic beverages. We also pay substantial taxes and fees in connection with our operations as a gaming company, which taxes and fees are subject to increases or other changes at any time. Any changes to these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Our compliance costs associated with these laws, regulations and licenses are significant. A change in the laws, regulations and licenses applicable to our business or a violation of any of them could require us to make material expenditures or could otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. In Black Hawk and in other jurisdictions from which we attract customers, gaming is subject to local referendum. If the results of a referendum held in a jurisdiction in which we operate were to restrict gaming in whole or in part or if the results of a referendum in a nearby non-gaming jurisdiction were to permit gaming, especially video lottery terminals or slot machines in racetracks in and around the Denver area, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. We Are Subject To Potential Exposure To Environmental Liabilities Generally, we are subject to various federal, state and local governmental laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge, emission and disposal of hazardous materials. Failure to comply could result in the imposition of severe penalties or restrictions on our operations by governmental agencies or courts. We experienced a diesel leak at our Las Vegas property. Our continuing efforts to monitor and remediate the effects of this leak, which occurred in 2002, have been affected by construction at neighboring projects. We are continuing to monitor this matter. In order to come to final resolution regarding this issue with the Nevada Department of Environmental Protection, we may be required to take remediation steps including the excavation of the effected area. We are unable to estimate the cost of remediation at the present time. Riviera Black Hawk is located within a 400-square mile area that in 1983 was designated as the Clear Creek Central/City National Priorities List Site Study Area under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended. Although Riviera Black Hawk is not within any of the specific areas currently identified for investigation or remediation under that statute, environmental problems may subsequently be discovered, including in connection with any future construction on our property. Furthermore, governmental authorities could broaden their investigations and identify areas of concern within the site and as a result, we could be identified as a “potentially responsible party” and any related liability could have a material adverse effect on us. We do not have insurance to cover environmental liabilities, if we incur any. 28 Energy Price Increases May Adversely Affect Our Costs Of Operations And Our Revenues Our casino properties use significant amounts of electricity, natural gas and other forms of energy. Recent substantial increases in the cost of electricity in the United States have negatively affected our operating results and are likely to continue to do so. The extent of the impact is subject to the magnitude and duration of energy price increases, but this impact could be material. In addition, energy price increases in cities that constitute a significant source of customers for our properties could result in a decline in disposable income of potential customers and a corresponding decrease in visitation to our properties which could negatively impact our revenues. Our Business, Financial Condition, Results Of Operations And Future Prospects Are Dependent On Many Factors That Are Beyond Our Control The economic health of our business is generally affected by a number of factors that are beyond our control, including: · decline in tourism and travel due to concerns about homeland security, terrorism or other destabilizing events; · decline in the Las Vegas convention business; · the ability to renegotiate union contracts in Las Vegas; · intense competitive conditions in the gaming industry, especially the possibility of the approval of video lottery terminals and/or slot machines at racetracks in and around the Denver area, including the effect of such conditions on the pricing of our games and products; · general economic conditions including the impact of a continued or worsening economic recession; · economic conditions specific to our primary markets; · general condition of the banking and credit markets; · changes in the regulatory regimes affecting our business, including changes to applicable gaming, employment, environmental or tax regulations; · inaccessibility to our property due to construction on adjoining or nearby properties, streets or walkways; · substantial increases in the cost of electricity, natural gas and other forms of energy; · local conditions in key gaming markets, including seasonal and weather-related factors; · increased transportation costs; 29 · levels of disposable income of casino customers; · continued increases in health care costs; · increases in gaming taxes or fees; · the relative popularity of entertainment alternatives to casino gaming that compete for the leisure dollar; · an outbreak or suspicion of an outbreak of an infectious communicable disease; and · the impact of the smoking ban in Colorado on our Riviera Black Hawk property which became effective January 1, 2008 and the possible adoption of additional anti-smoking regulations. Any of these factors could negatively impact our property or the casino industry generally, and as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations. We May Incur Losses That Are Not Adequately Covered By Insurance Insurance may not be available in the future or adequate to cover all loss or damage to which our business or our assets might be subjected. Since the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, insurance coverage has diminished for certain types of damages or occurrences and is no longer available at reasonable commercial rates. The lack of adequate insurance for certain types or levels of risk could expose us to significant losses if a catastrophe or lawsuit occurs for which we do not have insurance coverage. Any losses we incur that are not adequately covered by insurance may decrease our future operating income, require us to pay the costs of replacing or repairing destroyed property and reduce the funds available for payment of our debt obligations. We Are Subject To Litigation, Which, If Adversely Determined, Could Cause Us To Incur Substantial Losses From time to time during the normal course of operating our business, we are subject to various litigation claims and other legal disputes. Some of the litigation claims may not be covered under our insurance policies or our insurance carriers may seek to deny coverage. As a result, we might be required to incur significant legal fees, which may have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, because we cannot predict the outcome of any legal action, it is possible that as a result of litigation, we will be subject to adverse judgments or settlements that could significantly reduce our results from operations. Homeland Security, Terrorism And War Concerns, As Well As Other Factors Affecting Discretionary Consumer Spending, May Harm Our Operating Results The strength and profitability of our business depend on consumer demand for hotel/casino resorts, gaming in general and the types of amenities we offer. Changes in consumer preferences or discretionary consumer spending could harm our business. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, ongoing war activities and concerns about terrorism and homeland security have had a negative impact on travel and leisure expenditures, including lodging, gaming (in some jurisdictions) and tourism. We cannot predict the extent to which those events may continue to affect us, directly or indirectly, in the future. An extended period of reduced discretionary spending or disruptions or declines in travel could significantly harm our operations. 30 In addition to concerns about war, homeland security and terrorism, other factors affecting discretionary consumer spending include; consumers confidence in general or regional economic conditions, consumers’ disposable income, consumers fears of a continued or worsening economic recession or an economic depression. Negative changes in factors affecting discretionary spending could reduce customer demand for the products and services we offer, thus imposing practical limits on our pricing and harming our operations. If the State of Nevada or Clark County increases gaming taxes and fees, our results of operations could be adversely affected. State and local authorities raise a significant amount of revenue through taxes and fees on gaming activities. From time to time, legislators and officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of such laws, affecting the gaming industry. In addition, worsening economic conditions could intensify the efforts of state and local governments to raise revenues through increases in gaming taxes. If the State of Nevada or Clark County, Nevada were to increase gaming taxes and fees, our results of operations could be adversely affected. There are several gaming tax increase proposals currently circulating in Nevada. One such proposal, a 3% increase in the room tax, was recently approved by the Nevada legislature. These proposals would take the form of voter referendum. If successfully implemented, such an increase would have a material adverse affect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Risks Relating To Our Common Stock Our Stock Price Has Been Volatile, Which Could Result In Substantial Losses For Our Stockholders. On October 1, 2008, the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) Euronext acquired the American Stock Exchange (“AMEX”). As a result, effective December 1, 2008, all AMEX listed companies, including the Company, were placed in the NYSE Alternext US listing platform. On March 18, 2009, the NYSE Alternext US changed its name to NYSE Amex. Our stock’s average trading volume for the three-month period ended March 23, 2009 was 29,785 shares. The daily closing sale prices of our stock, as reported by NYSE Amex (formerly NYSE Alternext US and AMEX), have ranged from $1.05 to $21.99 for the 52-week period ended March 23, 2009. The volatility of the trading price of our stock could be due to many factors including, but not limited to: · the relatively low trading volume for our stock; · the effect of our announcement that we had terminated our strategic process to explore alternatives for maximizing stockholder value; · the effect that fluctuations in our stock price will have on other parties’ willingness to make a proposal to acquire us; · requirement in our Articles of Incorporation of an affirmative vote of 60% of all of our outstanding shares entitled to vote in order for a merger proposal to succeed; · ownership of a large number of our outstanding shares by a small group of stockholders, coupled with our 60% affirmative vote requirement to effectuate a successful merger, may inhibit other parties from engaging in merger negotiations with us; 31 · fluctuations in Las Vegas real estate values, particularly as they affect property on the Las Vegas Strip; · the current credit market and banking environment; · current economic conditions and expectation regarding future economic conditions; · quarterly fluctuations in our financial results; · changes in analysts’ estimates of our financial performance or future prospects; · announcements of new services or programs; · additions or departures of key personnel; · general conditions in our industry and in the financial markets; and · a variety of other risk factors including the ones described elsewhere in this report. The Volatility Of The Las Vegas Real Estate Market Might Result In A Substantial Decline In Our Stock Price We believe that the recent decline in Las Vegas Strip real estate values was a significant cause for the drop in the trading price of our stock in 2008. The market value of real estate located on or near the Las Vegas Strip increased substantially during the three years preceding 2008 and the trading price of our stock increased in conjunction. We believe that increases and decreases in Las Vegas Strip real estate values have significantly affected the trading price of our stock. Our Las Vegas property, which is located near the northern end of the Las Vegas Strip, consists of approximately 26 acres and is recorded at a book value of $21 million based on its 1993 historical cost. There Are Requirements and Limitations On Changes In Control Of Our Company That Could Reduce The Ability To Sell Our Shares In Excess Of Current Market Prices Our current debt consists of a seven year $225 million term loan which matures on June 8, 2014 (the “Term Loan”) and a $20 million five year revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility” together with the Term Loan, the “New Credit Facility”). The terms of the New Credit Facility restrict the ability of anyone to effect a change in control of our company. If anyone acquires 35% or more of our outstanding stock or if other events occur that constitute a change in control according to our New Credit Facility, we have to make a prompt offer to repay the New Credit Facility. It is unlikely that we would have the funds to repay the New Credit Facility within the required time frame unless we obtained the necessary funding as part of the change in control transaction which adds significantly to the funding that a buyer would need to acquire our company. Our New Credit Facility also would require us to obtain the consent of holders of a majority of the outstanding principal amount of the New Credit Facility in order for us to be a party to a merger or to sell all or substantially all of our assets unless, after giving effect to the transaction, we meet certain net worth or financial ratio tests, which might be difficult or impossible for us to meet. Early termination of our Swap Agreement, which we entered into in conjunction with our New Credit Facility, could result in a substantial payment if interest rates were below the fixed swap interest rate in effect at the time we entered into the Swap Agreement. 32 Additionally, our Articles of Incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could reduce the likelihood of a change in control or acquisition of our company. These could limit your ability to sell your shares at a premium or otherwise affect the price of our common stock. These provisions: · limit the voting power of persons who acquire more than 10% of our outstanding stock without our prior approval; · permit us to issue up to 60 million shares of common stock; · permit us to increase the size of our board of directors and fill the resulting vacancies without a vote by stockholders; and · limit the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders. In addition, Nevada law contains provisions governing the acquisition of a substantial or controlling interest in certain publicly-held Nevada corporations, including our company. Those laws provide generally that any person who acquires more than a specified percentage of our outstanding stock must obtain certain approvals from us before the acquisition or they might be denied voting rights or the ability to engage in various transactions with us, unless our disinterested stockholders vote to restore those rights. The ownership percentage that triggers some of these restrictions is 10%, and further restrictions can be triggered at the 20%, 33-1/3% or 50.1% ownership level. Also, a person that seeks to acquire control must satisfy the licensing requirements of the Nevada and Colorado gaming authorities. The gaming authorities may also require controlling stockholders, officers, directors and other persons having a material relationship or involvement with a person proposing to acquire control to be investigated and licensed as part of the approval process relating to the transaction. Nevada law also provides that we may resist a change or potential change in control if our board of directors determines that the change is not in the best interest of our company. On November 19, 2008, we entered into a separate investment agreement (each an “Investment Agreement”) with each of Plainfield Special Situations Master Fund Limited (“Plainfield”) and Desert Rock Enterprises LLC (“Desert Rock”) relating, among other things, to the acquisition of our common stock. We currently do not have any plans to issue and sell any shares of our common stock to either Plainfield or Desert Rock. The principal terms of each agreement provides for, among other things, (a) that our board of directors has, in connection with their potential acquisition of our common stock, (i) waived, in accordance with subsection 7(g) of Article III of our Articles of Incorporation, the voting limitation set forth in subsection 7(b) of Article III of the Articles of Incorporation with respect to Desert Rock and Plainfield (and their respective affiliates and related entities collectively, the “Investor Group”), and (ii) approved the acquisition of our common stock pursuant to the Investment Agreements in accordance with the provisions of subsection 78.438(1) of Title 7 of the Nevada Revised Statutes, (b) each Investor Group’s agreement not to directly or indirectly acquire any of our common stock, or otherwise become part of a group, if immediately after giving effect to such acquisition or group formation, the Investor Group, or any group of which it is a part, would have beneficial ownership of our common stock in excess of fifteen percent (15%) of the outstanding common stock, unless specifically approved in writing by our board of directors, subject to certain limited exceptions, (c) an agreement by each of Plainfield and Desert Rock to a standstill period (which ends on the first date to occur of: (i) the day following the completion of our 2010 regular annual meeting of stockholders, (ii) September 1, 2010 and (iii) the ending of any period during which any other investor is subject to a similar standstill) during which time it will not take certain actions involving the Company including without limitation to solicit proxies or become a participant in a proxy solicitation with respect to our securities or submit a proposal or offer involving a merger, business combination, acquisition tender or other similar type transaction, except under certain limited circumstances, (d) ) an agreement by each of Plainfield and Desert Rock not to vote any securities it holds in excess of the amount permitted to be purchased pursuant to clause (b) above, and (e) ) each of Plainfield and Desert Rock to seek to obtain any approvals that may be required from the Nevada and Colorado gaming authorities in connection with the acquisition of our common stock pursuant to the Investment Agreements. 33 We Have Never Paid Dividends, Do Not Intend To Pay Dividends In The Foreseeable Future And Cannot Pay Dividends To Any Unsuitable Person We have never paid dividends on our stock, nor do we anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain our cash flow or earnings, if any, to use in our growth and ongoing operations. Also, due to gaming law considerations, our Articles of Incorporation prohibit the payment of dividends to anyone who is deemed an “unsuitable person” or is an affiliate of an “unsuitable person.” Certain Owners Of Our Stock May Have To File An Application With, And Be Investigated By, The Nevada And/Or Colorado Gaming Authorities. If That Owner Is Deemed “Unsuitable,” That Stockholder Could Lose Most Of The Attributes Of Being A Stockholder And It Could have a Detrimental Effect On US. Any person who acquires beneficial ownership of more than 10% of our voting securities must apply to the Nevada Commission for a finding of suitability within 30 days after the Chairman of the Nevada Board mails a written notice requiring such application. Under certain circumstances, if an “institutional investor” (as defined in Nevada gaming regulations) acquires beneficial ownership of more than 10% but not more than 15% of our voting securities and holds the securities only for investment purposes, it may apply for a waiver of such finding of suitability requirement. In addition, any beneficial owner of our voting securities, regardless of the number of shares owned, may be required, at the discretion of the Nevada Commission, to apply for a finding of suitability. A finding of suitability is comparable to licensing, and the applicant must pay all costs of investigation incurred by the Nevada gaming authorities in conducting the investigation. Any such person who fails to apply for a finding of suitability within 30 days after being ordered to do so by the Nevada Commission may be found to be unsuitable. Any person who is found by the Nevada Commission to be unsuitable to be a beneficial owner of our voting securities but continues such beneficial ownership beyond the period of time prescribed by the Nevada Commission may be guilty of a criminal offense. We will be subject to disciplinary action if, after we receive notice that a person is unsuitable to be a beneficial owner of our voting securities or to have any other relationship with us, we: · pay that person any dividend or interest on our voting securities; · allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any voting right conferred through our voting securities held by that person; · pay that person any remuneration in any form for services rendered or otherwise; or · fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require that person to relinquish our voting securities for cash at fair market value. 34 Colorado requires that persons owning, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of our stock be certified as suitable for licensure. Persons found unsuitable by the Colorado Commission may be required immediately to terminate any direct or indirect beneficial interest in our voting securities. A finding of unsuitability with respect to any beneficial owner also may jeopardize our license. The annual renewal of our license may be conditioned upon the termination of any beneficial interest in our voting securities by unsuitable persons. We May Redeem Shares Due To Gaming Law Considerations, Either As Required By Gaming Authorities Or In Our Discretion Our articles of incorporation provide that if a gaming authority determines that any stockholder or its affiliates are unsuitable, or if deemed necessary or advisable by us for gaming law considerations, we may redeem shares of our stock that the stockholder or the stockholder’s affiliates own or control. The redemption price will be the amount required by the gaming authority or, if the gaming authority does not determine the price, the price deemed reasonable by us. If we determine the redemption price, that price will be capped at the market price of the shares on the date we give the redemption notice. We may pay the redemption price in cash, by promissory note, or both, as required by the applicable gaming authority and, if not so required, as we elect. We Do Not Meet The NYSE Amex (Formerly NYSE Alternext US and AMEX) Earnings Or Net Worth Listing Standards On October 1, 2008, the NYSE Euronext acquired the AMEX. As a result, effective December 1, 2008, all AMEX companies were placed in the NYSE Alternext US listing platform. On March 18, 2009, the NYSE Alternext US changed its name to NYSE Amex. Our common stock is listed on the NYSE Amex trading platform under the symbol RIV. Prior to the transition to the NYSE Amex (formerly NYSE Alternext US) trading platform, our common stock was trading on AMEX. We do not currently meet the earnings or net worth standards that were in effect with NYSE Amex. We have been informed, however, that according to NYSE Amex policy, NYSE Amex will not normally consider suspending dealings in or delisting the securities of a company which is below the earnings and net worth standards if the total market value of that company’s publicly held shares is at least $15 million. Based on the number of our publicly held shares as of February 20, 2009, our shares must have a per-share market value of at least $1.20 in order to meet that $15 million level. However, we cannot be sure that the NYSE Amex will continue to follow that policy or that the price of our shares will continue to enable us to stay at that level in the future. If our shares were delisted from NYSE Amex, the marketability and liquidity of our stock could be significantly reduced. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 