Item 1A. Risk Factors We are subject to a number of risks. Some of these risks are endemic to the high-technology and semiconductor industry and are the same or similar to those disclosed in our previous SEC filings. The following lists some, but not all, of the risks and uncertainties which may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The risks and uncertainties set out below are not the only risks and uncertainties we face. Risks related to our Business Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate due to many factors and are difficult to forecast, which may cause the trading price of our common stock to decline substantially. Our operating results have historically been and in the future may be adversely affected or otherwise fluctuate due to factors such as: · fluctuations in customer demand for the electronic devices into which our products are incorporated; · volatility in supply and demand affecting semiconductor prices generally, such as an increase in the supply of competitive products and a significant decline in average selling prices; · establishment of additional inventory reserves if sales of our inventory fall below our expected sales, or the anticipated selling prices of our products fall below the amounts paid to produce and sell certain parts; · changes in our product mix including product category, density, package type, lead content, or voltage; · inadequate visibility of future demand for our products; · timing of new product introductions and orders for our products; · increases in expenses associated with new product introductions and promotions, process changes and/or expansion of our sales channels; · increases in wafer prices due to increased market demand and other factors; · increases in prices charged by our suppliers due to increased costs, decreased competition and other factors; · fluctuations in manufacturing yields; · gains or losses of significant OEM customers or indirect channel sellers, such as distributors or resellers; and · general economic conditions. 14 Our net revenues and operating results are difficult to forecast. We base our expense levels, in significant part, on our expectations of future net revenues and our expenses are therefore relatively fixed in the short term. If our net revenues fall below our forecasts, our operating results are likely to be disproportionately adversely affected because our costs are difficult to reduce significantly in the short term. We may never realize a material portion of our net revenues from our analog/mixed-signal products, despite our expenditure of a disproportionate amount of our research and development and marketing resources on these products. Analog/mixed-signal products accounted for 7.6%, 4.7% and 2.1% of net revenues for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We believe that the growth in our analog/mixed-signal product revenues has been limited due to the extended product design cycles and production lead times, and a sales force that has limited experience selling these products. Despite limited product acceptance to date, we continue to invest in and devote research and development and marketing resources to analog/mixed-signal products with the expectation that our standard analog/mixed-signal products will be accepted by many of our current customers and that we will eventually qualify and sell custom analog/mixed-signal products. Competition is intense as we have initially offered a limited range of products while our more established competitors are offering a much broader array of analog/mixed-signal products. Many customers favor a vendor that offers a broad range of products. If we are unable to realize more revenues from these products, our total revenues may not grow. In addition, if we devote a disproportionate amount of our research and development resources to analog/mixed-signal products, our development of new non-volatile memory products may suffer and operating results may be harmed. We have in the past been unable and in the future we may be unable to obtain sufficient quantities of wafers from our current foundry suppliers to fulfill customer demand. We currently purchase a majority of our production wafers from two foundries. To address our wafer supply concerns, we plan to continue expanding our foundry capability at our primary supplier by qualifying our products in multiple fabrication plants owned by the supplier and to expand our foundry capacity with other suppliers. As the need arises, from time to time, we may pursue additional wafer sources. However, we cannot be certain that these efforts will provide us with access to adequate capacity in the future at costs which will enable us to remain profitable. Even if such capacity is available from another manufacturer, the qualification process and time required to make the foundry fully operational for us could take many months or longer and be subject to other factors described below and the prices could be materially higher. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by: · the loss of any of our current foundries as a supplier; · our inability to obtain additional capacity at our current foundry suppliers; · our inability to qualify our current foundry suppliers for additional products; · our inability to locate and qualify other wafer manufacturers for desired foundry capacity; or · any other problems foundries may have causing a significant interruption in our supply of semiconductor wafers. We are now required to expense share-based payments to our employees, and our financial statements will have a significant material adverse charge. As of May 1, 2006, we are required to expense stock options and other share-based payments to employees and directors, which will require us to record a significant charge to earnings. On 15 December 16, 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 123(R), “Share-Based Payment,” which is a revision of SFAS No. 123 and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25. SFAS No. 123(R) requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be valued at fair value on the date of grant, and to be expensed over the requisite service period. Pro forma disclosure of the income statement effects of share-based payments will no longer be an alternative. We adopted SFAS No. 123(R) on May 1, 2006, the first day of our fiscal 2007. Compensation expense for the unvested awards will be measured based on the fair value of the awards previously calculated in developing the pro forma disclosures in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 123. Our pro forma stock compensation expense was $2.0 million for fiscal 2006. Adoption of this accounting standard will have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial statements. We are currently evaluating our stock-based compensation programs to determine what our alternatives may be to reduce this expense in the future. If we choose not to issue stock options at the levels we have in the past, we believe we may face more difficulties in attracting and retaining employees. We depend on a small number of suppliers for our supply of wafers and we may be unable to meet customer demand due to our inability to obtain wafers. We do not manufacture or process the semiconductor wafers used for our products. In 1985, we began a relationship with our principal foundry supplier. Since 1987, that foundry has supplied wafers to us and has been our principal foundry source. In fiscal 2000, an additional foundry began to provide products to us. We primarily use our principal foundry supplier for fabricating our memory products and our other foundry supplier for fabricating our analog/mixed-signal products. We do not presently have a wafer supply agreement with our foundry suppliers and instead purchase wafers on a purchase order and acceptance basis. Our reliance on these independent foundries involves a number of risks, including: · inadequate wafer supplies to meet our production needs; · increased prices charged by these independent foundries; · reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields and costs; and · any other circumstances causing a significant interruption in our supply of semiconductor wafers. We may forecast incorrectly and produce excess or insufficient inventories of particular products, which may adversely affect our results of operations. Since we must order products and build inventory substantially in advance of product shipments, we may forecast incorrectly and produce excess or insufficient inventories of particular products. The ability of our customers to reschedule or cancel orders without significant penalty could adversely affect our liquidity, as we may be unable to adjust our purchases from our wafer suppliers to match any customer changes and cancellations. As part of our business strategy, we maintain a substantial inventory of sorted wafers in a die bank but limit our investment in finished goods. We may have adequate wafer inventory to meet customer needs but may be unable to finish the manufacturing process prior to the delivery date specified by the customer. Demand for our products is volatile and customers often place orders with short lead times. Our inventory may not be reduced by the fulfillment of customer orders and in the future we may produce excess quantities of our products. It is our policy to fully write down all inventories that we do not expect to be sold in a reasonable period of time. During recent fiscal years, as a result of reductions in estimated demand for our various products, we have taken charges for write down of inventories for certain products, primarily our EEPROM products. For example, we recorded inventory write-down charges of $1.0 million, $1.1 million and $853,000 in fiscal 2006, fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004, respectively, which were partially offset by benefits of $794,000, $1.0 million and $2.0 million, relating to products that were written off in prior periods and 16 sold during these fiscal years, respectively. We may suffer reductions in values of our inventories in the future and we may be unable to liquidate our inventory at acceptable prices. To the extent we have excess inventories of particular products, our operating results could be adversely affected by charges to cost of revenues that we would be required to recognize due to significant reductions in demand for our products or rapid declines in the market value of inventory, resulting in inventory write downs or other related factors. We may be unable to fulfill all our customers’ orders according to the schedule originally requested due to the constraints in our wafer supply and processing time from die bank to finished goods, which could result in reduced revenues or higher expenses. Due to the lead time constraints in our wafer supply, foundry activities and other manufacturing processes, from time to time we have been unable to fulfill all our customers’ orders on the schedule originally requested. Although we attempt to anticipate pending orders and maintain an adequate supply of wafers and communicate to our customers delivery dates that we believe we can reasonably expect to meet, our customers may not accept the alternative delivery date or may cancel their outstanding orders. Reductions in orders received or cancellation of outstanding orders would result in lower net revenues and reduced operating results, excess inventories and increased inventory reserves. We may also be required to pay substantially higher per wafer prices to replenish our die bank, which could harm our gross margins. If we were requested to pay rush charges to our manufacturing or foundry suppliers to meet a customer’s requested delivery date, our expenses would increase and possibly harm our operating results. We rely on distributors and resellers for a substantial portion of our net revenues and if our relationships with one or more of those distributors or resellers were to terminate, our operating results may be harmed. We market and distribute our products primarily through independent distributors and resellers, which typically offer competing products. These distribution channels have been characterized by rapid change, including consolidations and financial difficulties. Distributors and resellers have accounted for a significant portion of our net revenues in the past. For fiscal 2006, sales to Avnet, Inc., an international distributor, represented 12% of our net revenues. For fiscal 2005, none of our direct or indirect customers represented 10% or more of our net revenues. For fiscal 2004, sales to ALR Company Limited, a reseller in China, represented 11% of our net revenues. In addition, we have experienced and may continue to experience lower margins on sales to distributors and resellers as a result of volume pricing arrangements. We also do not typically enter into long-term arrangements with our distributors and resellers and we cannot be certain as to future order levels from our distributors and resellers. When we do enter into long-term arrangements, the contracts are generally terminable at the convenience of either party and it may be difficult to replace that source of revenues in the short-term upon cancellation. Our business depends on these third parties to sell our products. As a result, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by the loss of one or more of our current distributors or resellers, additional volume pricing arrangements, order cancellations, delay in shipment by one of our distributors or resellers or the failure of our distributors or sellers to successfully sell our products. We face risks from failures in our manufacturing processes and the processes of our foundries and vendors. The fabrication of semiconductors, particularly EEPROM products, is a highly complex and precise process. Most of our products are currently manufactured by two outside foundries and a number of other vendors participate in assembling, testing and other processing of our products. During manufacturing, each wafer is processed to provide numerous EEPROM, flash or analog/mixed-signal devices. We may 17 reject or be unable to sell a substantial percentage of wafers or the components on a given wafer because of: · minute impurities; · difficulties in the fabrication process, such as failure of special equipment, operator error or power outages; · defects in the masks used to imprint circuits on a wafer; · nonconforming electrical and/or optical performance; · breakage of wafers; or · other factors. We refer to the proportion of final components that have been processed, assembled and tested relative to the gross number of components that could be constructed from the raw materials as our manufacturing yield. We have in the past experienced lower than expected manufacturing yields, which have delayed product shipments and negatively impacted our results of operations. We may experience difficulty maintaining acceptable manufacturing yields in the future. In addition, the maintenance of our outsourced fabrication, manufacturing and assembly model is subject to risks, including: · the demands of managing and coordinating workflow between geographically separate production facilities; · disruption of production in one facility as a result of a slowdown or shutdown in another facility; and · higher operating costs from managing geographically separate manufacturing facilities. We depend on certain vendors for foundry services, materials, test and assembly services. We maintain stringent policies regarding qualification of these vendors. However, if these vendors’ processes vary in reliability or quality, they could negatively affect our products and our results of operations. We rely on third party subcontractors to sort, assemble, test and ship our products to customers, which reduces our control over quality, delivery schedules and capacity. We outsource all or a portion of the production planning, assembly, test and finish work of our products, as well as our inventory management function to subcontractors who are primarily located in Thailand and the Philippines. We do not have long-term contractual arrangements with these subcontractors. Our reliance on third parties subjects us to risks such as reduced control over delivery schedules and quality, a potential lack of adequate capacity during periods when demand is high and potential increases in product costs due to factors outside our control such as capacity shortages and pricing changes. Our outsourcing model could lead to delays in product deliveries, lost sales and increased costs which could harm our relationships with OEM customers and indirect sales channels and result in lower operating results. Because we utilize the services of a group of assembly and test providers, this makes our operation highly complex, requiring a high degree of diligence in managing the costs of production and overall logistics of our manufacturing operations. 18 While we believe that we currently have adequate internal control over financial reporting, we are exposed to risks from recent legislation requiring companies to evaluate internal control over financial reporting and cannot be certain that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective or sufficient in the future. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to report on and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements. It may be difficult to design and implement effective internal control over financial reporting for combined operations and differences in existing controls of acquired businesses may result in weaknesses that require remediation when internal control over financial reporting are combined. For example, in fiscal 2006 we experienced unanticipated delays in closing our books and completing our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act under Section 404. As such, we were not able to file this Annual Report on Form 10-K by the original due date without unreasonable expense or effort. Our ability to manage our operations and growth will require us to improve our operations, financial and management controls, as well as our internal control over financial reporting. We may not be able to implement improvements to our internal control over financial reporting in an efficient and timely manner and may discover deficiencies and weaknesses in existing systems and controls; especially when such systems and controls are tested by increased scale of growth. As a result, we expect to continue to incur related expenses and to devote additional resources to Section 404 compliance. In addition, it is difficult for us to predict how long it will take to complete the assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting each year and we may not be able to complete the process on a timely basis. In the event that our chief executive officer, chief financial officer or independent registered public accounting firm determine that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under Section 404, we cannot predict how regulators will react or how the market prices of our shares will be affected. We expect to relocate our principal executive offices in August 2006, and the transition of our principal executive offices may cause delays that may harm our future operating results Our existing principal executive offices are located in Sunnyvale, California. Our lease in the Sunnyvale facility expires in July 2006 and will become a monthly rent obligation for the remainder of our occupancy. In anticipation of the expiration of this lease, we began renovations of a new headquarters in April 2006 in a building we purchased in Santa Clara, California in March 2006. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully transition all of our administrative operations to the new facility without incurring significant additional costs from extending our lease on a month to month basis for the Sunnyvale facility or that we will not experience any delays in establishing the required infrastructure to operate the business effectively. We may also experience network, telecommunications and other infrastructure disruptions in connection with our move to the new facility, which may limit our ability to complete sales and other transactions until the disruptions are resolved and would negatively affect our operating results. The transition of administrative operations to the new facility could place significant strain on our management and engineering resources and result in diversion of management attention from the day to day operation of our business. In addition, the customer and internal qualification of our wafer testing facilities at the Santa Clara location may not occur in a timely manner, if at all, which may increase our operating expenses and force us to operate two facilities until we successfully qualify the Santa Clara facility. There can be no assurance that we will be able to hire additional management, engineering and other personnel, as needed, to manage effectively, the transition to the new facility, which may harm our future operating results. 19 International sales comprise a significant portion of our product sales, which exposes us to foreign political and economic risks. For each of fiscal 2006, fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004, sales outside the United States accounted for approximately 88% of our net revenues. We expect that sales outside of the United States will continue to represent a significant portion of our net revenues in the future. However, our international operations may be adversely affected by the following factors: · greater fluctuations in demand for our products due to the increased sensitivity to pricing changes in certain markets, particularly Asia; · longer payment cycles; · fluctuations in exchange rates; · imposition of government controls; · difficulties in staffing international operations; · political, socioeconomic and financial instability, such as the military actions in Afghanistan and Iraq; · trade restrictions; · the impact of communicable diseases, such as severe acute respiratory syndrome; and · changes in regulatory requirements. Our business is also subject to other risks because of our design center in Romania and our relationships with foreign subcontractors including, but not limited to, foreign government regulations and political and financial unrest which may cause disruptions or delays in shipments to our customers or access to our inventories. We do not currently hedge against any foreign currency exchange rate risks. Additionally, our subcontracted presence in Thailand with Trio-Tech subjects us to additional risks associated with the value of the work-in-process and finished goods inventory located there as well as the test equipment utilized in the operations at the Trio-Tech facility. We are in the process of forming a subsidiary in Thailand that will hire personnel and own certain equipment located in that country in addition to our current operations. We may face increased management costs and other risks due to the establishment of our product development group in Romania. In January 2003, we formed a wholly owned subsidiary in Romania to provide engineering services for current products and the development of potential new products. In August 2004, we purchased a building in Bucharest for use by our Romanian engineering group at a cost of $2.1 million. We have no prior experience in establishing or operating engineering services outside of our headquarters in Sunnyvale, California. The expansion of our engineering design operations to remotely situated offices presents a number of substantial risks that could increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and ability to deliver our products and grow our business, including: · difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, in particular attracting and retaining personnel qualified to provide high quality engineering services; · difficulties in coordinating our engineering operations in Romania with those in California; · diversion of management attention; 20 · political and economic instability, which may have an adverse impact on foreign exchange rates of the Romanian leu relative to the U.S. dollar and could impair our ability to conduct our business in Romania; · difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies with our Romanian subsidiary relative to those of our other locations, including product development management and financial consolidation; · difficulties in owning and operating real property in Romania; and · inadequacy of the local infrastructure to support our needs. Our ability to operate successfully depends upon the continued service of certain key employees and the continued ability to attract and retain additional highly qualified personnel. Our ability to operate successfully will depend, to a large extent, upon the continued service of certain key employees and the continued ability to attract and retain additional highly qualified personnel. Competition for these personnel, particularly for highly skilled design, process and test engineers, is intense and we may not be able to retain these personnel or attract other highly qualified personnel. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the loss of or failure to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Our low-density flash memory products may become obsolete. A significant portion of our net revenues have been and continue to be derived from sales of low density flash memory products. Flash memory products represented 8.3%, 9.6% and 9.4% of our net revenues in fiscal 2006, fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004, respectively. In general, the market for flash memory products has been characterized by competing technologies, migration of demand to larger memory sizes and intense overall competition. Other flash memory vendors continue to design, develop and sell flash memory devices with larger memory in reaction to changes in market demand. This transition to larger flash memory sizes is resulting in a limited and shrinking market for the low density flash memory products that we currently offer. We have decided not to develop any of the higher density flash memory devices due to the extreme competition in the medium and high density flash memory market and the considerable costs of development associated with it. Due to these and other factors, we may experience declining net revenues from our low-density flash memory products, which could harm our operating results. Risks Related to Our Industry and Competition Competition in our markets may lead to reduced average selling prices of our products, reduced sales of our products or gross margins. The non-volatile memory market is competitive and has been characterized by rapid price erosion, manufacturing capacity constraints and limited product availability. Average selling prices in the non-volatile memory market generally, and for our products in particular, have fluctuated significantly over the life of each product and, over the long term, the average selling price of each product has tended to decline. Declines in average selling prices for our products, if not offset by reductions in the cost of producing those products or by sales of new products with higher gross margins, would decrease our overall gross margins, could cause a negative adjustment to the value of our inventories and could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We compete with major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future. Our more mature products, such as serial and parallel EEPROM devices, compete on the basis of price, product availability and customer service. Principal competitors for 21 our EEPROM products currently include Atmel, STMicroelectronics and Microchip Technology. Principal competitors for our low density flash products include Silicon Storage Technology and Integrated Silicon Solution. Principal competitors for our analog/mixed-signal products include Fairchild Semiconductor, Intersil, Linear Technology, Maxim Integrated Products, National Semiconductor and Texas Instruments. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical in nature, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate. We operate in a highly cyclical industry that has been subject to significant economic downturns often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles and declines in general economic conditions. These types of downturns have occurred numerous times in the past, most recently, in calendar year 2005. During such downturns, we experience reduced product demand and production overcapacity which result in competitive pricing pressures leading to accelerated erosion of average selling prices and reduced gross margins. These downturns may occur for extended periods. Accordingly, we may experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in operating results. Our continued success depends in large part on the continued growth of various electronics industries that use semiconductors. We attempt to identify changes in market conditions as soon as possible; however, market dynamics make our prediction of and timely reaction to such events difficult. Our business could be harmed in the future by additional cyclical downturns in the semiconductor industry or by slower growth by any of the markets served by our end customers’ products. If our products fail to keep pace with the rapid changes in the semiconductor industry, we could lose customers and revenues. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing customer demand, over or under utilization of manufacturing capacity and price fluctuations. To compete successfully, we must introduce new products in a timely manner at competitive price, quality and performance levels. In particular, our future success will depend on our ability to develop and implement new design and process technologies which enable us to reduce product costs. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by delays in developing new products, achievement of volume production and market acceptance of new products, successful completion of technology transitions of our existing products to new process geometries or foundries with acceptable yields and reliability. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Our business may be harmed if we fail to protect our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. We currently have patents granted and pending in the United States and intend to seek further United States and international patents on our technology. We cannot be certain that patents will be issued from any of our pending applications, that patents will be issued in all countries where our products can be sold or that any issued patents will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage. Our competitors may also be able to design around our patents. The laws of some countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold, may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States, increasing the possibility of piracy of our technology and products. Although we intend to vigorously defend our intellectual property rights, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our technology. Our competitors may also independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. 22 Our ability to produce our products may suffer if someone claims we infringe on their intellectual property. The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights or positions, which have resulted in significant and often protracted and expensive litigation. In addition, it is typical for companies in the industry to receive notices from time to time that allege infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights. We may receive other notices or become a party to other proceedings alleging our infringement of patents or intellectual property rights in the future. If it is necessary or desirable, we may seek licenses under such patents or other intellectual property rights. However, we cannot be certain that licenses will be offered or that we would find the terms of licenses that are offered acceptable or commercially reasonable. Our failure to obtain a license from a third party for technology used by us could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to suspend the manufacture of the affected products. Furthermore, we may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. Litigation by or against us could result in significant expense and divert the efforts of our technical personnel and management, whether or not the litigation results in a favorable resolution. In the event of an adverse result in any litigation, we could be required to: · pay substantial damages; · pay amounts to indemnify our customers; · stop the manufacture and sale of the infringing products; · expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology; · discontinue the use of certain processes; or · obtain licenses to the technology. We may be unsuccessful in developing non-infringing products or negotiating licenses with reasonable terms, or at all. These problems might not be resolved in time to avoid harming our results of operations. If any third party makes a successful claim against our customers or us and a license is not made available to us on commercially reasonable terms, our business could be harmed. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we have wrongfully used the alleged trade secrets of our employees’ former employers. Many of our employees were previously employed at other companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although we have no current or pending claims against us, we may be subject to claims that we have relied on information that these employees have inadvertently, or otherwise, disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key research personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to develop new products, which could severely harm our business. Even if we are successful, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. We may not be able to expand our proprietary technology if we do not acquire rights to use key technologies, consummate potential acquisitions or investments or successfully integrate them with our business. To expand our proprietary technologies, we may acquire or make investments in complementary businesses, technologies or products if appropriate opportunities arise. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition or investment candidates at reasonable prices or on reasonable terms or consummate transactions with such candidates, the failure of which could slow our growth. We may also have difficulty in acquiring licenses to use proprietary technologies of third parties to expand our product lines. We may 23 have difficulty integrating the acquired products, personnel or technologies of any acquisition we might make. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, limit our future growth, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses. Risks Related to Our Stock Our stock is subject to substantial price and volume fluctuations due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, and those fluctuations may prevent our stockholders from reselling our common stock at a profit. The trading price of our common stock has in the past been and could in the future be subject to significant fluctuations in response to: · quarterly variations in our results of operations; · announcements of technological innovations or new products by us, our customers or competitors; · our failure to achieve the operating results anticipated by analysts or investors; · sales or the perception in the market of possible sales of a large number of shares of our common stock by our directors, officers, employees or principal stockholders; · international political, socioeconomic and financial instability, including instability associated with military action in Afghanistan, Iraq or other conflicts; · releases or reports by or changes in security analysts’ recommendations; and · developments or disputes concerning patents or proprietary rights or other events. For example, during fiscal 2004, fiscal 2005, fiscal 2006 and to date in fiscal 2007, the trading price of our common stock on the Nasdaq National Market has ranged from a high of $9.75 per share to a low of $2.51 per share. If our net revenues and results of operations are below the expectations of investors, significant fluctuations in the market price of our common stock could occur. In addition, the securities markets have, from time to time, experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, which have particularly affected the market prices for high technology companies and often are unrelated and disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Our charter documents, Delaware law and our stockholder rights plan contain provisions that may inhibit potential acquisition bids, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, discourage merger offers or prevent changes in our management. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of the shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. If we issue any of these shares of preferred stock in the future, the rights of shareholders of our common stock may be negatively affected. If we issue preferred stock, a change of control of our company could be delayed, deferred or prevented. We have no current plans to issue shares of preferred stock. 24 Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law restricts certain business combinations with any “interested stockholder” as defined by that statute. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain certain other provisions that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control. These provisions include: · the classification of our board so that only a portion of our directors are elected each year and each director serves a three year term; · the elimination of actions by written consent of stockholders; and · the establishment of an advance notice procedure and a minimum holding requirement for stockholder proposals and director nominations to be acted upon at annual meetings of the stockholders. In 1996, our board of directors adopted a stockholder rights plan with an initial term of ten years which will expire in December 2006. Under this plan, we issued a dividend of one right for each share of our common stock. Each right initially entitles stockholders to purchase one one-thousandth of a share of our preferred stock for $18.00. However, the rights are not immediately exercisable. If a person or group acquires, or announces a tender or exchange offer that would result in the acquisition of 15% of our common stock, unless the rights are redeemed by us for $0.01 per right, the rights will become exercisable by all rights holders, except the acquiring person or group, for shares of our common stock or the stock of the third party acquirer having a value of twice the right’s then-current exercise price. These provisions are designed to encourage potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors and give our board of directors an opportunity to consider various alternatives to increase stockholder value. These provisions are also intended to discourage certain tactics that may be used in proxy contests. However, the potential issuance of preferred stock, our charter and bylaw provisions, the restrictions in Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law and our stockholder rights plan could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control, which may adversely affect the market price of our stock. These provisions and plans may also have the effect of preventing changes in our management or board of directors. We may be the subject of securities class action litigation due to future stock price volatility. In the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have often initiated securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. The lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 