Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. We operate in a highly competitive, dynamic and rapidly changing industry that involves numerous risks and uncertainties. Moreover, our debt instruments impose restrictions on us that are for the benefit of certain of our creditors, but not necessarily for our stockholders or us. Anyone who is making an investment decision regarding our securities should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect our company or your investment. Other risks and uncertainties that we do not presently consider to be material, or of which we are not presently aware, may become important factors that adversely affect our security holders or us in the future. If any of the risks discussed below actually materialize, our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and future prospects, or your investment in our securities, could be materially and adversely affected, resulting in a loss of all or part of your investment. Risks Related to our Current Reorganization cases under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code If the Plan of Reorganization is Substantially Consummated, our shareholders will receive nothing. If the Plan of Reorganization is Substantially Consummated (see “Bankruptcy Proceedings” under Item 1 above), all existing equity interests of the Company shall be cancelled and such equity holders shall receive nothing. As a result, current and potential investors should be aware that any interest they hold in the Company will decrease in value and become worthless through the bankruptcy proceeding. Specific Risks Related to our Current Reorganization On the Petition Date (July 12, 2010), the Debtors (RHC, RBH and ROC) filed voluntary petitions in the Bankruptcy Court for reorganization of its business and to have the Chapter 11 Cases jointly administered, as disclosed on a Form 8-K filed with the SEC on July 14, 2010. On the Petition Date and prior to the commencement of the Chapter 11 Cases, the Company entered into the Lock-Up Agreement with holders (the Consenting Lenders), in the aggregate, of in excess of 66 2/3% in the amount of all of the outstanding claims under Debtors’ credit and fixed rate swap agreements, which are described in detail in Note 9 to the audited consolidated financial statements accompanying this Form 10-K. Pursuant to the Lock-Up Agreement, the Consenting Lenders were contractually obligated to support the restructuring of the Debtors in accordance with the Plan of Reorganization. Moreover, the Lock-Up Agreement contractually obligated the parties to move forward with the Plan of Reorganization for each of the Debtors. At the Confirmation Hearing on November 8, 2010, the Bankruptcy Court concluded that the Plan of Reorganization, as previously amended and modified at the Confirmation Hearing, met the requirements for confirmation, including that the requisite classes of creditors voted in favor of the Plan of Reorganization, and confirmed the Plan of Reorganization. The entry of a formal order by the Bankruptcy Court confirming the Plan of Reorganization was approved by the Bankruptcy Court and became effective on December 1, 2010. 23 During the Chapter 11 Cases and until the Substantial Consummation Date, our operations are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with bankruptcy including, but not limited to, the following: · The Chapter 11 Cases may adversely affect our business prospects and/or our ability to operate during the reorganization. · The Chapter 11 Cases and expected difficulties of operating our properties while attempting to reorganize the business in bankruptcy may make it more difficult to maintain and promote our properties and attract customers to our properties. · The Chapter 11 Cases may cause our vendors and service providers to require stricter terms and conditions. · The Chapter 11 Cases may adversely affect our ability to maintain our gaming licenses in the jurisdictions in which we operate. · The Chapter 11 Cases may adversely affect our ability to maintain, expand, develop and remodel our properties. · Transactions by us outside the ordinary course of business are subject to the prior approval of the Bankruptcy Court, which may limit our ability to respond timely to certain events or take advantage of certain opportunities. · We may be unable to retain and motivate key executives and employees through the process of reorganization, and we may have difficulty attracting new employees. In addition, so long as the Chapter 11 Cases continues, our senior management will be required to spend a significant amount of time and effort dealing with the reorganization instead of focusing exclusively on business operations. · There can be no assurances as to our ability to maintain sufficient funds to meet future obligations. We are currently sustaining ourselves with cash flow from operations. If we are required to obtain a debtor in possession, or DIP, financing, we have may be unable to obtain such financing and if obtained, may not be able to operate pursuant to the terms. The challenges of obtaining DIP financing are exacerbated by adverse conditions in the general economy and the tightening in the credit markets. · There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully consummate the Plan of Reorganization with respect to the Chapter 11 Cases that is acceptable to the Bankruptcy Court and the Company’s creditors and other parties in interest. Additionally, third parties may seek and obtain the appointment of a Chapter 11 Trustee, or to convert the cases to Chapter 7 cases. Even assuming a successful emergence from Chapter 11, there can be no assurance as to the overall long-term viability of our reorganized company. 24 We May Not Be Able To Consummate The Plan Of Reorganization. Before the Plan of Reorganization can be substantially consummated, various regulatory and third party approvals must be obtained. There is no assurance that all regulatory and third party approvals will be obtained. If the Plan of Reorganization is not substantially consummated: (a) the Plan of Reorganization will be deemed null and void and the Company will then seek to reorganize pursuant to a different plan which will need to meet the confirmation standards of the Bankruptcy Code; (b) the Lockup Agreement will no longer be in effect; and (c) the Company may be required to obtain interim financing, if available, and liquidate its assets which may have a material adverse effect on the financial position, results of operations, or cash flows of the Company. The Uncertainty Regarding The Eventual Outcome Of Our Chapter 11 Cases And The Effect Of Other Unknown Adverse Factors Could Threaten Our Existence As A Going Concern. We are currently operating under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, and our continuation as a going concern is contingent upon, among other things, substantially consummating a reorganization plan as described in Item 1 above, maintaining our gaming licenses, complying with the terms of existing and future loan agreements, returning to profitability, generating sufficient cash flows from operations, obtaining financing sources to meet future obligations, maintaining the support of key vendors and customers and retaining key personnel, along with financial, business, and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Further, it is uncertain whether we will lose valuable contracts in the process of the Chapter 11 Cases. The audited consolidated financial statements of Riviera Holdings Corporation included in this Form 10-K have been prepared assuming that the Company will continue as a going concern. However, the report of our independent registered public accounting firm on the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Riviera Holdings Corporation as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010 includes an explanatory paragraph describing the existence of substantial doubt about the ability of the Company to continue as a going concern. This report, as well as our uncertain ability to pay our debt service obligations, may adversely impact our ability to attract customers to our properties, attract and retain key executive employees and maintain and promote our properties which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Risks Relating To Our Business And Our Capital Structure We Are in Breach of Covenants Under Our Credit Facility, Including Timely Payments of Interest, And May Need To Seek Debtor In Possession Financing Or Alternative Financing In The Future. The Company has not complied with all covenants under the Credit Facility, including its obligation to make payments under the Credit Facility (see Note 9 to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements). Furthermore, the filing of the Debtors’ voluntary petitions in the Bankruptcy Court constituted an event of default that trigger certain repayment obligations arising under the Credit Facility. Upon the occurrence of such event, the obligations arising under the Credit Agreement were automatically accelerated and all other amounts due thereunder became immediately due and payable. The acceleration of the obligations under the Credit Agreement and the enforcement of the remedies under the Credit Facility as a result of an event of default were stayed as a result of the filings in the Bankruptcy Court. 25 Pursuant to the approved Cash Collateral Stipulation, the Company is funding existing operations and capital needs during the reorganization period from operating cash flows and cash on hand. There can be no assurances that the Company will have the ability to maintain sufficient funds to meet future obligations or abide the requirements outlined in the Cash Collateral Stipulation. As a result, the Company may be required to obtain debtor in possession, or DIP, financing, which may be unavailable or only available on terms that are prohibitive. The challenges of obtaining DIP financing are exacerbated by adverse conditions in the general economy and the credit markets. The Plan of Reorganization to restructure our debt became effective on December 1, 2010. Before the Plan of Reorganization can be substantially consummated, various regulatory and third party approvals must be obtained. There is no assurance that all regulatory and third party approvals will be obtained. If the Plan of Reorganization is not substantially consummated: (a) the Plan of Reorganization will be deemed null and void and the Company will then seek to reorganize pursuant to a different plan which will need to meet the confirmation standards of the Bankruptcy Code; (b) the Lockup Agreement will no longer be in effect; and (c) the Company may be required to obtain interim financing, if available, and liquidate its assets which may have a material adverse effect on the financial position, results of operations, or cash flows of the Company. Our Independent Auditors Have Expressed Doubt About Our Ability To Continue As A Going Concern. This Could Make It More Difficult For Us To Raise Funds and Adversely Affect Our Relationships With Lenders, Investors and Suppliers Our independent registered public accounting firm included an explanatory paragraph that expresses substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern in their audit reports contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. We cannot provide any assurance that we will in fact operate our business profitably, maintain existing financings, or obtain sufficient financing in the future to sustain our business in the event we are not successful in our efforts to generate sufficient revenue and operating cash flow. The accompanying consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on the recoverability and classification of assets or the amounts and classification of liabilities that may result from the outcome of this uncertainty. The Current Disruption in the Credit Markets and its Effects on the Global and Domestic Economies Could Adversely Affect our Business. Recent substantial volatility in the global capital markets and widely-documented commercial credit market disruptions had a significant negative impact on financial markets, as well as the global and domestic economies. The effects of these disruptions are widespread and difficult to quantify, and it is impossible to predict when the global financial markets will improve. There is now general consensus among economists that the economies of the U.S. and much of the rest of the world were in a deep recession from late 2007 through 2009 and that the effects of this recession continue to be felt. As a result, we have and are continuing to experience reduced demand for our hotel rooms, gaming products and other services. Continued weakness in demand and in consumer and commercial spending may drive us and our competitors to continue to reduce pricing, in particularly room rates, which would have a negative impact on our gross profit. These adverse effects would likely be exacerbated if current global economic conditions persist or worsen resulting in wide-ranging, adverse and prolonged effects on general business conditions and our operations, financial results and liquidity. 26 We Face Intense Competition In The Two Markets Where We Operate In Las Vegas, competition has continued to increase as a result of factors such as the ongoing economic recession, hotel room inventory increases, gaming floor expansions in addition to convention, trade show and meeting space additions. Our success depends on the ability of Riviera Las Vegas to attract customers and realize corresponding revenues. Riviera Las Vegas competes with casino resort properties and hotels in the Las Vegas area. Currently, there are approximately 30 major gaming properties located on or near the Las Vegas Strip, approximately ten additional major gaming properties in the downtown area and many additional gaming properties located in other areas of Las Vegas. Riviera Las Vegas competes with these properties based on overall atmosphere, range of amenities, level of service, price, location, entertainment offered, shopping and restaurant facilities, theme and size. Companies that own and operate multiple hotel/casino facilities operate many of the gaming properties in Las Vegas. These companies have greater name recognition and financial and marketing resources than we do and often market to the same target demographic groups as we do. In Black Hawk/Central City, the primary competitive differentiators are location, availability and convenience of parking, number of gaming devices, promotional incentives, hotel rooms, types and pricing of non-gaming amenities, name recognition and overall atmosphere. Our main competitors are the larger gaming facilities especially those with considerable on-site or nearby parking facilities, hotel rooms and established reputations in the local market. Two of the most successful casinos in Colorado are considerably larger than Riviera Black Hawk and are located across the street from our casino. Three other casinos in our market offer hotel accommodations as well as gaming facilities and thereby have some competitive advantages over us. There have also been efforts in Colorado by Native American tribes to acquire land to use for construction of a casino that would operate without the limitations imposed on the Colorado casino industry. Additionally, there have been efforts by other parties to amend the Colorado Constitution to permit the installation of slot machines at five racetracks. To date, the Native American casino initiatives in Colorado have either been rejected or have failed to win support from government authorities. Moreover, in 2003, a race track/slot machine initiative was rejected by Colorado voters. Our Colorado operations could be adversely affected if either one of these initiatives gain the necessary approvals. In addition to the competition that we face from our competitors in Las Vegas and Colorado, we face increasing competition from other companies in the gaming industry generally, such as land-based casinos, dockside casinos, riverboat casinos, casinos located on Native American land and other forms of legalized gambling. We risk losing market share if other casinos operate more successfully or are enhanced or expanded or are established in or around the locations where we conduct business. The number of casinos on Native American lands has increased since enactment of the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act of 1988. In 2000, California voters approved an amendment to the California Constitution that allows Las Vegas-style gaming on Native American lands in that state. Additionally, California voters recently passed Propositions 94, 95, 96 and 97 which allow two tribes near San Diego to each increase their slot machine volume from 2,000 slot machines to 7,500 slot machines and two tribes near Palm Springs to each increase their slot machine volume from 2,000 slot machines to 5,000 slot machines. While it is difficult to determine the impact of these new gaming jurisdictions, the continued expansion of gaming in California poses a more serious threat to the continued growth of Las Vegas. We also compete, to some extent, with other forms of gaming on both a local and national level, including state sponsored lotteries, Internet gaming, on- and off-track wagering and card parlors. In particular, the legalization of gaming or the expansion of legalized gaming in or near any geographic area from which we attract or expect to attract a significant number of our customers could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. 27 Increased competition may also require us to make substantial capital expenditures to maintain or enhance the competitive positions of our two properties. Because we are highly leveraged and have considerable constraints on our available cash, we might not have sufficient financing to make such expenditures. If we are unable to make such expenditures, our competitive position, results of operations and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Our Company Operates In Only the Las Vegas And Black Hawk Markets Which Exposes Us To Greater Risks Than Gaming Companies With A Presence In More Markets We do not have material assets or operations other than Riviera Las Vegas and Riviera Black Hawk. Therefore, we are entirely dependent upon these two properties for our cash flow. This makes us more sensitive to events and conditions affecting the markets in which we operate, including the following: · weak macroeconomic conditions; · weak local economic conditions; · increased competitive conditions; · inaccessibility due to weather conditions, road construction or closure of primary access routes; · decline in air passenger traffic due to higher ticket costs or fears concerning air travel; · a decline in automobile traffic due to higher gasoline prices; · changes in state and local laws and regulations, including those affecting gaming; · an increase in the cost of electrical power for Riviera Las Vegas as a result of, among other things, power shortages in California or other western states with which Nevada shares a single regional power grid; · a decline in the number of visitors to Las Vegas or the number of Colorado residents who visit Black Hawk; · a decline in hotel room rates in Las Vegas due to increased hotel room supply without offsetting hotel room demand; · a decline in the number of hotel guest in Las Vegas due to the 3% hotel room tax increase bill which was approved by the Nevada Legislature in March 2009; and · a potential increase in the gaming tax rate in any jurisdiction in which we operate. We Are Dependent On Key Personnel Whom We Might Have Difficulty Replacing Due To Market Perceptions About Our Prospects Our ability to operate successfully is dependent, in part, upon the continued services of certain of our executive personnel. Our loss of any of them or our inability to attract or retain key employees in the future could have a material adverse effect on us. Market perceptions about our future prospects due to the Bankruptcy Proceedings described in Item 1 above may make it more difficult for us to find suitable replacements if we lose the services of our executives or other key personnel, which in turn might make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified personnel at that high level. 28 Regulations Issued By Gaming Or Other Governmental Authorities Could Adversely Affect Our Operations As owners and operators of gaming facilities, we are subject to extensive governmental regulation. The ownership, management and operation of gaming facilities are subject to extensive laws, regulations and ordinances, which are administered by various federal, state and local government entities and agencies. The gaming authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate have broad authority and discretion to require us and our officers, directors, managers, employees and certain security holders to obtain various licenses, registrations, permits, findings of suitability or other approvals. To enforce applicable gaming regulations, gaming authorities may, among other things, limit, suspend or revoke the licenses of any gaming entity or individual, and may levy fines against us or individuals or may cause us to forfeit our assets for violations of gaming laws or regulations. Any of these actions would have a material adverse effect on us. Nevada and Colorado state and local government authorities require us to obtain gaming licenses and require our officers and key employees to demonstrate suitability to be involved in gaming operations. Those authorities may limit, condition, suspend or revoke a license for any cause they deem reasonable. Also, if we violate any gaming laws or regulations, those authorities may levy substantial fines against us or the individuals involved in the violations. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. We can not assure you that any new licenses, registrations, findings of suitability, permits and approvals will be granted or that our existing ones will be renewed when they expire. Any failure to renew or maintain our licenses or receive new licenses when necessary would have a material adverse effect on us. We are subject to a variety of other laws, rules and regulations, including those pertaining to zoning, environmental matters, construction, land use and the serving of alcoholic beverages. We also pay substantial taxes and fees in connection with our operations as a gaming company, which taxes and fees are subject to increases or other changes at any time. Any changes to these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Our compliance costs associated with these laws, regulations and licenses are significant. A change in the laws, regulations and licenses applicable to our business or a violation of any of them could require us to make material expenditures or could otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. In Black Hawk and in other jurisdictions from which we attract customers, gaming is subject to local referendum. If the results of a referendum held in a jurisdiction in which we operate were to restrict gaming in whole or in part or if the results of a referendum in a nearby non-gaming jurisdiction were to permit gaming, especially video lottery terminals or slot machines in racetracks in and around the Denver area, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. 29 We Are Subject To Potential Exposure To Environmental Liabilities Generally, we are subject to various federal, state and local governmental laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge, emission and disposal of hazardous materials. Failure to comply could result in the imposition of severe penalties or restrictions on our operations by governmental agencies or courts. We experienced a diesel leak at our Las Vegas property. Our continuing efforts to monitor and remediate the effects of this leak, which occurred in 2002, have been affected by construction at neighboring projects. We are continuing to monitor this matter. In order to come to final resolution regarding this issue with the Nevada Department of Environmental Protection, we may be required to take remediation steps including the excavation of the effected area. We are unable to estimate the cost of remediation at the present time. Riviera Black Hawk is located within a 400-square mile area that in 1983 was designated as the Clear Creek Central/City National Priorities List Site Study Area under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended. Although Riviera Black Hawk is not within any of the specific areas currently identified for investigation or remediation under that statute, environmental problems may subsequently be discovered, including in connection with any future construction on our property. Furthermore, governmental authorities could broaden their investigations and identify areas of concern within the site and as a result, we could be identified as a “potentially responsible party” and any related liability could have a material adverse effect on us. We do not have insurance to cover environmental liabilities, if we incur any. Energy Price Increases May Adversely Affect Our Costs Of Operations And Our Revenues Our casino properties use significant amounts of electricity, natural gas and other forms of energy. Recent substantial increases in the cost of electricity in the United States have negatively affected our operating results and are likely to continue to do so. The extent of the impact is subject to the magnitude and duration of energy price increases, but this impact could be material. In addition, energy price increases in cities that constitute a significant source of customers for our properties could result in a decline in disposable income of potential customers and a corresponding decrease in visitation to our properties which could negatively impact our revenues. Our Business, Financial Condition, Results Of Operations And Future Prospects Are Dependent On Many Factors That Are Beyond Our Control The economic health of our business is generally affected by a number of factors that are beyond our control, including: · the ability to Substantially Consummate the Plan of Reorganization as described in Item 1 above; · general economic conditions including the impact of a worsening macroeconomic environment; · economic conditions specific to our primary markets; · general condition of the banking and credit markets; · decline in tourism and travel due to concerns about homeland security, terrorism or other destabilizing events; · decline in the Las Vegas convention business; · the ability to renegotiate union contracts in Las Vegas; 30 · intense competitive conditions in the gaming industry including the possibility of the approval of video lottery terminals and/or slot machines at racetracks in and around the Denver area and the effect such conditions may have on the pricing of our games and products; · changes in the regulatory regimes affecting our business, including changes to applicable gaming, employment, environmental or tax regulations; · inaccessibility to our property due to construction on adjoining or nearby properties, streets or walkways; · substantial increases in the cost of electricity, natural gas and other forms of energy; · local conditions in key gaming markets, including seasonal and weather-related factors; · increased transportation costs; · levels of disposable income of casino customers; · continued increases in health care costs; · increases in gaming taxes or fees; · increases in Clark County facilities inspection fees and resulting remedial actions; · the relative popularity of entertainment alternatives to casino gaming that compete for the leisure dollar; · an outbreak or suspicion of an outbreak of an infectious communicable disease; and · the impact of the smoking ban in Colorado on our Riviera Black Hawk property which became effective January 1, 2008 and the possible adoption of additional anti-smoking regulations. Any of these factors could negatively impact our property or the casino industry generally, and as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations. We May Incur Losses That Are Not Adequately Covered By Insurance Insurance may not be available in the future or adequate to cover all loss or damage to which our business or our assets might be subjected. Since the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, insurance coverage has diminished for certain types of damages or occurrences and is no longer available at reasonable commercial rates. The lack of adequate insurance for certain types or levels of risk could expose us to significant losses if a catastrophe or lawsuit occurs for which we do not have insurance coverage. Any losses we incur that are not adequately covered by insurance may decrease our future operating income, require us to pay the costs of replacing or repairing destroyed property and reduce the funds available for payment of our debt obligations. 31 We Are Subject To Litigation, Which, If Adversely Determined, Could Cause Us To Incur Substantial Losses From time to time during the normal course of operating our business, we are subject to various litigation claims and other legal disputes. Some of the litigation claims may not be covered under our insurance policies or our insurance carriers may seek to deny coverage. As a result, we might be required to incur significant legal fees, which may have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, because we cannot predict the outcome of any legal action, it is possible that as a result of litigation, we will be subject to adverse judgments or settlements that could significantly reduce our results from operations. Homeland Security, Terrorism And War Concerns, As Well As Other Factors Affecting Discretionary Consumer Spending, May Harm Our Operating Results The strength and profitability of our business depend on consumer demand for hotel/casino resorts, gaming in general and the types of amenities we offer. Changes in consumer preferences or discretionary consumer spending could harm our business. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, ongoing war activities and concerns about terrorism and homeland security have had a negative impact on travel and leisure expenditures, including lodging, gaming (in some jurisdictions) and tourism. We cannot predict the extent to which those events may continue to affect us, directly or indirectly, in the future. An extended period of reduced discretionary spending or disruptions or declines in travel could significantly harm our operations. In addition to concerns about war, homeland security and terrorism, other factors affecting discretionary consumer spending include; consumers’ confidence in general or regional economic conditions, consumers’ disposable income, consumers fears of a continued or worsening economic recession or an economic depression. Negative changes in factors affecting discretionary spending could reduce customer demand for the products and services we offer, thus imposing practical limits on our pricing and harming our operations. If the State of Nevada or Clark County increases gaming taxes and fees, our results of operations could be adversely affected. State and local authorities raise a significant amount of revenue through taxes and fees on gaming activities. From time to time, legislators and officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of such laws, affecting the gaming industry. In addition, worsening economic conditions could intensify the efforts of state and local governments to raise revenues through increases in gaming taxes. If the State of Nevada or Clark County, Nevada were to increase gaming taxes and fees, our results of operations could be adversely affected. There are several gaming tax increase proposals currently circulating in Nevada. One such proposal, a 3% increase in the hotel room revenue tax, was approved in March 2009 by the Nevada legislature. These proposals would take the form of voter referendum. If successfully implemented, such an increase would have a material adverse affect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. If Clark County increases facilities inspection fees and such inspections result in significant remedial actions, our results of operations could be adversely affected. During the last several months, Clark County Authorities commenced a program to inspect the facilities at Las Vegas hotels and casinos primarily for building code compliance and life and safety issues. Inspections of Riviera Las Vegas are scheduled for 2011 and we are responsible for the inspection costs as well as the cost to correct any significant issues outlined in the inspector’s report. If the costs of these inspections and related corrective actions are significant, it could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 32 Risks Relating To Our Common Stock Our Stock Price Has Been Volatile Which Could Result In Substantial Losses For Our Stockholders. During the 52 weeks ended December 31, 2010, our stock’s average closing sale price as reported on the Pink OTC Markets quotation system fluctuated from a high of $0.51 per share to a low of $0.03 per share. On average, 43,344 shares traded per day for the three months ended December 31, 2010. The volatility of the trading price of our stock could be due to many factors including, but not limited to: · effect that if the Plan of Reorganization is Substantially Consummated (see “Bankruptcy Proceedings” under Item 1 above), all existing equity interests of the Company shall be cancelled and such equity holders shall receive nothing; · the effect of the Credit Defaults, as described in Note 9 to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements; · the effect of the Company filing for protection under Chapter 11 of the U. S. Bankruptcy Code; · the effect of our independent auditors expressing doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern; · the relatively low liquidity and marketability associated with trading in the over-the-counter market; · the relatively low trading price of and trading volume for our stock; · current economic conditions and expectation regarding future economic conditions; · quarterly fluctuations in our financial results; · the effect that fluctuations in our stock price will have on other parties’ willingness to make a proposal to acquire us; · ownership of a large number of our outstanding shares by a small group of stockholders, coupled with our 60% affirmative vote requirement to effectuate a successful merger, may inhibit other parties from engaging in merger negotiations with us; · fluctuations in Las Vegas real estate values, particularly as they affect property on the Las Vegas Strip; · the current credit market and banking environment; · changes in analysts’ estimates of our financial performance or future prospects; · announcements of new services or programs; 33 · additions or departures of key personnel; · general conditions in our industry and in the financial markets; and · a variety of other risk factors including the ones described elsewhere in this report. Interruption in the quotation of our common stock on the Pink Sheets has negatively affected the trading volume and price of our common stock. Due to an administrative error by FINRA and the Pink Sheets relating to the Bankruptcy Cases, quotation of our common stock on the Pink Sheets was interrupted but then reinstated during February 2011. Quotation of our common stock continues to be negatively affected by this interruption, which, in addition to the Bankruptcy Cases, has contributed to the decline in trading volume and price of our common stock. There Are Requirements and Limitations On Changes In Control Of Our Company That Could Reduce The Ability To Sell Our Shares In Excess Of Current Market Prices Our Credit Facility consists of a seven year $225 million term loan which matures on June 8, 2014 and a $3 million five year revolving credit facility. The terms of the Credit Facility restrict the ability of anyone to effect a change in control of our company. If anyone acquires 35% or more of our outstanding stock or if other events occur that constitute a change in control according to our Credit Facility, we have to make a prompt offer to repay the Credit Facility. It is unlikely that we would have the funds to repay the Credit Facility within the required time frame unless we obtained the necessary funding as part of the change in control transaction which adds significantly to the funding that a buyer would need to acquire our company. Our Credit Facility also would require us to obtain the consent of holders of a majority of the outstanding principal amount of the Credit Facility in order for us to be a party to a merger or to sell all or substantially all of our assets unless, after giving effect to the transaction, we meet certain net worth or financial ratio tests, which might be difficult or impossible for us to meet. In addition to the above, a buyer would be required to pay our Swap balance of $22.1 million. Moreover, a buyer would be required to pay accrued interest on the Credit Facility and Swap which was $26.0 million as of December 31, 2010. Furthermore, our Articles of Incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could reduce the likelihood of a change in control or acquisition of our company. These could limit your ability to sell your shares at a premium or otherwise affect the price of our common stock. These provisions: · limit the voting power of persons who acquire more than 10% of our outstanding stock without our prior approval; · permit us to issue up to 60 million shares of common stock; · permit us to increase the size of our Board of Directors and fill the resulting vacancies without a vote by stockholders; and · limit the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders. 34 In addition, Nevada law contains provisions governing the acquisition of a substantial or controlling interest in certain publicly-held Nevada corporations, including our company. Those laws provide generally that any person who acquires more than a specified percentage of our outstanding stock must obtain certain approvals from us before the acquisition or they might be denied voting rights or the ability to engage in various transactions with us, unless our disinterested stockholders vote to restore those rights. The ownership percentage that triggers some of these restrictions is 10%, and further restrictions can be triggered at the 20%, 33-1/3% or 50.1% ownership level. Also, a person that seeks to acquire control must satisfy the licensing requirements of the Nevada and Colorado gaming authorities. The gaming authorities may also require controlling stockholders, officers, directors and other persons having a material relationship or involvement with a person proposing to acquire control to be investigated and licensed as part of the approval process relating to the transaction. Nevada law also provides that we may resist a change or potential change in control if our Board of Directors determines that the change is not in the best interest of our company. On November 19, 2008, we entered into a separate investment agreement (each an “Investment Agreement”) with each of Plainfield Special Situations Master Fund Limited (“Plainfield”) and Desert Rock Enterprises LLC (“Desert Rock”) relating, among other things, to the acquisition of our common stock. We currently do not have any plans to issue and sell any shares of our common stock to either Plainfield or Desert Rock. The principal terms of each agreement provides for, among other things, (a) that our Board of Directors has, in connection with their potential acquisition of our common stock, (i) waived, in accordance with subsection 7(g) of Article III of our Articles of Incorporation, the voting limitation set forth in subsection 7(b) of Article III of the Articles of Incorporation with respect to Desert Rock and Plainfield (and their respective affiliates and related entities collectively, the “Investor Group”), and (ii) approved the acquisition of our common stock pursuant to the Investment Agreements in accordance with the provisions of subsection 78.438(1) of Title 7 of the Nevada Revised Statutes, (b) each Investor Group’s agreement not to directly or indirectly acquire any of our common stock, or otherwise become part of a group, if immediately after giving effect to such acquisition or group formation, the Investor Group, or any group of which it is a part, would have beneficial ownership of our common stock in excess of fifteen percent (15%) of the outstanding common stock, unless specifically approved in writing by our Board of Directors, subject to certain limited exceptions, (c) an agreement by each of Plainfield and Desert Rock to a standstill period (which ended on September 1, 2010) during which time it could not take certain actions involving the Company including without limitation to solicit proxies or become a participant in a proxy solicitation with respect to our securities or submit a proposal or offer involving a merger, business combination, acquisition tender or other similar type transaction, except under certain limited circumstances, (d) ) an agreement by each of Plainfield and Desert Rock not to vote any securities it holds in excess of the amount permitted to be purchased pursuant to clause (b) above, and (e) ) each of Plainfield and Desert Rock to seek to obtain any approvals that may be required from the Nevada and Colorado gaming authorities in connection with the acquisition of our common stock pursuant to the Investment Agreements. We Have Never Paid Dividends, Do Not Intend To Pay Dividends In The Foreseeable Future And Cannot Pay Dividends To Any Unsuitable Person We have never paid dividends on our stock, nor do we anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain our cash flow or earnings, if any, to use in our ongoing operations. Also, due to gaming law considerations, our Articles of Incorporation prohibit the payment of dividends to anyone who is deemed an “unsuitable person” or is an affiliate of an “unsuitable person.” 35 Certain Owners Of Our Stock May Have To File An Application With, And Be Investigated By, The Nevada And/Or Colorado Gaming Authorities. If That Owner Is Deemed “Unsuitable,” That Stockholder Could Lose Most Of The Attributes Of Being A Stockholder And It Could have a Detrimental Effect On Us As defined in Nevada gaming regulations, any person who acquires more than 5% of a Registered Corporation’s voting securities must report the acquisition to the Nevada Commission. Nevada gaming regulations also require that beneficial owners of more than 10% of our voting securities apply to the Nevada Commission for a finding of suitability within thirty days after the Chairman of the Nevada Board mails the written notice requiring such filing. However, an “institutional investor,” as defined in the Nevada gaming regulations, which acquires more than 10%, but not more than 11% of our voting securities as a result of a stock repurchase by us may not be required to file such an application. Further, an institutional investor that acquires more than 10% but not more than 25% of our voting securities may apply to the Nevada Commission for a waiver of such finding of suitability if such institutional investor holds our voting securities for investment purposes only. An institutional investor that has obtained a waiver may hold more than 25% but not more than 29% of our voting securities and maintain its waiver where the additional ownership results from a stock repurchase by us. However, any beneficial owner of our voting securities, regardless of the number of shares owned, may be required, at the discretion of the Nevada Commission, to apply for a finding of suitability. A finding of suitability is comparable to licensing, and the applicant must pay all costs of investigation incurred by the Nevada gaming authorities in conducting the investigation. Any such person who fails to apply for a finding of suitability within 30 days after being ordered to do so by the Nevada Commission may be found to be unsuitable. Any person who is found by the Nevada Commission to be unsuitable to be a beneficial owner of our voting securities but continues such beneficial ownership beyond the period of time prescribed by the Nevada Commission may be guilty of a criminal offense. We will be subject to disciplinary action if, after we receive notice that a person is unsuitable to be a beneficial owner of our voting securities or to have any other relationship with us, we: · pay that person any dividend or interest on our voting securities; · allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any voting right conferred through our voting securities held by that person; · pay that person any remuneration in any form for services rendered or otherwise; or · fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require that person to relinquish our voting securities for cash at fair market value. Colorado requires that persons owning, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of our stock be certified as suitable for licensure. Persons found unsuitable by the Colorado Commission may be required immediately to terminate any direct or indirect beneficial interest in our voting securities. A finding of unsuitability with respect to any beneficial owner also may jeopardize our license. The annual renewal of our license may be conditioned upon the termination of any beneficial interest in our voting securities by unsuitable persons. 36 We May Redeem Shares Due To Gaming Law Considerations, Either As Required By Gaming Authorities Or In Our Discretion Our articles of incorporation provide that if a gaming authority determines that any stockholder or its affiliates are unsuitable, or if deemed necessary or advisable by us for gaming law considerations, we may redeem shares of our stock that the stockholder or the stockholder’s affiliates own or control. The redemption price will be the amount required by the gaming authority or, if the gaming authority does not determine the price, the price deemed reasonable by us. If we determine the redemption price, that price will be capped at the market price of the shares on the date we give the redemption notice. We may pay the redemption price in cash, by promissory note, or both, as required by the applicable gaming authority and, if not so required, as we elect. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 