RISK FACTORS The risk factors described below should be carefully considered. Risks Relating to Our Business Our Regulated’s revenues, earnings, and results are dependent on state legislation and regulation that affect electric generation, distribution, and related activities, which may limit our ability to recover costs. Our Regulated business unit is regulated on a cost-of-service/rate-of-return basis subject to the statutes and regulatory commission rules and procedures of Kentucky, Indiana, and Ohio. If our earnings exceed the returns established by our state regulatory commissions, our retail electric rates may be subject to review by the commissions and possible reduction, which may decrease our future earnings. Our sales may decrease if we are unable to gain adequate, reliable, and affordable access to transmission and distribution assets. We depend on transmission and distribution facilities owned and operated by utilities and other energy companies to deliver the electricity and natural gas we sell to the wholesale market, as well as the natural gas we purchase to supply to our gas customers. FERC’s power transmission regulations require wholesale electric transmission services to be offered on an open-access, non-discriminatory basis; however, not all markets are as open and accessible as needed. If transmission is disrupted, or if transmission capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver products may be hindered. Such disruptions could also hinder our providing electricity or natural gas to our retail electric and gas customers and may materially adversely affect our business. The different regional power markets have changing regulatory structures, which could affect our growth and performance in these regions. In addition, the independent system operators who oversee the transmission systems in regional power markets, such as California, have imposed in the past, and may impose in the future, price limitations and other mechanisms to address volatility in the power markets. These types of price limitations and other mechanisms may adversely impact the profitability of our wholesale power marketing and trading business. Competition in the unregulated markets in which we operate may adversely affect the growth and profitability of our business. We may not be able to respond in a timely or effective manner to the many changes designed to increase competition in the electric industry. To the extent competitive pressures increase, the economics of our business may come under long-term pressure. In addition, regulatory changes have been proposed to increase access to electricity transmission grids by utility and non-utility purchasers and sellers of electricity. These changes could continue the disaggregation of many vertically integrated utilities into separate generation, transmission, distribution, and retail businesses. As a result, a 21 significant number of additional competitors could become active in the wholesale power generation segment of our industry. We may also face competition from new competitors that have greater financial resources than we do, seeking attractive opportunities to acquire or develop energy assets or energy trading operations in the United States. These new competitors may include sophisticated financial institutions, some of which are already entering the energy trading and marketing sector, and international energy players, which may enter regulated or unregulated energy businesses. This competition may adversely affect our ability to make investments or acquisitions. We rely on access to short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets to finance our capital requirements and support our liquidity needs, and our access to those markets can be adversely affected by a number of conditions, many of which are beyond our control. Our business is financed to a large degree through debt and the maturity and repayment profile of debt used to finance investments often does not correlate to cash flows from our assets. Accordingly, we rely on access to both short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from our operations and to fund investments originally financed through debt instruments with disparate maturities. If we are not able to access capital at competitive rates, our ability to finance our operations and implement our strategy will be adversely affected. Market disruptions may increase our cost of borrowing or adversely affect our ability to access one or more financial markets. Such disruptions could include: economic downturns; the bankruptcy of an unrelated energy company; capital market conditions generally; market prices for electricity, gas, and natural gas liquids; terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on our facilities or unrelated energy companies; or the overall health of the energy industry. Restrictions on our ability to access financial markets may also affect our ability to execute our business plan as scheduled. An inability to access capital may limit our ability to pursue improvements or acquisitions that we may otherwise rely on for future growth. We maintain revolving credit facilities to provide back-up for commercial paper programs and/or letters of credit at various entities. These facilities typically include financial covenants which limit the amount of debt that can be outstanding as a percentage of the total capital for the specific entity. Failure to maintain these covenants at a particular entity could preclude that entity from issuing commercial paper or letters of credit or borrowing under the revolving credit facility and could require other of our affiliates to immediately pay down any outstanding drawn amounts under other revolving credit agreements. We will be exposed to market risk and may incur losses from the trading operations and/or activities we take to mitigate our commodity exposure. We have trading operations that primarily consist of contracts to buy and sell commodities, including contracts for electricity, natural gas, and other commodities that are settled by the delivery of the commodity or cash. Our trading portfolios also include financial derivatives, including swaps, futures, and options. If the values of these contracts or derivatives change in a direction or manner that we do not anticipate, we could realize material losses from our trading activities. In order to manage our financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, primarily with respect to power and natural gas, coal, and emission allowances, our risk management operations routinely enter into contracts to hedge the value of our assets and operations, including fixed-price, forward, physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps, and option contracts traded in over-the-counter markets or on exchanges. Our risk management systems, however, may not always be implemented properly or may not always function as planned. In particular, if prices of commodities significantly deviate from historical prices or if the price volatility or distribution of those changes deviates from historical norms, our risk management systems may not protect us from significant losses. To the extent we have unhedged positions or our hedging strategies do not work as planned, fluctuating commodity prices could cause our sales, purchases, and net income to be volatile. In 22 addition, certain types of economic hedging activity may not qualify for hedge accounting under generally accepted accounting principles, resulting in increased volatility in net income. We are exposed to credit risk of counterparties with whom we do business. Adverse economic conditions affecting, or financial difficulties of, counterparties we do business with could impair the ability of these counterparties to pay for our services or fulfill their contractual obligations, or cause them to delay such payments or obligations. We depend on these counterparties to remit payments on a timely basis. Any delay or default in payment could adversely affect our cash flows, financial condition, or results of operations. Poor investment performance of pension plan holdings and other factors impacting pension plan costs could unfavorably impact our liquidity and results of operations. Our costs of providing non-contributory defined benefit pension plans are dependent upon a number of factors, such as the rates of return on plan assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, future government regulation and our required or voluntary contributions made to the plans. While we comply with the funding requirements under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as of September 30, 2005, the latest valuation date for our pension plan obligations exceeded the value of plan assets by approximately $582 million. See “Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits” in “Item 7. MD&A – Liquidity and Capital Resources” and Note 11 of the “Notes to Financial Statements” in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for additional information. Without sustained growth in the pension investments over time to increase the value of our plan assets and depending upon the other factors impacting our costs as listed above, we could be required to fund our plans with significant amounts of cash. Such cash funding obligations could have a material impact on our liquidity by reducing our cash flows and could negatively affect our results of operations. Under Cinergy’s holding company structure, the payment of dividends to shareholders is subject to the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends to it. Cinergy is a holding company with no material assets other than the stock of its subsidiaries. Accordingly, all of its operations are conducted by its subsidiaries. Cinergy’s ability to pay dividends on its common stock will depend on the payment to it of dividends by its operating subsidiaries. These subsidiaries’ payments of dividends, in turn, depend on their results of operations, cash flows, and federal and state regulatory constraints. In addition, until consummation or termination of the merger with Duke, Cinergy is prohibited from paying dividends in excess of its historical levels without the prior consent of Duke. We could incur a significant tax liability and our results of operations and cash flows may be negatively affected if the Internal Revenue Service denies or otherwise makes unusable certain tax credits related to our coal and synthetic fuel business or if such credits are phased out based on crude oil prices. Cinergy’s sale of synthetic fuel intended to qualify for tax credits in accordance with Section 29/45K of the Internal Revenue Code has generated $339 million in tax credits through December 31, 2005. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is currently auditing Cinergy for the 2002, 2003 and 2004 tax years. If the IRS were to successfully challenge Cinergy’s Section 29/45K tax credits related to synthetic fuel, and such challenges are successful, this could result in the disallowance of up to all $339 million in previously claimed Section 29/45K tax credits and a loss of our ability to claim future Section 29/45K tax credits for synthetic fuel produced by such facilities. Section 29/45K also provides for a phase-out of the credit based on the average price of crude oil during a calendar year. The phase-out is based on a prescribed calculation and definition of crude oil prices. Based on current 23 estimates of crude oil prices and the recent volatility of such prices, we believe that for 2006 and 2007 the amount of the tax credits could be reduced. We are currently involved in litigation with the United States and several states and environmental groups regarding certain environmental matters. Cinergy is currently involved in litigation in which the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is alleging various violations of the Clean Air Act (CAA). Specifically, the lawsuit against Cinergy alleges that Cinergy violated the CAA by not obtaining permits for various projects at its owned and co-owned generating stations. Additionally, the Cinergy suit claims that Cinergy violated an Administrative Consent Order entered into in 1998 between the EPA and Cinergy relating to alleged violations of Ohio’s state implementation plan provisions governing particulate matter at one of its generating stations. Three northeast states and two environmental groups have intervened in the Cinergy case. In August 2005, the district court issued a ruling regarding the emissions test that it will apply to Cinergy at the trial of the case. Contrary to Cinergy’s argument, the district court ruled that in determining whether a project was projected to increase annual emissions, it would not hold hours of operation constant. However, the district court subsequently certified the matter for interlocutory appeal to the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals, which has accepted the appeal and set a briefing schedule. As a result, the district court has removed the trial from the calendar and will reset a trial date, if necessary, after the Seventh Circuit rules. There are a number of other legal issues currently before the district court judge, and the case is currently in discovery. A second lawsuit being defended by one of Cinergy’s co-owners involves similar allegations and is also pending. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that require significant capital expenditures, increase our cost of operations, and which may impact or limit our business plans, or expose us to environmental liabilities. We are subject to numerous environmental regulations affecting many aspects of our present and future operations, including air emissions (such as controlling greenhouse-gas emissions), water quality, wastewater discharges, solid waste and hazardous waste. These laws and regulations can result in increased capital, operating, and other costs, particularly with regard to enforcement efforts focused on power plant emissions obligations. These laws and regulations generally require us to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. Both public officials and private individuals may seek to enforce applicable environmental laws and regulations, and litigation may arise the outcome of which we cannot predict. For example, the EPA recently issued the Clean Air Interstate Rule, formerly the Interstate Air Quality Rule, which requires reductions in SO2 and NOX emissions in order to address alleged contributions to downwind non-attainment with the revised National Ambient Air Quality Standards and established a two-phase, regional cap and trade program for SO2 and NOX and issued the Clean Air Mercury Rule, which requires reductions in mercury emissions from coal-fired power plants through a similar two phase cap and trade program. Over the 2006-2010 time period, Cinergy expects to spend approximately $1.4 billion to reduce mercury, SO2, and NOX emissions. These projected expenditures include estimated costs to comply at plants that we own but do not operate and could change when taking into consideration compliance plans of co-owners or operators involved. Although we believe that we are legally entitled to recover these costs, if we cannot recover these costs in a timely manner, or in an amount sufficient to cover our actual costs, our financial conditions and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. Revised or additional regulations, which result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 24 Deregulation or restructuring in the electric industry may result in increased competition and unrecovered costs that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows and our utilities’ businesses. Increased competition resulting from deregulation or restructuring efforts, including from the recently enacted Energy Policy Act of 2005, could have a significant adverse financial impact on us and our utility subsidiaries and consequently on our results of operations and cash flows. Increased competition could also result in increased pressure to lower costs, including the cost of electricity. Retail competition and the unbundling of regulated energy and gas service could have a significant adverse financial impact on us and our subsidiaries due to an impairment of assets, a loss of retail customers, lower profit margins, or increased costs of capital. We cannot predict the extent and timing of entry by additional competitors into the electric markets. We cannot predict when we will be subject to changes in legislation or regulation, nor can we predict the impact of these changes on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Ohio has enacted electric generation deregulation legislation. Our Ohio residential and non-residential customers are served under a recently approved RSP, that runs through December 31, 2008. At this time, it is difficult to predict how the regulatory environment will look after the RSP ends. Efforts associated with completing the merger with Duke are complex and may divert management’s focus and resources from other strategic opportunities. The pending merger between Duke and Cinergy presents significant challenges. The integration of the two companies will be complex and time-consuming, due to the size and complexity of each organization. The principal challenges will be integrating the combined regulated electric utility operations and combining the unregulated wholesale power generation businesses. All of these businesses are complex, and some of the business units are dispersed. Such efforts could also divert management’s focus and resources from other strategic opportunities during the integration process. Risks Related to the Industry Our results of operations may be negatively affected by sustained downturns or sluggishness in the economy, including low levels in the market prices of commodities, all of which are beyond our control. Sustained downturns or sluggishness in the economy generally affect the markets in which we operate and negatively influence our energy operations. Declines in demand for electricity and gas as a result of economic downturns in our franchised electric and gas service territories will reduce overall electricity and gas sales and lessen our cash flows, especially as our industrial customers reduce production and, therefore, consumption of electricity and gas. Although Regulated’s business is subject to regulated allowable rates of return and recovery of fuel and emission allowance costs, and our gas transmission business is subject to mandated tariff rates, overall declines in electricity sold or the volume of gas shipped as a result of economic downturn or recession could reduce revenues and cash flows, thus diminishing results of operations. We also sell electricity into the wholesale market under both short-term and long-term contracts and enter into contracts to purchase and sell electricity, natural gas, and natural gas liquids as part of our energy marketing and trading operations. With respect to such transactions, we are not guaranteed any rate of return on our capital investments through mandated rates, and our revenues and results of operations are likely to depend, in large part, upon prevailing market prices for power, natural gas, coal, and emission allowances in our regional markets and other competitive markets. These market prices may fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time and could reduce our revenues and margins and thereby diminish our results of operations. 25 Lower demand for the electricity we sell and varying prices for electricity, natural gas, coal, and emission allowances result from multiple factors that affect the markets where we sell electricity including: • weather conditions, including abnormally mild winter or summer weather that cause lower energy usage for heating or cooling purposes, respectively; • supply of and demand for energy commodities; • illiquid markets including reductions in trading volumes, which result in lower revenues and earnings; • general economic conditions which impact energy consumption particularly in which sales to industrial or large commercial customers comprise a significant portion of total sales; • transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies, which impact our merchant energy operations; • availability of competitively-priced alternative energy sources, which are preferred by some customers over electricity produced from coal or gas plants, and of energy-efficient equipment which reduces energy demand; • electric generation capacity surpluses which cause our merchant energy plants to generate and sell less electricity at lower prices and may cause some plants to become non-economical to operate; • capacity and transmission service into, or out of, our markets; • natural disasters, acts of terrorism, wars, embargoes, and other catastrophic events to the extent they affect our operations and markets; and • federal and state energy and environmental regulation and legislation. Our business is subject to extensive regulation that will affect our operations and costs. We are subject to regulation by FERC, by federal, state, and local authorities under environmental laws and by state public utility commissions under laws regulating our businesses. Regulation affects almost every aspect of our businesses, including, among other things, our ability to: take fundamental business management actions; determine the terms and rates of our transmission and distribution businesses’ services; make acquisitions; issue equity or debt securities; engage in transactions between our utilities and other subsidiaries and affiliates; and pay dividends. Changes to these regulations are ongoing, and we cannot predict the future course of changes in this regulatory environment or the ultimate effect that this changing regulatory environment will have on our business. However, 26 changes in regulation (including re-regulating previously deregulated markets) can cause delays in or affect business planning and transactions and can substantially increase our costs. Certain events in the energy markets beyond our control have increased the level of public and regulatory scrutiny in the energy industry and in the capital markets which could have a negative impact on our financial condition or results of operations or access to capital. Due to certain events in the energy markets, regulated energy companies have been under increased scrutiny by regulatory bodies, capital markets, and credit rating agencies. This increased scrutiny could lead to substantial changes in laws and regulations affecting us, including new accounting standards that could change the way we are required to record revenues, expenses, assets, and liabilities. These types of regulations could have a negative impact on our financial condition or results of operations or access to capital. Potential terrorist activities or military or other actions could adversely affect our business. The continued threat of terrorism and the impact of retaliatory military and other action by the United States and its allies may lead to increased political, economic, and financial market instability and volatility in prices for natural gas and oil which could affect the market for our gas operations and may materially adversely affect us in ways we cannot predict at this time. In addition, future acts of terrorism and any possible reprisals as a consequence of action by the United States and its allies could be directed against companies in our industry operating in the United States. Increased environmental regulation and liabilities could subject us to significant compliance and remediation costs that adversely affect our results of operations. Our operations are subject to extensive environmental regulation pursuant to a variety of United States, and other federal, provincial, state, and municipal laws and regulations. Such environmental regulation imposes, among other things, restrictions, liabilities, obligations, and potential enforcement in connection with the generation, handling, use, storage, transportation, treatment, and disposal of hazardous substances and waste, and in connection with spills, releases and emissions of various substances into the environment. Environmental legislation also requires that our facilities, sites, and other properties associated with our operations be operated, maintained, and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities. Compliance with environmental regulations can require significant expenditures, including expenditures for cleanup costs and damages arising out of contaminated properties, and failure to comply with environmental regulations may result in the imposition of fines and penalties. The steps we take to ensure our facilities are in compliance could be prohibitively expensive, and we may be required to shut down or alter the operation of our facilities, which may cause us to incur losses. Further, our regulatory rate structure and our contracts with clients may not necessarily allow us to recover capital costs we incur to comply with new environmental regulations. Also, we may not be able to obtain or maintain, from time to time, all required environmental regulatory approvals for our development projects. If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approvals, if we fail to obtain and comply with them, or if environmental regulations change and become more stringent, the operation of our facilities or the development of new facilities could be prevented, delayed, or become subject to additional costs. Should we fail to comply with all applicable environmental laws, we may be subject to penalties and fines imposed against us by regulatory authorities. Although it is not expected that the costs of complying with current environmental regulations will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations, no assurance can be made that the costs of complying with environmental regulations in the future will not have such an effect. In addition, we are generally responsible for on-site liabilities, and in some cases off-site liabilities, associated with the environmental condition of our power generation facilities and natural gas assets which we have acquired or developed, regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether they are known or unknown. In connection with some acquisitions and sales of assets, we may obtain, or be required to provide, indemnification against some environmental liabilities. If we incur a material liability, or the other party to a transaction fails to meet its indemnification obligations to us, we could suffer material losses. 27 UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 28 PROPERTIES 