ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS: If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition would likely suffer. This section includes or refers to certain forward-looking statements. Refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on such forward-looking statements discussed in the beginning of this Form 10-K. We rely on revenues derived from major tenants. We derive significant revenues from certain anchor tenants that occupy space in more than one center. We could be adversely affected in the event of the bankruptcy or insolvency of, or a downturn in the business of, any of our major tenants, or in the event that any such tenant does not renew its leases as they expire or renews at lower rental rates. Vacated anchor space not only would reduce rental revenues if not re-tenanted at the same rental rates but also could adversely affect the entire shopping center because of the loss of the departed anchor tenant’s customer drawing power. Loss of customer drawing power also can occur through the exercise of the right that most anchors have to vacate and prevent re-tenanting by paying rent for the balance of the lease term, or the departure of an anchor tenant that owns its own property. In addition, in the event that certain major tenants cease to occupy a property, such an action may result in a significant number of other tenants having the right to terminate their leases, or pay a reduced rent based on a percentage of the tenant’s sales, at the affected property, which could adversely affect the future income from such property. Tenants may seek the protection of the bankruptcy laws, which could result in the rejection and termination of their leases and thereby cause a reduction in the cash flow available for distribution by us. Such reduction could be material if a major tenant files bankruptcy. See the risk factor titled, “The bankruptcy of, or a downturn in the business of, any of our major tenants may adversely affect our cash flows and property values” below. Limited control over joint venture investments. Our joint venture investments may involve risks not otherwise present for investments made solely by us, including the possibility that our joint venture partner might have different interests or goals than we do. Other risks of joint venture investments include impasse on decisions, such as a sale, because neither we nor a joint venture partner would have full control over the joint venture. Also, there is no limitation under our organizational documents as to the amount of funds that may be invested in joint ventures. Through our investments in joint ventures we have also invested in operating businesses that have operational risk in addition to the risks associated with real estate investments, including among other risks, human capital issues, adequate supply of product and material, and merchandising issues. During 2006 and 2005, our joint ventures provided Promote income. There can be no assurance that the joint ventures will continue to operate profitably and thus provide additional Promote income in the future. Under the terms of our Fund II joint venture, we are required to first offer to Fund II all of our opportunities to acquire retail shopping centers. Only if (i) our joint venture partner elects not to approve Fund II’s pursuit of an acquisition opportunity; (ii) the ownership of the acquisition opportunity by Fund II would create a material conflict of interest for us; (iii) we require the acquisition opportunity for a “like-kind” exchange; or (iv) the consideration payable for the acquisition opportunity is our Common Shares, OP Units or other securities, may we pursue the opportunity directly. As a result, we may not be able to make attractive acquisitions directly and may only receive a minority interest in such acquisitions through Fund II. We operate through a partnership structure, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our assets. Our primary property-owning vehicle is the Operating Partnership, of which we are the general partner. Our acquisition of properties through the Operating Partnership in exchange for interests in the Operating Partnership may permit certain tax deferral advantages to limited partners who contribute properties to the Operating Partnership. Since properties contributed to the Operating Partnership may have unrealized gain attributable to the difference between the fair market value and adjusted tax basis in such properties prior to contribution, the sale of such properties could cause adverse tax consequences to the limited partners who contributed such properties. Although we, as the general partner of the Operating Partnership, generally have no obligation to consider the tax consequences of our actions to any limited partner, there can be no assurance that the Operating Partnership will not acquire properties in the future subject to material restrictions designed to minimize the adverse tax consequences to the limited partners who contribute such properties. Such restrictions could result in significantly reduced flexibility to manage our assets. There are risks relating to investments in real estate. Real property investments are subject to varying degrees of risk. Real estate values are affected by a number of factors, including: changes in the general economic climate, local conditions (such as an oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for real estate in an area), the quality and philosophy of management, competition from other available space, the ability of the owner to provide adequate maintenance and insurance and to control variable operating costs. Shopping centers, in particular, may be affected by changing perceptions of retailers or shoppers regarding the safety, convenience and attractiveness of the shopping center and by the overall climate for the retail industry generally. Real estate values are also affected by such factors as government regulations, interest rate levels, the availability of financing and potential liability under, and changes in, environmental, zoning, tax and other laws. A significant portion of our income is derived from rental income from real property, our income and cash flow would be adversely affected if a significant number of our tenants were unable to meet their obligations, or if we were unable to lease on 12 Table of Contents economically favorable terms a significant amount of space in our properties. In the event of default by a tenant, we may experience delays in enforcing, and incur substantial costs to enforce, our rights as a landlord. In addition, certain significant expenditures associated with each equity investment (such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs) are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investment. The bankruptcy of, or a downturn in the business of, any of our major tenants may adversely affect our cash flows and property values. The bankruptcy of, or a downturn in the business of, any of our major tenants causing them to reject their leases, or not renew their leases as they expire, or renew at lower rental rates may adversely affect our cash flows and property values. Furthermore, the impact of vacated anchor space and the potential reduction in customer traffic may adversely impact the balance of tenants at the center. Certain of our tenants have experienced financial difficulties and have filed for bankruptcy under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code (“Chapter 11 Bankruptcy”). Pursuant to bankruptcy law, tenants have the right to reject their leases. In the event the tenant exercises this right, the landlord generally has the right to file a claim for lost rent equal to the greater of either one year’s rent (including tenant expense reimbursements) for remaining terms greater than one year, or 15% of the rent remaining under the balance of the lease term, but not to exceed three years rent. Actual amounts to be received in satisfaction of those claims will be subject to the tenant’s final plan of reorganization and the availability of funds to pay its creditors. Since January 1, 2003, there have been two significant tenant bankruptcies within our portfolio: On May 30, 2003, The Penn Traffic Company (“Penn Traffic”) filed for protection under Chapter 11 Bankruptcy. Penn Traffic operated in one location in our wholly-owned portfolio in 52,000 square feet. Rental revenues from this tenant at this location were $0.3 million, $0.4 million and $0.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. As of November 3, 2006 we sold this property. Penn Traffic also operated in a location occupying 55,000 square feet at a property in which we, through Fund I, hold a 22.2% ownership interest. Penn Traffic rejected the lease at this location on February 20, 2004. Our pro-rata share of rental revenues from the tenant at this location was $0.02 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. On January 14, 2004, KB Toys (“KB”) filed for protection under Chapter 11 Bankruptcy. KB operated in five locations in our wholly-owned portfolio totaling approximately 41,000 square feet. Rental revenues from KB at these locations aggregated $0.3 million, $ 0.3 million and $0.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. KB rejected the lease at three of these locations and continues to operate in two of our wholly-owned locations but has neither assumed nor rejected these two leases. KB also operated in a location occupying 20,000 square feet at a property in which we hold a 22.2% ownership interest. KB rejected the lease at this location during 2004 and our pro-rata share of rental revenues at this location were $0.04 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. We could be adversely affected by poor market conditions where properties are geographically concentrated. Our performance depends on the economic conditions in markets in which our properties are concentrated. We have significant exposure to the New York region, from which we derive 33% of the annual base rents within our wholly-owned portfolio. Our operating results could be adversely affected if market conditions, such as an oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for real estate, in this area become more competitive relative to other geographic areas. Our ability to change our portfolio is limited because real estate investments are illiquid. Equity investments in real estate are relatively illiquid and, therefore, our ability to change our portfolio promptly in response to changed conditions will be limited. Our board of trustees may establish investment criteria or limitations as it deems appropriate, but currently does not limit the number of properties in which we may seek to invest or on the concentration of investments in any one geographic region. We could change our investment, disposition and financing policies without a vote of our shareholders. Market interest rates could have an adverse effect on our share price. One of the factors that may influence the trading price of our Common Shares is the annual dividend rate on our Common Shares as a percentage of its market price. An increase in market interest rates may lead purchasers of our Common Shares to seek a higher annual dividend rate, which could adversely affect the market price of our Common Shares and our ability to raise additional equity in the public markets. 13 Table of Contents We could become highly leveraged, resulting in increased risk of default on our obligations and in an increase in debt service requirements which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, indebtedness in furtherance of our activities. Neither our Declaration of Trust nor any policy statement formally adopted by our board of trustees limits either the total amount of indebtedness or the specified percentage of indebtedness that we may incur. Accordingly, we could become more highly leveraged, resulting in increased risk of default on our obligations and in an increase in debt service requirements which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions. Our loan agreements contain customary representations, covenants and events of default. Certain loan agreements require us to comply with certain affirmative and negative covenants, including the maintenance of certain debt service coverage and leverage ratios. Interest expense on our variable debt as of December 31, 2006 would increase by $0.9 million annually for a 100 basis point increase in interest rates. We may seek additional variable-rate financing if and when pricing and other commercial and financial terms warrant. As such, we would consider hedging against the interest rate risk related to such additional variable-rate debt through interest rate swaps and protection agreements, or other means. We enter into interest-rate hedging transactions, including interest rate swaps and cap agreements, with counterparties. There can be no guarantee that the financial condition of these counterparties will enable them to fulfill their obligations under these agreements. We may not be able to renew current leases and the terms of re-letting (including the cost of concessions to tenants) may be less favorable to us than current lease terms. Upon the expiration of current leases for space located in our properties, we may not be able to re-let all or a portion of that space, or the terms of re-letting (including the cost of concessions to tenants) may be less favorable to us than current lease terms. If we are unable to re-let promptly all or a substantial portion of the space located in our properties or if the rental rates we receive upon re-letting are significantly lower than current rates, our net income and ability to make expected distributions to our shareholders will be adversely affected due to the resulting reduction in rent receipts. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain tenants in any of our properties upon the expiration of their leases. See “Item 2. Properties – Lease Expirations” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information as to the scheduled lease expirations in our portfolio. Possible liability relating to environmental matters. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations, as an owner of real property, we may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances at, on, in or under our property, as well as certain other potential costs relating to hazardous or toxic substances (including government fines and penalties and damages for injuries to persons and adjacent property). These laws may impose liability without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence or disposal of those substances. This liability may be imposed on us in connection with the activities of an operator of, or tenant at, the property. The cost of any required remediation, removal, fines or personal or property damages and our liability therefore could exceed the value of the property and/or our aggregate assets. In addition, the presence of those substances, or the failure to properly dispose of or remove those substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell or rent that property or to borrow using that property as collateral, which, in turn, would reduce our revenues and ability to make distributions. A property can also be adversely affected either through physical contamination or by virtue of an adverse effect upon value attributable to the migration of hazardous or toxic substances, or other contaminants that have or may have emanated from other properties. Although our tenants are primarily responsible for any environmental damages and claims related to the leased premises, in the event of the bankruptcy or inability of any of our tenants to satisfy any obligations with respect to the property leased to that tenant, we may be required to satisfy such obligations. In addition, we may be held directly liable for any such damages or claims irrespective of the provisions of any lease. From time to time, in connection with the conduct of our business, and prior to the acquisition of any property from a third party or as required by our financing sources, we authorize the preparation of Phase I environmental reports and, when necessary, Phase II environmental reports, with respect to our properties. Based upon these environmental reports and our ongoing review of our properties, as of the date of this prospectus supplement, we are not aware of any environmental condition with respect to any of our properties that we believe would be reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on us. There can be no assurance, however, that the environmental reports will reveal all environmental conditions at our properties or that the following will not expose us to material liability in the future: – The discovery of previously unknown environmental conditions; – Changes in law; – Activities of tenants; and – Activities relating to properties in the vicinity of our properties. 14 Table of Contents Changes in laws increasing the potential liability for environmental conditions existing on properties or increasing the restrictions on discharges or other conditions may result in significant unanticipated expenditures or may otherwise adversely affect the operations of our tenants, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Competition may adversely affect our ability to purchase properties and to attract and retain tenants. There are numerous commercial developers, real estate companies, financial institutions and other investors with greater financial resources than we have that compete with us in seeking properties for acquisition and tenants who will lease space in our properties. Our competitors include other REIT’s, financial institutions, insurance companies, pension funds, private companies and individuals. This competition may result in a higher cost for properties that we wish to purchase. In addition, retailers at our properties face increasing competition from outlet malls, discount shopping clubs, internet commerce, direct mail and telemarketing, which could (i) reduce rents payable to us; (ii) reduce our ability to attract and retain tenants at our properties; and (iii) lead to increased vacancy rates at our properties. We have pursued, and may in the future continue to pursue extensive growth opportunities which may result in significant demands on our operational, administrative and financial resources. We have pursued extensive growth opportunities. This expansion has placed significant demands on our operational, administrative and financial resources. The continued growth of our real estate portfolio can be expected to continue to place a significant strain on its resources. Our future performance will depend in part on our ability to successfully attract and retain qualified management personnel to manage the growth and operations of our business and to finance such acquisitions. In addition, acquired properties may fail to operate at expected levels due to the numerous factors that may affect the value of real estate. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient resources to identify and manage acquired properties or otherwise be able to maintain our historic rate of growth. Our inability to carry out our growth strategy could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our earnings growth strategy is based on the acquisition and development of additional properties, including acquisitions through co-investment programs such as joint ventures. In the context of our business plan, “development” generally means an expansion or renovation of an existing property. The consummation of any future acquisitions will be subject to satisfactory completion of our extensive valuation analysis and due diligence review and to the negotiation of definitive documentation. We cannot be sure that we will be able to implement our strategy because we may have difficulty finding new properties, negotiating with new or existing tenants or securing acceptable financing. Acquisitions of additional properties entail the risk that investments will fail to perform in accordance with expectations, including operating and leasing expectations. Redevelopment is subject to numerous risks, including risks of construction delays, cost overruns or force majeure that may increase project costs, new project commencement risks such as the receipt of zoning, occupancy and other required governmental approvals and permits, and the incurrence of development costs in connection with projects that are not pursued to completion. A component of our growth strategy is through private-equity type investments made through our RCP Venture. These include investments in operating retailers. The inability of the retailers to operate profitably would have an adverse impact on income realized from these investments. Our board of trustees may change our investment policy without shareholder approval. Our board of trustees will determine our investment and financing policies, our growth strategy and our debt, capitalization, distribution, acquisition, disposition and operating policies. Our board of trustees may establish investment criteria or limitations as it deems appropriate, but currently does not limit the number of properties in which we may seek to invest or on the concentration of investments in any one geographic region. Although our board of trustees has no present intention to revise or amend our strategies and policies, it may do so at any time without a vote by our shareholders. Accordingly, our shareholders’ control over changes in our strategies and policies is limited to the election of trustees, and changes made by our board of trustees may not serve the interests of all of our shareholders and could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations, including our ability to distribute cash to shareholders or qualify as a REIT. There can be no assurance we have qualified or will remain qualified as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. We believe that we have met the requirements for qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes beginning with our taxable year ended December 31, 1993, and we intend to continue to meet these requirements in the future. However, qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations. No assurance can be given that we have qualified or will remain qualified as a REIT. The Internal Revenue Code provisions and income tax regulations applicable to REIT’s are more complex than those applicable to corporations. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to continue to qualify as a REIT. In addition, no assurance can be given that legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions will not significantly change the requirements for qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. If we do not qualify as a REIT, we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to shareholders in computing our net taxable income. In addition, our income would be subject to tax at the regular corporate rates. We also could be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost. Cash available for distribution to our shareholders would be significantly reduced for each year in which we do not qualify as a REIT. In that event, we would not be required to continue to make distributions. Although we currently intend to continue to qualify as a REIT, it is possible that future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause us, without the consent of the shareholders, to revoke the REIT election or to otherwise take action that would result in disqualification. 15 Table of Contents Distribution requirements imposed by law limit our operating flexibility. To maintain our status as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we are generally required to distribute to our shareholders at least 90% of our taxable income for that calendar year. Our taxable income is determined without regard to any deduction for dividends paid and by excluding net capital gains. To the extent that we satisfy the distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed income. In addition, we will incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which our distributions in any year are less than the sum of (i) 85% of our ordinary income for that year; (ii) 95% of our capital gain net income for that year and; (iii) 100% of our undistributed taxable income from prior years. We intend to continue to make distributions to our shareholders to comply with the distribution requirements of the Internal Revenue Code and to reduce exposure to federal income and nondeductible excise taxes. Differences in timing between the receipt of income and the payment of expenses in determining our income and the effect of required debt amortization payments could require us to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the distribution requirements that are necessary to achieve the tax benefits associated with qualifying as a REIT. Uninsured losses or a loss in excess of insured limits could adversely affect our financial condition. We carry comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage and rent loss insurance on most of our properties, with policy specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties. However, with respect to those properties where the leases do not provide for abatement of rent under any circumstances, we generally do not maintain rent loss insurance. In addition, there are certain types of losses, such as losses resulting from wars, terrorism or acts of God that generally are not insured because they are either uninsurable or not economically insurable. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose capital invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenues from a property, while remaining obligated for any mortgage indebtedness or other financial obligations related to the property. Any loss of these types would adversely affect our financial condition. Limits on ownership of our capital shares. For the Company to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, among other requirements, not more than 50% of the value of our capital shares may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code to include certain entities) during the last half of each taxable year after 1993, and such capital shares must be beneficially owned by 100 or more persons during at least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months or during a proportionate part of a shorter taxable year (in each case, other than the first such year). Our Declaration of Trust includes certain restrictions regarding transfers of our capital shares and ownership limits that are intended to assist us in satisfying these limitations. These restrictions and limits may not be adequate in all cases, however, to prevent the transfer of our capital shares in violation of the ownership limitations. The ownership limit discussed above may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing someone from taking control of us. Actual or constructive ownership of our capital shares in excess of the share ownership limits contained in our Declaration of Trust would cause the violative transfer or ownership to be null and void from the beginning and subject to purchase by us at a price equal to the lesser of (i) the price stipulated in the challenged transaction; and (ii) the fair market value of such shares (determined in accordance with the rules set forth in our declaration of trust). As a result, if a violative transfer were made, the recipient of the shares would not acquire any economic or voting rights attributable to the transferred shares. Additionally, the constructive ownership rules for these limits are complex and groups of related individuals or entities may be deemed a single owner and consequently in violation of the share ownership limits. Adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes could have an adverse effect on us. There are a number of issues associated with an investment in a REIT that are related to the federal income tax laws, including, but not limited to, the consequences of failing to continue to qualify as a REIT. At any time, the federal income tax laws governing REIT’s or the administrative interpretations of those laws may be amended. Any of those new laws or interpretations may take effect retroactively and could adversely affect us or our shareholders. Recently enacted legislation reduces tax rates applicable to certain corporate dividends paid to most domestic noncorporate shareholders. REIT dividends generally are not eligible for reduced rates because a REIT’s income generally is not subject to corporate level tax. As a result, investment in non-REIT corporations may be viewed as relatively more attractive than investment in REIT’s by domestic noncorporate investors. This could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s shares. Concentration of ownership by certain investors. Six shareholders own 5% or more individually, and 42.7% in the aggregate, of our Common Shares. A significant concentration of ownership may allow an investor to exert a greater influence over our management and affairs and may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us. Restrictions on a potential change of control. Our Board of Trustees is authorized by our Declaration of Trust to establish and issue one or more series of preferred shares without shareholder approval. We have not established any series of preferred shares. However, the establishment and issuance of a series of preferred shares could make more difficult a change of control of us that could be in the best interest of the shareholders. 16 Table of Contents In addition, we have entered into an employment agreement with our Chief Executive Officer and severance agreements are in place with our senior vice presidents which provide that, upon the occurrence of a change in control of us and either the termination of their employment without cause (as defined) or their resignation for good reason (as defined), those executive officers would be entitled to certain termination or severance payments made by us (which may include a lump sum payment equal to defined percentages of annual salary and prior years’ average bonuses, paid in accordance with the terms and conditions of the respective agreement), which could deter a change of control of us that could be in our best interest. The loss of a key executive officer could have an adverse effect on us. Our success depends on the contribution of key management members. The loss of the services of Kenneth F. Bernstein, President and Chief Executive Officer, or other key executive-level employees could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Although we have entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Kenneth F. Bernstein, the loss of his services could have an adverse effect on our operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 