Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business has a limited operating history, which makes our future operating results difficult to predict. While Predecessor historically operated our casino gaming properties, we, as successor to Predecessor, have a limited operating history upon which you can base an evaluation of our business and prospects. To address these risks and uncertainties, we must do the following, among other things: ·successfully execute our business strategy; ·respond to competitive developments; and ·attract, integrate, retain and motivate qualified personnel. There can be no assurance that we will operate profitably or that we will have adequate working capital to meet our obligations as they become due. We cannot be certain that our business strategy will be successful, that we will successfully address the risks that face our business or that we will be able to access the capital markets if the need arises. In the event that we do not successfully address these risks, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may be unable to achieve projected financial results as contained in the Plan which could prevent us from servicing our debt obligations. We may be unable to meet our projected financial results or achieve projected revenues and cash flows that we have assumed in projecting future business prospects. While the financial projections in the Plan represent management's view based on then-known facts and assumptions about our future operations, there is no guarantee that the financial projections will be realized. To the extent we do not meet our projected financial results or do not achieve projected revenues and cash flows, we may lack sufficient liquidity to continue operating as planned and may be unable to service our debt obligations as they come due, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, our failure to meet projected financial results or achieve projected revenues and cash flows could lead to cash flow and working capital constraints, which may require us to seek additional working capital. We may not be able to obtain such working capital when it is required. Further, even if we were able to obtain additional working capital, it may only be available on unfavorable terms. For example, we may be required to incur additional debt, the interest costs of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If any such required capital is obtained in the form of equity, the equity interests of the holders of the then-outstanding common stock could be diluted. 13 The bankruptcy filing has had a negative impact on Predecessor's image, which may negatively impact our business going forward. As a result of the Chapter 11 Cases, Predecessor was the subject of negative publicity which has had an impact on the image of its assets. This negative publicity may have an effect on the terms under which some customers and suppliers are willing to do business with us and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may face potential successor liability for liabilities of Predecessor not provided for in the Plan. As the successor to Predecessor, we may be subject to certain liabilities of Predecessor not provided for in the Plan. Such liabilities may arise in a number of circumstances, including those where: ·a creditor of Predecessor did not receive proper notice of the pendency of the bankruptcy case relating to the Plan or the deadline for filing claims therein; ·the injury giving rise to, or source of, a creditor's claim did not manifest itself in time for the creditor to file the creditor's claim; ·a creditor did not timely file the creditor's claim in such bankruptcy case due to excusable neglect; ·we are liable for Predecessor's tax liabilities under a federal and/or state theory of successor liability; or ·the order of confirmation for the Plan was procured by fraud. Although we have no reason to believe that we will become subject to liabilities of Predecessor that are not provided for in the Plan, should we become subject to such liabilities, it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The current disruption in the credit markets and its effects on the global and domestic economies could adversely affect our business. Recent substantial volatility in the global capital markets and widely-documented commercial credit market disruptions has a significant negative impact on financial markets, as well as the global and domestic economies. The effects of these disruptions are widespread and difficult to quantify, and it is impossible to predict when the global financial markets will improve. There is now general consensus among economists that the economies of the U.S. and much of the rest of the world were in a deep recession from late 2007 through 2009 and that the effects of this recession continue to be felt. As a result, we have and are continuing to experience reduced demand for our hotel rooms, gaming products and other services. Continued weakness in demand and in consumer and commercial spending may drive us and our competitors to continue to reduce pricing, particularly in room rates, which would have a negative impact on our gross profit. These adverse effects would likely be exacerbated if current global economic conditions persist or worsen resulting in wide-ranging, adverse and prolonged effects on general business conditions and our operations, financial results and liquidity. We face intense competition in the two markets where we operate. In Las Vegas, competition has continued to increase as a result of factors such as the ongoing economic downturn, hotel room inventory increases and gaming floor expansions in addition to convention, trade show and meeting space additions. Our success depends on the ability of Riviera Las Vegas to attract customers and realize corresponding revenues. Riviera Las Vegas competes with casino resort properties and hotels in the Las Vegas area. Currently, there are approximately 30 major gaming properties located on or near the Las Vegas Strip, approximately ten additional major gaming properties in the downtown area and many additional gaming properties located in other areas of Las Vegas. Riviera Las Vegas competes with these properties based on overall atmosphere, range of amenities, level of service, price, location, entertainment offered, shopping and restaurant facilities, theme and size. Companies that own and operate multiple hotel/casino facilities operate many of the gaming properties in Las Vegas. These companies have greater name recognition and financial and marketing resources than we do and often market to the same target demographic groups as we do. 14 In Black Hawk/Central City, the primary competitive differentiators are location, availability and convenience of parking, number of gaming devices, promotional incentives, hotel rooms, types and pricing of non-gaming amenities, name recognition and overall atmosphere. Our main competitors are the larger gaming facilities especially those with considerable on-site or nearby parking facilities, hotel rooms and established reputations in the local market. Two of the most successful casinos in Colorado are considerably larger than Riviera Black Hawk and are located across the street from our casino. Three other casinos in our market offer hotel accommodations as well as gaming facilities and thereby have some competitive advantages over us. There have also been efforts in Colorado by Native American tribes to acquire land to use for construction of a casino that would operate without the limitations imposed on the Colorado casino industry. Additionally, there have been efforts by other parties to amend the Colorado Constitution to permit the installation of slot machines at five racetracks. To date, the Native American casino initiatives in Colorado have either been rejected or have failed to win support from government authorities. Moreover, in 2003, a race track/slot machine initiative was rejected by Colorado voters. Our Colorado operations could be adversely affected if either one of these initiatives gain the necessary approvals. In addition to the competition that we face from our competitors in Las Vegas and Colorado, we face increasing competition from other companies in the gaming industry generally, such as land-based casinos, dockside casinos, riverboat casinos, casinos located on Native American land and other forms of legalized gambling. We risk losing market share if other casinos operate more successfully or are enhanced or expanded or are established in or around the locations where we conduct business. The number of casinos on Native American lands has increased since enactment of the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act of 1988. In 2000, California voters approved an amendment to the California Constitution that allows Las Vegas-style gaming on Native American lands in that state. Additionally, California voters recently passed Propositions 94, 95, 96 and 97 which allow two tribes near San Diego to each increase their slot machine volume from 2,000 slot machines to 7,500 slot machines and two tribes near Palm Springs to each increase their slot machine volume from 2,000 slot machines to 5,000 slot machines. While it is difficult to determine the impact of these new gaming jurisdictions, the continued expansion of gaming in California poses a more serious threat to the continued growth of Las Vegas. We also compete, to some extent, with other forms of gaming on both a local and national level, including state sponsored lotteries, Internet gaming, on- and off-track wagering and card parlors. In particular, the legalization of gaming or the expansion of legalized gaming in or near any geographic area from which we attract or expect to attract a significant number of our customers could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Increased competition may also require us to make substantial capital expenditures to maintain or enhance the competitive positions of our two properties. Because we are highly leveraged and have considerable constraints on our available cash, we might not have sufficient financing to make such expenditures. If we are unable to make such expenditures, our competitive position, results of operations and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. 15 We operate in only the Las Vegas and Black Hawk markets, which exposes us to greater risks than gaming companies with a presence in more markets. We do not have material assets or operations other than Riviera Las Vegas and Riviera Black Hawk. Therefore, we are entirely dependent upon these two properties for our cash flow. This makes us more sensitive to events and conditions affecting the markets in which we operate, including the following: ·weak macroeconomic conditions; ·weak local economic conditions; ·increased competitive conditions; ·inaccessibility due to weather conditions, road construction or closure of primary access routes; ·decline in air passenger traffic due to higher ticket costs or fears concerning air travel; ·a decline in automobile traffic due to higher gasoline prices; ·changes in state and local laws and regulations, including those affecting gaming; ·an increase in the cost of electrical power for Riviera Las Vegas as a result of, among other things, power shortages in California or other western states with which Nevada shares a single regional power grid; ·a decline in the number of visitors to Las Vegas or the number of Colorado residents who visit Black Hawk; ·a decline in hotel room rates in Las Vegas due to increased hotel room supply without offsetting hotel room demand; and ·a potential increase in the gaming tax rate in any jurisdiction in which we operate. Our operations are largely dependent on the skill and experience of our management and key personnel. The loss of management and other key personnel or our inability to hire additional personnel could significantly harm our business. Our ability to operate successfully is dependent, in part, upon the continued services of certain of our executive personnel. The loss of the services of any member of our management team or our inability to attract or retain key employees in the future could have a material adverse effect on us. Regulations issued by gaming or other governmental authorities could adversely affect our operations. As owners and operators of gaming facilities, we are subject to extensive governmental regulation. The ownership, management and operation of gaming facilities are subject to extensive laws, regulations and ordinances, which are administered by various federal, state and local government entities and agencies. The gaming authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate have broad authority and discretion to require us and our officers, directors, managers, employees and certain security holders to obtain various licenses, registrations, permits, findings of suitability or other approvals. To enforce applicable gaming regulations, gaming authorities may, among other things, limit, suspend or revoke the licenses of any gaming entity or individual, and may levy fines against us or individuals or may cause us to forfeit our assets for violations of gaming laws or regulations. Any of these actions would have a material adverse effect on us. 16 Nevada, and Colorado (for so long as we own the Riviera Black Hawk), state and local government authorities require us to obtain gaming licenses and require our officers and key employees to demonstrate suitability to be involved in gaming operations. Those authorities may limit, condition, suspend or revoke a license for any cause they deem reasonable. Also, if we violate any gaming laws or regulations, those authorities may levy substantial fines against us or the individuals involved in the violations. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. We cannot assure you that any new licenses, registrations, findings of suitability, permits and approvals will be granted or that our existing ones will be renewed when they expire. Any failure to renew or maintain our licenses or receive new licenses when necessary would have a material adverse effect on us. We are subject to a variety of other laws, rules and regulations, including those pertaining to zoning, environmental matters, construction, land use and the serving of alcoholic beverages. We also pay substantial taxes and fees in connection with our operations as a gaming company, which taxes and fees are subject to increases or other changes at any time. Any changes to these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Our compliance costs associated with these laws, regulations and licenses are significant. A change in the laws, regulations and licenses applicable to our business or a violation of any of them could require us to make material expenditures or could otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. In Black Hawk and in other jurisdictions from which we attract customers, gaming is subject to local referendum. If the results of a referendum held in a jurisdiction in which we operate were to restrict gaming in whole or in part or if the results of a referendum in a nearby non-gaming jurisdiction were to permit gaming, especially video lottery terminals or slot machines in racetracks in and around the Denver area, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. We are subject to potential exposure to environmental liabilities. Generally, we are subject to various federal, state and local governmental laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge, emission and disposal of hazardous materials. Failure to comply could result in the imposition of severe penalties or restrictions on our operations by governmental agencies or courts. In 2002, the Las Vegas property experienced a diesel leak. Our continuing efforts to monitor and remediate the effects of this leak have been affected by construction at neighboring projects. We are continuing to monitor this matter. In order to come to final resolution regarding this issue with the Nevada Department of Environmental Protection, we may be required to take remediation steps including the excavation of the affected area. We are unable to estimate the cost of remediation at the present time. Riviera Black Hawk is located within a 400-square mile area that in 1983 was designated as the Clear Creek Central/City National Priorities List Site Study Area under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended. Although Riviera Black Hawk is not within any of the specific areas currently identified for investigation or remediation under that statute, environmental problems may subsequently be discovered, including in connection with any future construction on our property. Furthermore, governmental authorities could broaden their investigations and identify areas of concern within the site and as a result, we could be identified as a “potentially responsible party” and any related liability could have a material adverse effect on us. We do not have insurance to cover environmental liabilities, if we incur any. 17 Energy price increases may adversely affect our costs of operations and our revenues. Our casino properties use significant amounts of energy, natural gas and other forms of energy. Substantial increases in the cost of electricity in the United States could have a negative effect on our operating results. The extent of the impact is subject to the magnitude and duration of energy price increases, but this impact could be material. In addition, energy price increases in cities that constitute a significant source of customers for our properties could result in a decline in disposable income of potential customers and a corresponding decrease in visitation to our properties which could negatively impact our revenues. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects are dependent on many factors that are beyond our control. The economic health of our business is generally affected by a number of factors that are beyond our control, including: ·general economic conditions, including the impact of a worsening macroeconomic environment; ·economic conditions specific to our primary markets; ·general condition of the banking and credit markets; ·decline in tourism and travel due to concerns about homeland security, terrorism or other destabilizing events; ·decline in the Las Vegas convention business; ·the ability to renegotiate union contracts in Las Vegas; ·intense competitive conditions in the gaming industry including the possibility of the approval of video lottery terminals and/or slot machines at racetracks in and around the Denver area and the effect such conditions may have on the pricing of our games and products; ·changes in the regulatory regimes affecting our business, including changes to applicable gaming, employment, environmental or tax regulations; ·inaccessibility to our property due to construction on adjoining or nearby properties, streets or walkways; ·substantial increases in the cost of electricity, natural gas and other forms of energy; ·local conditions in key gaming markets, including seasonal and weather-related factors; ·increased transportation costs; ·levels of disposable income of casino customers; 18 ·continued increases in health care costs; ·increases in gaming taxes or fees; ·increases in Clark County, Nevada facilities inspection fees and resulting remedial actions; ·the relative popularity of entertainment alternatives to casino gaming that compete for the leisure dollar; and ·an outbreak or suspicion of an outbreak of an infectious communicable disease. Any of these factors could negatively impact our property or the casino industry generally, and as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may incur losses that are not adequately covered by insurance. Insurance may not be available in the future or adequate to cover all loss or damage to which our business or our assets might be subjected. Since the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, insurance coverage has diminished for certain types of damages or occurrences and is no longer available at reasonable commercial rates. The lack of adequate insurance for certain types or levels of risk could expose us to significant losses if a catastrophe or lawsuit occurs for which we do not have insurance coverage. Any losses we incur that are not adequately covered by insurance may decrease our future operating income, require us to pay the costs of replacing or repairing destroyed property and reduce the funds available for payment of our debt obligations. We are subject to litigation, which, if adversely determined, could cause us to incur substantial losses. From time to time during the normal course of operating our business, we are subject to various litigation claims and other legal disputes. Some of the litigation claims may not be covered under our insurance policies or our insurance carriers may seek to deny coverage. As a result, we might be required to incur significant legal fees, which may have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, because we cannot predict the outcome of any legal action, it is possible that as a result of litigation, we will be subject to adverse judgments or settlements that could significantly reduce our results from operations. Homeland security, terrorism and war concerns, as well as other factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, may harm our operating results. The strength and profitability of our business depend on consumer demand for hotel/casino resorts, gaming in general and the types of amenities we offer. Changes in consumer preferences or discretionary consumer spending could harm our business. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, ongoing war activities and concerns about terrorism and homeland security have had a negative impact on travel and leisure expenditures, including lodging, gaming (in some jurisdictions) and tourism. We cannot predict the extent to which those events may continue to affect us, directly or indirectly, in the future. An extended period of reduced discretionary spending or disruptions or declines in travel could significantly harm our operations. In addition to concerns about war, homeland security and terrorism, other factors affecting discretionary consumer spending include; consumers’ confidence in general or regional economic conditions, consumers’ disposable income, and consumers’ fears of a continued or worsening economic recession or an economic depression. Negative changes in factors affecting discretionary spending could reduce customer demand for the products and services we offer, thus imposing practical limits on our pricing and harming our operations. 19 A significant portion of our labor force is covered by collective bargaining agreements, and a dispute with covered employees or new labor agreements may lower our revenues and increase our costs. Approximately 785 of our 1,240 employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. A prolonged dispute with the covered employees could have an adverse impact on our operations. In addition, wage and/or benefit increases resulting from new labor agreements may be significant and could also have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Our revenues may be negatively impacted by volatility in our hold percentage. Casino revenue is recorded as the difference between gaming wins and losses or net win from gaming activities. Net win is impacted by variations in the hold percentage (the ratio of net win to total amount wagered), or actual outcome, on our slot machines, table games, race and sports betting, and all other games we provide to our customers. We use the hold percentage as an indicator of a game’s performance against its expected outcome. Although each game generally performs within a defined statistical range of outcomes, actual outcomes may vary for any given period. The hold percentage and actual outcome on our games can be impacted by the level of a customer’s skill in a given game, errors made by our employees, the number of games played, faults within the computer programs that operate our slot machines and the random nature of slot machine payouts. If our games perform below their expected range of outcomes, our cash flow will suffer. Our hotels and casinos may need to increase capital expenditures to compete effectively but we may not have sufficient funds to do so. Capital expenditures, such as room refurbishments, amenity upgrades and new gaming equipment may be necessary from time to time to preserve the competitiveness of our hotels and casinos. The gaming industry market is very competitive and is expected to become more competitive in the future. If cash from operations is insufficient to provide for needed levels of capital expenditures and we are unable to raise funds for such purposes elsewhere, we may be unable to make necessary improvements and our facilities may be less attractive to our visitors than that of our competitors’, causing us to lose our competitive position. We are dependent upon technology services and electrical power to operate our business, and if we experience damage or service interruptions, we may have to cease some or all of our operations, resulting in a decrease in revenues. Our gaming operations rely heavily on technology services and an uninterrupted supply of electrical power. Our security system and all of our slot machines are controlled by computers and reliant on electrical power to operate. Without electrical power or a failure of the technology services needed to run the computers, we may be unable to run all or parts of gaming operations. Any unscheduled interruption in our technology services or interruption in the supply of electrical power is likely to result in an immediate, and possibly substantial, loss of revenues due to a shutdown of our gaming operations. Although our systems have been designed based on industry-standard architectures to reduce downtime in the event of outages or catastrophic occurrences, they remain vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks and similar events. 20 Our success depends on the value of our Riviera brand. We depend on the name recognition of our Riviera brand in our marketing efforts. Maintaining and building recognition of our brand are important to expanding our customer base. If the value of our brand were adversely affected, our ability to attract customers would be negatively impacted and our growth could be impaired. Our failure to protect our brands may undermine our competitive position and litigation to protect our brands or defend against third-party allegations of infringement may be costly. We believe that it is important for our business to achieve brand recognition. We rely primarily on tradenames to achieve brand recognition. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our trademarks, trade names, and other intellectual property rights, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or operating results. In addition, policing unauthorized use of our trademarks, trade names, and other intellectual property can be difficult and expensive. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. We cannot give any assurance that the outcome of such potential litigation will be in our favor. Such litigation may be costly and may divert management attention as well as expend our other resources away from our business. An adverse determination in any such litigation will impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects, and reputation. Climate change, climate change regulations and greenhouse effects may adversely impact our operations and markets. There is a growing political and scientific consensus that emission of greenhouse gases, also referred to herein as “GHGs” continue to alter the composition of the global atmosphere in ways that are affecting and are expected to continue affecting the global climate. Climate change, including the impact of global warming, creates physical and financial risk. Physical risks from climate change include an increase in sea level and changes in weather conditions, such as an increase in changes in precipitation and extreme weather events. Climate change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. We have described the risks to us associated with extreme weather events in the risk factors above. We may become subject to legislation and regulation regarding climate change, and compliance with any new rules could be difficult and costly. Concerned parties, such as legislators and regulators, stockholders and non-governmental organizations, as well as companies in many business sectors, are considering ways to reduce GHG emissions. Many states have announced or adopted programs to stabilize and reduce GHG emissions, and in the past, federal legislation has been proposed in Congress. If such legislation is enacted, we could incur increased energy, environmental and other costs and capital expenditures to comply with the limitations. Unless and until legislation is enacted and its terms are known, we cannot reasonably or reliably estimate its impact on our financial condition, operating performance or ability to compete. Further, regulation of GHG emissions may limit our customers' ability to travel to our properties as a result of increased fuel costs or restrictions on transportation. We could face increased costs related to defending and resolving legal claims and other litigation related to cyber security issues. Our reputation and business may be harmed from cyber security risk and we may be subject to legal claims if there is loss, disclosure or misappropriation of or access to our customers' or our business partners' or our own information or other breaches of our information security. 21 We make extensive use of online services and centralized data processing, including through third party service providers. The secure maintenance and transmission of customer information is a critical element of our operations. Our information technology and other systems that maintain and transmit customer information, or those of service providers, business partners, or employee information may be compromised by a malicious third party penetration of our network security, or that of a third party service provider or business partner, or impacted by advertent or inadvertent actions or inactions by our employees, or those of a third party service provider or business partner. As a result, our customers' information may be lost, disclosed, accessed or taken without our customers' consent. In addition, we and our third party service providers and other business partners process and maintain proprietary business information and data related to our business-to-business customers, suppliers and other business partners. Our information technology and other systems that maintain and transmit this information, or those of service providers or business partners, may also be compromised by a malicious third party penetration of our network security or that of a third party service provider or business partner, or impacted by advertent or inadvertent actions or inactions by our employees or those of a third party service provider or business partner. As a result, our business information, customer, supplier, and other business partner data may be lost, disclosed, accessed or taken without their consent. Any such loss, disclosure or misappropriation of, or access to, customers' or business partners' information or other breach of our information security can result in legal claims or legal proceedings, including regulatory investigations and actions, may have a serious impact on our reputation and may adversely affect our businesses, operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, the loss, disclosure or misappropriation of our business information may adversely affect our businesses, operating results and financial condition. Our present indebtedness and projected future borrowings could adversely affect our financial health; future cash flows may not be sufficient to meet our obligations, and we may have difficulty obtaining additional financing; and we may experience adverse effects of interest rate fluctuations. As of December 31, 2011, we had indebtedness of approximately $72.4 million. We have available to us a revolving line of credit of up to $10 million, which has not been drawn as of March 30, 2012. There can be no assurance in the future whether we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or through asset sales to meet our long-term debt service obligations. Our present indebtedness and projected future borrowings could have important adverse consequences to us, such as: ·making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our existing indebtedness; ·limiting our ability to obtain additional financing without restructuring the covenants in our existing indebtedness to permit the incurrence of such financing; ·requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow to be used for payments on the debt and related interest, thereby reducing our ability to use cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate requirements; ·limiting our ability to respond to changing business, industry and economic conditions and to withstand competitive pressures, which may affect our financial condition; ·causing us to incur higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates on our borrowings that have variable interest rates or in the event of refinancing existing debt at higher interest rates; 22 ·limiting our ability to make investments, dispose of assets, pay cash dividends or repurchase stock; ·increasing our vulnerability to downturns in our business, our industry or the general economy and restricting us from making improvements or acquisitions or exploring business opportunities; ·placing us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors with less debt or greater resources; and ·subjecting us to financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, the non-compliance with which could result in an event of default. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that our anticipated revenue growth will be realized, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our available credit in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. In addition, if we consummate significant acquisitions in the future, our cash requirements and our debt service requirements may increase significantly. If we fail to generate sufficient cash flow from future operations to meet our debt service obligations, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our debt on attractive terms, commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our future operating performance and our ability to service, extend or refinance our indebtedness will be subject to future economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our indebtedness imposes restrictive covenants on us. Our indebtedness imposes various customary covenants on us and our subsidiaries. The restrictions that are imposed under these debt instruments include, among other obligations, limitations on our and our subsidiaries’ ability to: ·sell assets; ·change our business, management or ownership; ·engage in any merger, acquisition or consolidation transactions; ·incur additional debt; ·make dividends or distributions and repurchase stock; ·make investments; ·enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and ·make payments on subordinated obligations. Our ability to comply with the covenants imposed by the terms of our indebtedness may be affected by general economic conditions, industry conditions, and other events beyond our control. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with these covenants. Our failure to comply with such covenants, including failure to comply as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition. 23 If there were an event of default under our indebtedness, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable, subject to applicable grace periods. This could trigger cross-defaults under our other debt instruments. We cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default, or that we would be able to repay, refinance or restructure the payments on any of those debt instruments. We have never paid dividends do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future and cannot pay dividends to any unsuitable person. We have never paid dividends on our stock, nor do we anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain our cash flow or earnings, if any, to use in our ongoing operations. Also, due to gaming law considerations, our Articles of Incorporation prohibit the payment of dividends to anyone who is deemed an “unsuitable person” or is an affiliate of an “unsuitable person.” There is currently no trading market for our capital stock and the transfer of none may develop. There is currently no public market for our capital stock. Further, applicable gaming law requirements severely restrict the ability of our stockholders to transfer their capital stock. If an active trading market does not develop, owners of our capital stock may have difficulty selling any of our common stock. Ownership could be diluted by future issuances of our stock, options, warrants or other securities. Ownership of our securities may be diluted by future issuances of capital stock or the exercise of outstanding or to be issued options, warrants or convertible notes to purchase capital stock. In particular, we may sell securities in the future in order to finance operations, expansions, or particular projects or expenditures. Certain owners of our stock may have to file an application with, and be investigated by, the Nevada and/or Colorado gaming authorities. If that owner is deemed “unsuitable,” that owner could lose most of the attributes of being a stockholder and it could have a detrimental effect on us. As defined in Nevada gaming regulations, any person who acquires more than 5% of a Registered Corporation’s voting securities must report the acquisition to the Nevada Commission. Nevada gaming regulations also require that beneficial owners of more than 10% of our voting securities apply to the Nevada Commission for a finding of suitability within 30 days after the Chairman of the Nevada Board mails the written notice requiring such filing. However, an “institutional investor,” as defined in the Nevada gaming regulations, which acquires more than 10%, but not more than 11%, of our voting securities as a result of a stock repurchase by us may not be required to file such an application. Further, an institutional investor that acquires more than 10%, but not more than 25%, of our voting securities may apply to the Nevada Commission for a waiver of such finding of suitability if such institutional investor holds our voting securities for investment purposes only. An institutional investor that has obtained a waiver may hold more than 25%, but not more than 29%, of our voting securities and maintain its waiver where the additional ownership results from a stock repurchase by us. However, any beneficial owner of our voting securities, regardless of the number of shares owned, may be required, at the discretion of the Nevada Commission, to apply for a finding of suitability. A finding of suitability is comparable to licensing, and the applicant must pay all costs of investigation incurred by the Nevada gaming authorities in conducting the investigation. 24 Any such person who fails to apply for a finding of suitability within 30 days after being ordered to do so by the Nevada Commission may be found to be unsuitable. Any person who is found by the Nevada Commission to be unsuitable to be a beneficial owner of our voting securities but continues such beneficial ownership beyond the period of time prescribed by the Nevada Commission may be guilty of a criminal offense. We will be subject to disciplinary action if, after we receive notice that a person is unsuitable to be a beneficial owner of our voting securities or to have any other relationship with us, we: ·pay that person any dividend or interest on our voting securities; ·allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any voting right conferred through our voting securities held by that person; ·pay that person any remuneration in any form for services rendered or otherwise; or ·fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require that person to relinquish our voting securities for cash at fair market value. Colorado requires that persons owning, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of our stock be certified as suitable for licensure. Persons found unsuitable by the Colorado Commission may be required immediately to terminate any direct or indirect beneficial interest in our voting securities. A finding of unsuitability with respect to any beneficial owner may also jeopardize our license. The annual renewal of our license may be conditioned upon the termination of any beneficial interest in our voting securities by unsuitable persons. Forward-Looking Statements Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K we make “forward-looking statements,” as that term is defined in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. Forward-looking statements include the words “may,” “would,” “could,” “likely,” “estimate,” “intend,” “plan,” “continue,” “believe,” “expect,” “project” or “anticipate” and similar words and our discussions about our ongoing or future plans, objectives or expectations and our liquidity projections. We do not guarantee that any of the transactions or events described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K will happen as described or that any positive trends referred to in this Form Annual Report on 10-K will continue. These forward-looking statements generally relate to our plans, objectives and expectations for future operations and results and are based upon what we consider to be reasonable estimates. Although we believe that our forward-looking statements are reasonable at the present time, we may not achieve or we may modify our plans, objectives and expectations. You should read this Annual Report on Form 10-K thoroughly and with the understanding that actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. We do not plan to update forward-looking statements even though our situation or plans may change in the future, unless applicable law requires us to do so. Specific factors that might cause our actual results to differ from our plans, objectives or expectations, might cause us to modify our plans or objectives, or might affect our ability to meet our expectations include, but are not limited to: ·our limited operating history; ·our inability to achieve projected financial results and to service our debt obligations; ·negative effects of the Chapter 11 Cases on our image; 25 ·risks associated with successor liability and liabilities of Predecessor not provided for in the Plan; ·the effects of disruption in the credit markets and worsening global and national economic conditions; ·competition in the gaming industry, including the availability and success of alternative gaming venues, and other entertainment attractions, and, specifically, the approval of an initiative that would allow slot machines in Colorado race tracks; ·risks related to geographic market concentration; ·loss of management and key personnel; ·changes or developments in laws, regulations or taxes in the gaming industry, specifically in Nevada where initiatives have been proposed to raise the gaming tax; ·risks related to environmental liabilities; ·increasing energy prices; ·adverse effects of factors that are beyond our control; ·uninsured losses or losses that are not adequately covered by insurance; ·costs and liabilities associated with litigation; ·the consequences of concerns associated with wars, terrorism and homeland security; ·labor disputes and work stoppages; ·volatility in our hold percentage; ·the availability of additional capital to support capital improvements and development; ·the loss on technological services and electrical power; ·the loss in value of the Riviera brand; ·our inability to protect our brands; ·adverse effects from climate change, climate change regulations and greenhouse gas effects; ·costs associated with legal claims and litigation related to the alleged effect of our operations on climate change; ·adverse consequences from data breaches and other cyber security related risks; ·the availability and adequacy of our cash flow to meet our capital requirements, including payment of amounts due under our credit agreements, and our inability to raise additional capital if needed; 26 ·adverse consequences of interest rate fluctuations; and ·restrictions imposed by the terms of our indebtedness and our ability to meet the affirmative and negative covenants set forth in our credit agreements. All future written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. In light of these and other risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events discussed in this report might not occur. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 