Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe following discussion of “risk factors” identifies the most significant risks that our business faces. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. There may be additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial. These risks should be read in conjunction with the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.We are subject to risks arising from uncertainty in worldwide economic conditions. Overall demand for our products and our profitability may be adversely affected by changes in global economic conditions, including inflationary or deflationary pressures; interest rates; access to and functioning of capital markets; the impact of sovereign debt defaults by certain European countries; consumer and business spending rates; and higher commodity, raw material and fuel costs. There currently is uncertainty regarding global economic conditions, which could lead to reduced demand for our products, reduced profitability, and increased payment delays or defaults. We are limited in our ability to reduce costs to offset the results of a prolonged or severe economic downturn in light of certain fixed costs associated with our operations. Deterioration in global economic conditions also may impact the valuation of certain long-lived or intangible assets that are subject to impairment testing, potentially resulting in impairment charges that may be material to our financial condition or results of operations. As of December 31, 2011, we have $544.5 million of goodwill and $433.3 million of intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet. We perform impairment tests of our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets annually and more often if indicators of impairment exist. Extended business interruption at our key facilities could have an adverse impact on operating results. Our results of operations are dependent in large part upon our ability to produce and deliver products promptly upon receipt of orders. Our facilities in Finland, Germany, the United States and the GTL smelter in the DRC are critical to our business, and any damage to or other conditions significantly interfering with the operation of our facilities, such as an interruption of our supply lines, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are at risk from fluctuations in the price and uncertainties in the supply of cobalt, rare earth materials and other raw materials. Unrefined cobalt is the principal raw material we use in manufacturing Advanced Materials products, and nickel, cobalt and certain rare earth materials, primarily dysprosium and neodymium, are the primary raw materials used by Magnetic Technologies. Fluctuations in the price of cobalt, rare earth materials and other raw materials have been significant in the past and we believe price fluctuations are likely to occur in the future. Our ability to pass increases in raw material costs through to our customers by increasing the selling prices of our products is an important factor in our business. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain an appropriate differential at all times. If raw material costs increase, and if we are unable to pass along, or are delayed in passing along, those increases to our customers, we will experience reduced profitability. In addition, we may be required under U.S. GAAP accounting rules to write down the carrying value of our inventory when cobalt, rare earth and other raw material prices decrease. Decreases in the market price of raw materials or other factors can result in declines in the selling prices of our finished products, which can result in the Company's inventory carrying value being written down to a lower market value, resulting in a charge against inventory. There are a limited number of supply sources for unrefined cobalt, primarily the DRC, Finland and Russia. Rare earth materials are available from a limited number of suppliers, primarily in China. Political and civil instability and unexpected adverse changes in laws or regulatory requirements, including with respect to export duties, quotas or embargoes, may affect the market price and availability of raw materials, including cobalt and rare earth materials, particularly from the DRC and China, respectively. If a substantial interruption should occur in the supply of cobalt or rare earth materials, we may not be able to obtain other sources of supply in a timely fashion, at a reasonable price or as would be necessary to satisfy our requirements. A substantial increase in the price or an interruption in supply of cobalt or rare earth materials may cause our customers to look for substitute materials or processes which could lead to reduced demand for our 5Table of Contentsproducts. We intend to continue to seek additional acquisitions, but we may not be able to identify or complete transactions, which could adversely affect our strategy. Our strategy anticipates growth through future acquisitions; however, our ability to identify and consummate any future acquisitions, on terms that are favorable to us, may be limited by the number of attractive acquisition targets, internal demands on our resources and our ability to obtain financing. Our success in integrating newly-acquired businesses will depend upon our ability to retain key personnel to avoid diversion of management's attention from operational matters. Integration of acquired operations may take longer, or be more costly or disruptive to our business, than originally anticipated, and it is also possible that expected synergies from future acquisitions may not materialize. We also may incur costs and divert management attention with regard to potential acquisitions that are never consummated. Acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional debt, costs and contingent liabilities. There may be liabilities of the acquired companies that we fail to properly determine during the due diligence investigation and for which we, as a successor owner, may be responsible. Indemnities and warranties obtained from the seller may not fully cover the liabilities due to limitations in scope, amount, duration, financial limitations of the indemnitor or warrantor or other reasons. We are at risk as a result of current circumstances and developments regarding the DRC. A substantial amount of our supply of cobalt is sourced from the DRC, a nation that has historically experienced outbreaks of political instability, changes in national and local leadership and financial crises. The global economic and financial market crisis along with volatility in metal prices may heighten the risk of changes in the national and local policy towards investors, which, in turn, could result in additional risks to our joint venture GTL. GTL has experienced an increase in claims by DRC national and local government agencies for additional taxes and customs duties and we cannot predict whether GTL will receive additional claims in the future. Private equity groups or hedge funds have purchased distressed debt of the DRC and have taken legal actions to attempt to collect this debt from the DRC or entities historically affiliated with the DRC, such as Gécamines, which is one of our joint venture partners in GTL. If successful, these efforts and any similar efforts in the future could further damage the financial condition and undermine the stability of the DRC or affiliated entities and potentially threaten our supply of unrefined cobalt. The restrictive covenants in our Senior Secured Credit Facility may affect our ability to operate our business successfully. The terms of our Senior Secured Credit Facility contain various provisions that limit our ability to, among other things: (i) incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; (ii) pay distributions on, redeem or repurchase capital stock or redeem or repurchase subordinated debt; (iii) make investments; (iv) sell assets; (v) enter into agreements that restrict distributions or other payments from restricted subsidiaries to the Company; (vi) incur or suffer to exist liens securing indebtedness; (vii) consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; and (viii) engage in transactions with affiliates. These covenants could adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs and pursue available business opportunities. In addition, our Senior Secured Credit Facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests. Events beyond our control, including changes in general economic and business conditions, may affect our ability to meet those financial ratios and financial condition tests. We cannot assure that we will meet those tests or that the lenders will waive any failure to meet those tests. A breach of any of these covenants or any other restrictive covenants contained in our Senior Secured Credit Facility would result in an event of default. If an event of default under our Senior Secured Credit Facility occurs, the holders of the affected indebtedness could declare all amounts outstanding, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If we were unable to pay such amounts, the lenders in our Senior Secured Credit Facility could proceed against the collateral pledged to them. We have pledged a substantial portion of our assets to the lenders under our Senior Secured Credit Facility. Our indebtedness may impair our ability to operate our business successfully. The terms of our indebtedness could have important consequences including restricting our ability to borrow additional amounts; using our cash flow from operations to fund operating, strategic and debt service requirements; placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared with those of our competitors that have less debt; and exposing us to risk of higher interest expense, in the event of increases in interest rates because some of our borrowings have variable interest rate provisions.6Table of Contents In addition, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to repay our indebtedness when it becomes due and to meet other cash needs. If we are not able to pay our debts as they become due, we may be required to pursue one or more alternative strategies, such as selling assets, refinancing or restructuring our indebtedness or selling additional debt or equity securities. We may not be able to refinance our debt or sell additional debt or equity securities or our assets on favorable terms, if at all, and if we must sell assets, it may negatively affect our ability to generate sales. Changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect us. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous jurisdictions outside of the United States. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our worldwide provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. For example, our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by the mix of earnings in various tax jurisdictions with different tax rates, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, the timing and amounts of funds repatriated to the U.S., and changes in tax laws, regulations and accounting principles and interpretations. We are subject to tax audits in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income tax against us. The final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals, resulting in a material reduction of net income. The majority of our operations are outside the United States, which subjects us to risks that may adversely affect our operating results.Our business is subject to risks related to the differing legal and regulatory requirements and the social, political and economic conditions of many jurisdictions. These risks include fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; political instability, civil unrest or labor difficulties, especially in the DRC and surrounding countries; inconsistent support of legal rights; difficulty collecting receivables and longer customer payment cycles; unexpected additional taxes, tariffs, restrictions on capital flows, and restrictions on trade; and unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements. Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed in differing legal, regulatory, economic, social and political conditions. We cannot assure you that we will implement policies and strategies that will be effective in each location where we do business.We engage in business in certain countries where the risk of public sector corruption and bribery is high. We have implemented policies and procedures and conducted employee training to assure that our operations are in compliance with anti-corruption laws. If our compliance actions fail, a violation of anti-corruption laws could result in serious penalties, including criminal and civil sanctions.The level of returns on pension plan assets and changes in the actuarial assumptions used could adversely affect us. Our operating results may be positively or negatively impacted by the amount of expense we record for our defined benefit pension plans. U.S. GAAP requires that we calculate pension expense using actuarial valuations, which are dependent upon our various assumptions including estimates of expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, discount rates for future payment obligations, and the expected rate of increase in future compensation levels. Our pension expense and funding requirements may also be affected by our actual return on plan assets, and by legislation and other government regulatory actions. Changes in assumptions, laws or regulations could lead to variability in operating results and could have a material adverse impact on liquidity. Our financial condition could be negatively impacted if we fail to maintain sufficient cash in the United States. The majority of our cash and cash equivalents are held outside the United States. If a substantial amount of cash were required in the United States for debt repayment, capital expenditures or other special initiatives including future acquisitions, we may be required to repatriate funds to the United States or otherwise finance the desired activity. If funds are repatriated to the United States, they could be subject to additional taxation. We maintain cash balances in U.S. and foreign financial institutions. While we monitor the financial institutions with which we maintain accounts, we may not be able to recover our funds in the event that a financial institution fails. As a result, this could adversely affect our ability to fund normal operations or capital expenditures. 7Table of ContentsWe are exposed to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. In addition to the United States, we have operations in Africa, Canada, Europe and Asia-Pacific. Although a significant portion of our raw material purchases and product sales are transacted in U.S. dollars, liabilities for non-U.S. operating expenses and income taxes are denominated in local currencies. Many of our foreign operating subsidiaries use the local currency as their functional currency. These include, among others, the European Union Euro, Taiwanese Dollar, Malaysian Ringgit, Singapore Dollar, British Pound Sterling, Japanese Yen, Chinese Renminbi and the Canadian Dollar. In these circumstances, the financial condition and results of operations of our foreign operating subsidiaries are reported in the relevant functional currency and then translated to U.S. dollars at the applicable currency exchange rate for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. Changes in exchange rates between these foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar may adversely affect the recorded levels of our assets and liabilities. In addition to currency translation risks, we incur currency transaction risk whenever we enter into either a purchase or sales transaction using a currency other than the functional currency of the transacting entity. We are subject to stringent environmental regulation and may incur unanticipated costs or liabilities arising out of environmental matters. We are subject to stringent laws and regulations relating to the storage, handling, disposal, emission and discharge of materials into the environment, and we have expended, and may be required to expend in the future, substantial funds for compliance with such laws and regulations. In addition, we may from time to time be subjected to claims for personal injury, property damages or natural resource damages made by third parties or regulators. Given the many uncertainties involved in assessing liability for environmental claims, our current reserves may prove to be insufficient. In addition, our current reserves are based only on known sites and the known contamination on those sites. It is possible that additional remediation sites will be identified in the future or that unknown contamination at previously identified sites will be discovered. This could require us to make additional expenditures for environmental remediation or could result in exposure to claims in the future. Changes in environmental, health and safety regulatory requirements could affect sales of our products. New or revised governmental regulations relating to health, safety and the environment may affect demand for our products. For example, the European Union's REACH legislation, which has established a system to register and evaluate chemicals manufactured in, or imported to, the European Union and requires additional testing, documentation and risk assessments for the chemical industry, could affect our ability to sell certain products. Such new or revised regulations may result in heightened concerns about the chemicals involved and in additional requirements being placed on the production, handling, or labeling of these chemicals and may increase the cost of producing them and/or limit the use of such chemicals or products containing such chemicals, which could lead to a decrease in demand. As a result of these regulations, customers may avoid purchasing some products in favor of perceived environmentally sensitive, less hazardous or less costly alternatives which could adversely affect sales of our products. Additional new regulations may require us to incur significant additional compliance costs. We may not be able to respond effectively to technological changes in our industry or in our customers' products. Our future business success will depend in part upon our ability to maintain and enhance our technological capabilities, develop and market products and applications that meet changing customer needs and successfully anticipate or respond to technological changes on a cost-effective and timely basis. Moreover, technological and other changes in our customers' products or processes may render some of our products unnecessary, which would reduce the demand for those products. In addition, technical advances by competitors may lead to production of less expensive or more effective products could reduce future sales. We may not be able to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights. We rely on patents and trade secrets to protect our intellectual property. We attempt to protect and restrict access to our trade secrets and proprietary information, but it may be possible for a third party to obtain our information and develop similar technologies. If a competitor infringes upon our patent or other intellectual property rights, enforcing those rights could be difficult, expensive and time-consuming, making the outcome uncertain. Even if we are successful, litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against challenge could be costly and could divert management's attention. Because we depend on several large customers for a significant portion of our revenues, our operating results could be adversely affected by any disruption of our relationship with these customers or any material adverse change in their businesses.We depend on several large customers for a significant portion of our business. Sales to Nichia Chemical Corporation 8Table of Contentsrepresented approximately 10-15% of consolidated net sales in 2009 through 2011. Sales to the top three customers in the Battery Technologies segment represented over half of Battery Technologies' net sales in 2011. Any disruption in our relationships with our major customers, including any adverse modification of our agreements with them or their unwillingness or inability to perform their obligations under the agreements, could adversely affect us. In addition, any material adverse change in the financial condition of any of our major customers could have similar adverse effects. We operate in very competitive industries. We have many competitors. Some of our principal competitors have greater financial and other resources and greater brand recognition than we have. Accordingly, these competitors may be better able to withstand changes in conditions within the industries in which we operate and may have significantly greater operating and financial flexibility than we do. As a result of the competitive environment in the markets in which we operate, we currently face and will continue to face pressure on the sales prices of our products from competitors and large customers. With these pricing pressures, we may experience future reductions in the profit margins on our sales, or may be unable to pass on future raw material price or operating cost increases to our customers, which also would reduce profit margins. As we have few long-term commitments from our customers, this competitive environment could give rise to a sudden loss of business. There has been a trend toward consolidation in our industries. We believe that industry consolidation among our peers may result in stronger competitors with greater financial and other resources that are better able to compete for customers. The insurance that we maintain may not fully cover all potential exposures. We maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance but such insurance may not cover all risks associated with the hazards of our business and is subject to limitations, including deductibles and maximum liabilities covered. We may incur losses beyond the limits, or outside the coverage, of our insurance policies, including liabilities for environmental remediation. We are potentially at risk if one or more of our insurance carriers fail. Additionally, severe disruptions in the domestic and global financial markets could adversely impact the ratings and survival of some insurers. Future downgrades in the ratings of enough insurers could adversely impact both the availability of appropriate insurance coverage and its cost. In the future, we may not be able to obtain coverage at current levels, and our premiums may increase significantly on coverage that we maintain. Our Battery Technologies segment does business with the United States Government and as a result is subject to certain government regulations. U.S. Government contracts are subject to specific regulations. We must also comply with various other government regulations and requirements as well as various statutes related to employment practices, environmental protection, recordkeeping and accounting. These laws impact how we transact business with our governmental clients and, in some instances, impose significant costs on our business operations. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations, requirements or statutes, our existing government contracts could be terminated, and we could be temporarily suspended or even debarred from government contracting or subcontracting. We may be impacted by government audits, investigations and proceedings. For example, government agencies such as the U.S. Defense Contract Audit Agency routinely review and audit government contractors for performance on contracts, pricing practices, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, while such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. Despite the fact that we take precautions to prevent and deter fraud, misconduct or other non-compliance, we face the risk that our employees, partners or subcontractors may engage in such activities. If any of these agencies determine that a rule or regulation has been violated, a variety of penalties can be imposed, including criminal and civil penalties, payments to us may be disallowed, our reputation with the government could be harmed, and we could be restricted from future government activities. If one or more of our government contracts are terminated for any reason, including for convenience, if we are restricted from government contract work, or if payment for our costs is disallowed, we could suffer a significant reduction in sales. Contracts with the U.S. Government are subject to uncertain levels of funding, modification due to changes in customer priorities and potential termination.The funding of U.S. Government programs is subject to congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes. For certain programs, Congress appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may extend over several fiscal years. Consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially and additional funds are committed only as Congress makes further appropriations. We cannot predict the extent to which funding will be 9Table of Contentsincluded, increased or reduced as part of the budgets ultimately approved by Congress or included in the scope of separate supplemental appropriations. In the event that appropriations for one or more of our, or our customers', programs becomes unavailable, or is reduced or delayed, our contract or subcontract under such program may be terminated or adjusted by the U.S. Government, which could adversely affect future sales under such program. We also cannot predict the impact of potential changes in priorities due to military transformation and planning and/or the nature of war-related activity on existing, follow-on or replacement programs. A shift of government priorities to programs in which we do not participate and/or reductions in funding for or the termination of programs in which we do participate, unless offset by other programs and opportunities, could adversely affect our sales. In addition, the U.S. Government generally has the ability to terminate contracts, in whole or in part, without prior notice, for convenience or for default based on performance. In the event of termination for the government's convenience, contractors are entitled to reimbursement for allowable costs and profits on authorized work performed through the date of termination. Termination resulting from our default can expose us to liability and adversely affect our ability to compete for future contracts.Failure to retain and recruit key personnel would harm our ability to meet key objectives.Our key personnel are critical to the management and direction of our businesses. Our future success depends, in large part, on our ability to retain key personnel and other capable management personnel. It is particularly important that we retain our senior management group that is responsible for implementing our strategic transformation. If we were not able to attract and retain talented personnel and replace key personnel should the need arise, we may not successfully execute our strategy.Our stock price may continue to be volatile.Historically, our common stock has experienced substantial price volatility. In addition, the stock market has experienced and continues to experience significant price and volume volatility that has often been unrelated to our operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsThe Company has received no written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of its 2011 fiscal year and that remain unresolved.