Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are some of the risks and uncertainties that could cause the Company’s actual financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this 20 Table of Contents report or the Company’s other filings with the SEC. If any of the following risks actually occurred, the Company’s business, financial condition and operating results could suffer, and the trading price of its Common Stock could decline. The market price of the Company’s stock may be affected adversely by changes in the Company’s dividend policy. The ability of the Company to pay dividends is dependent upon its ability to maintain funds from operations and cash flow and to make accretive new investments. A failure to maintain dividend payments at current levels could result in a reduction of the market price of the Company’s stock. Subsequent to the anticipated sales of the Company’s senior living portfolio, the Company intends to reset its quarterly dividend to an amount commensurate with the smaller asset base resulting from the sales. The anticipated sales of the Company’s senior living portfolio have not yet closed and are subject to events outside the control of the Company. The sales of the Company’s senior living portfolio are subject to negotiation with third parties and other business risks associated with the ownership of real property, such as casualty loss. If these transactions do not close for any reason, the strategic results that the Company hopes to achieve, including the payment of a one-time special dividend, will not be realized. There can be no assurance that the sales will occur within the timeframe that the Company expects or at all. At times, the Company may have cash that it is unable to invest in suitable properties, which could adversely affect the Company’s future revenues and its ability to maintain or increase dividends to shareholders; there is considerable competition in the Company’s market for attractive investments. From time to time, the Company will have cash available from various sources, including (1) the proceeds of sales of shares of its securities, (2) principal payments on its mortgage investments, and (3) the sale of its properties, including non-elective dispositions under the terms of master leases or similar financial support arrangements. The Company must invest these proceeds, on a timely basis and at comparable yields, in other healthcare investments or in qualified short-term investments. The Company competes for real estate investments with a broad variety of potential investors. This competition for investments may negatively affect the Company’s ability to make timely investments on acceptable terms. While funds are unused for property investments, they are invested in short-term obligations which have been at historically low yields. Accordingly, delays in utilizing excess cash to acquire properties will negatively impact revenues and perhaps the Company’s ability to maintain or increase its distributions to shareholders. At times, the Company may have limited access to capital, which would slow the Company’s growth. A REIT is required to make dividend distributions and retains less of its capital for growth. As a result, a REIT is required to grow through the steady investment of new capital in real estate assets. Presently, the Company has sufficient capital availability. However, there will be times when the Company will have limited access to capital from the equity and/or debt markets. During such periods, virtually all of the Company’s available capital will be required to meet existing commitments and to reduce existing debt. The Company may not be able to obtain additional equity or debt capital or dispose of assets on favorable terms, if at all, at the time it requires additional capital to acquire healthcare properties on a competitive basis or to meet its obligations. Adverse trends in the healthcare service industry may negatively affect the Company’s lease revenues and the values of its investments. The healthcare service industry is currently experiencing: • Changing trends in the method of delivery of healthcare services; • Increased expense for uninsured patients; • Increased liability insurance expense; • Continuing pressure by private and governmental payors to contain costs and reimbursements; and • Increased scrutiny and formal investigations by federal and state authorities. 21 Table of Contents These changes can adversely affect the economic performance of some or all of the tenants and sponsors who provide financial support to the Company’s investments and, in turn, negatively affect the lease revenues and the value of the Company’s property investments. The Company’s revenues depend on the ability of its tenants and sponsors to generate sufficient income from their operations to make loan and rent payments to the Company. The Company’s revenues are subject to the financial strength of its tenants and sponsors. The Company has no operational control over the business of these tenants and sponsors who face a wide range of competitive and regulatory pressures and constraints. Such pressures and constraints could materially impair these tenants and sponsors and prevent them from making their loan and rent payments to the Company which may have a negative effect on the Company’s revenues. If a healthcare tenant loses its licensure or certification, becomes unable to provide healthcare services, cannot meet its financial obligations to the Company or otherwise vacates the facility, the Company would have to obtain another provider for the affected facility. If the Company loses a tenant or sponsor and is unable to attract another healthcare provider on a timely basis and on acceptable terms the Company’s revenues could suffer. In addition, many of the Company’s properties are special-purpose facilities that may not be easily adaptable to uses unrelated to healthcare. Transfers of operations of healthcare facilities are often subject to regulatory approvals not required for transfers of other types of commercial operations and real estate. The Company may experience uninsured or underinsured losses related to casualty or liability. The Company generally requires its tenants to maintain comprehensive liability and property insurance that covers the Company as well as the tenants. The Company also carries comprehensive liability insurance and property insurance covering its owned and managed properties. Some types of losses, however, either may be uninsurable or too expensive to insure against. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, the Company could lose all or a portion of the capital it has invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. In such an event, the Company might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligation related to the property. The Company cannot give assurance that material losses in excess of insurance proceeds will not occur in the future. The Company owns facilities that are operated by companies that have experienced regulatory and legal problems. The Company’s tenants and sponsors are subject to a complex system of federal and state regulations relating to the delivery of healthcare services. If a tenant or sponsor experiences regulatory or legal problems, the Company could be at risk for amounts owed to it by the tenant under leases or financial support agreements. If the Company fails to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, it may not be able to accurately or timely report its financial results. Management of the Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Internal control over financial reporting includes: maintaining records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the Company’s transactions; providing reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary for preparation of the financial statements; providing reasonable assurance that the Company’s receipts and expenditures of its assets are made in accordance with management authorization; and providing reasonable assurance that unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of Company assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements would be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that a misstatement of the Company’s financial statements would be prevented or detected. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit the Company’s ability to report financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. 22 Table of Contents Failure to maintain its status as a REIT, even in one taxable year, could cause the Company to reduce its dividends dramatically. The Company intends to qualify at all times as a REIT under the Code. If in any taxable year the Company does not qualify as a REIT, it would be taxed as a corporation. As a result, the Company could not deduct its distributions to the shareholders in computing its taxable income. Depending upon the circumstances, a REIT that loses its qualification in one year may not be eligible to re-qualify during the four succeeding years. Further, certain transactions or other events could lead to the Company being taxed at rates ranging from four to 100 percent on certain income or gains. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 