Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are some of the risks and uncertainties that could cause the Company’s actual financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report or the Company’s other filings with the SEC. These risks, as well as the risks described in “Competition,” “Government Regulation,” and “Taxation of the Company” should be carefully considered before making an investment decision regarding the Company. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company and there may be additional risks that the Company does not presently know of or that the Company currently considers not likely to have a significant impact. If any of the following risks actually occurred, the Company’s business, financial condition and operating results could suffer, and the trading price of its Common Stock could decline. The Company is subject to risks associated with the development of properties. The Company intends to continue to pursue the development of properties as opportunities arise. The Company is subject to certain risks associated with the development of properties including the following: • The construction of properties generally require various government and other approvals which may not be received; • Unsuccessful development opportunities could result in the recognition of direct expenses which could impact the Company’s results of operations; • Construction costs of a development property may exceed original estimates, which could impact its profitability to the Company; 22 Table of Contents • Time required to complete the construction of a property or to lease up a completed development property may be greater than originally anticipated, thereby adversely affecting the Company’s cash flow and liquidity; • Occupancy rates and rents of a completed development property may not be sufficient to make the property profitable to the Company; and • Favorable sources to fund the Company’s development activities may not be available when needed. The Company is exposed to risks associated with entering new geographic markets. The Company’s acquisition and development activities may involve entering geographic markets where the Company has not previously had a presence. The construction and/or acquisition of properties in new geographic areas involves risks, including the risk that the property will not perform as anticipated and the risk that any actual costs for site development and improvements identified in the pre-construction or pre-acquisition due diligence process will exceed estimates. There is, and it is expected that there will continue to be, significant competition for investment opportunities that meet management’s investment criteria, as well as risks associated with obtaining financing for acquisition activities, if necessary. The Company may be unsuccessful in operating completed real estate development properties. The Company’s real estate properties developed or acquired may not perform in accordance with management’s expectations because of many factors including the following: • The Company’s purchase price for acquired facilities may be based upon a series of market judgments which may be incorrect; and • The costs of any improvements required to bring an acquired facility up to standards necessary to establish the market position intended for that facility might exceed budgeted costs. Further, the Company can give no assurance that acquisition and development property targets that will meet management’s investment criteria will be available when needed or anticipated. Certain of the Company’s long-term master leases and financial support agreements are expiring and may not be renewed past their expiration dates. Long-term master lease and financial support agreements entered into several years ago are expiring according to their terms and in some cases may not be extended or renewed. With respect to master leased properties, the Company may not be able to re-let those properties to new tenants at rental rates that are as high as the former master lease rate. With respect to properties with financial support agreements that are not renewed at expiration, the property operating income generated from those properties may decline. The market price of the Company’s stock may be affected adversely by changes in the Company’s dividend policy. The ability of the Company to pay dividends is dependent upon its ability to maintain funds from operations and cash flow and to make accretive new investments. A failure to maintain dividend payments at current levels could result in a reduction of the market price of the Company’s stock. At times, the Company may have cash that it is unable to invest in suitable properties, which could adversely affect the Company’s future revenues and its ability to maintain or increase dividends to shareholders; there is considerable competition in the Company’s market for attractive investments. From time to time, the Company will have cash available from various sources, including (1) the proceeds of sales of shares of its securities, (2) principal payments on its mortgage investments, and (3) the sale of its properties, including non-elective dispositions under the terms of master leases or similar financial support arrangements. The Company must invest these proceeds, on a timely basis and at comparable yields, in other healthcare investments or in qualified short-term investments. The Company competes for real estate investments with a broad variety of potential investors. This competition for investments may negatively affect the Company’s ability to make timely 23 Table of Contents investments on acceptable terms. While funds are unused for property investments, they are invested in short-term obligations which have been at historically low yields. Accordingly, delays in utilizing excess cash to acquire properties will negatively impact revenues and perhaps the Company’s ability to maintain or increase its distributions to shareholders. At times, the Company may have limited access to capital. A REIT is required by IRS regulations to make dividend distributions and retains less of its capital for growth. As a result, a REIT typically grows through the steady investment of new capital in real estate assets. Presently, the Company has sufficient capital availability. However, there may be times when the Company will have limited access to capital from the equity and/or debt markets. During such periods, virtually all of the Company’s available capital will be required to meet existing commitments and to reduce existing debt. The Company may not be able to obtain additional equity or debt capital or dispose of assets on favorable terms, if at all, at the time it requires additional capital to acquire healthcare properties on a competitive basis, complete construction and lease-up of properties on schedule which could result in increased debt service expense or construction costs, or otherwise meet its obligations. Adverse trends in the healthcare service industry may negatively affect the Company’s lease revenues and the values of its investments. The healthcare service industry is currently experiencing: • Changing trends in the method of delivery of healthcare services; • Increased expense for uninsured patients; • Increased competition among healthcare providers; • Increased liability insurance expense; • Continuing pressure by private and governmental payors to contain costs and reimbursements; and • Increased scrutiny and formal investigations by federal and state authorities. These changes, among others, can adversely affect the economic performance of some or all of the tenants and sponsors who provide financial support to the Company’s investments and, in turn, negatively affect the lease revenues and the value of the Company’s property investments. The Company’s revenues depend on the ability of its tenants and sponsors to generate sufficient income from their operations to make loan and rent payments to the Company. The Company’s revenues are subject to the financial strength of its tenants and sponsors. The Company has no operational control over the business of these tenants and sponsors who face a wide range of competitive and regulatory pressures and constraints. Such pressures and constraints could materially impair these tenants and sponsors and prevent them from making their loan and rent payments to the Company which may have a negative effect on the Company’s cash flows and results of operations. If a healthcare tenant loses its licensure or certification, becomes unable to provide healthcare services, cannot meet its financial obligations to the Company or otherwise vacates the facility, the Company would have to obtain another provider for the affected facility. If the Company loses a tenant or sponsor and is unable to attract another healthcare provider on a timely basis and on acceptable terms, the Company’s cash flows and results of operations could suffer. In addition, many of the Company’s properties are special purpose healthcare facilities that may not be easily adaptable to other uses. Transfers of operations of healthcare facilities are often subject to regulatory approvals not required for transfers of other types of commercial operations and real estate. 24 Table of Contents The Company may experience uninsured or underinsured losses related to casualty or liability. The Company generally requires its tenants to maintain comprehensive liability and property insurance that covers the Company as well as the tenants. The Company also carries comprehensive liability insurance and property insurance covering its owned and managed properties. In addition, tenants under long term master leases are required to carry property insurance covering the Company’s interest in the buildings. Some types of losses, however, either may be uninsurable or too expensive to insure against. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, the Company could lose all or a portion of the capital it has invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. In such an event, the Company might remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligation related to the property. The Company cannot give assurance that material losses in excess of insurance proceeds will not occur in the future. The Company owns facilities that are operated by companies that have experienced regulatory and legal problems. The Company’s tenants and sponsors are subject to a complex system of federal and state regulations relating to the delivery of healthcare services. If a tenant or sponsor experiences regulatory or legal problems, the Company could be at risk for amounts owed to it by the tenant under leases or financial support agreements. Failure to maintain its status as a REIT, even in one taxable year, could cause the Company to reduce its dividends dramatically. The Company intends to qualify at all times as a REIT under the Code. If in any taxable year the Company does not qualify as a REIT, it would be taxed as a corporation. As a result, the Company could not deduct its distributions to the shareholders in computing its taxable income. Depending upon the circumstances, a REIT that loses its qualification in one year may not be eligible to re-qualify during the four succeeding years. Further, certain transactions or other events could lead to the Company being taxed at rates ranging from four to 100 percent on certain income or gains. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 