Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces significant risks. These risks include those described below and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. These risks should be read in conjunction with the other information in this report. 8 Table of Contents EXTENDED BUSINESS INTERRUPTION AT OUR FACILITIES COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE IMPACT ON OPERATING RESULTS. Our results of operations are dependent in large part upon our ability to produce and deliver products promptly upon receipt of orders and to provide prompt and efficient service to our customers. Any disruption of our day-to-day operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, customer relations and profitability. Our Kokkola, Finland facility is the primary refining and production facility for our products. The GTL smelter in the DRC is the primary source for our cobalt raw material feed. Our Cleveland, Ohio facility serves as our corporate headquarters. These facilities are critical to our business, and a fire, flood, earthquake or other disaster or condition that damaged or destroyed any of these facilities could disable them. Any such damage to, or other condition interfering with the operation of these facilities would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to fully cover the potential risks described above. In addition, our insurance coverage may become more restrictive and/or increasingly costly, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable cost or at all. WE ARE AT RISK FROM UNCERTAINTIES IN THE SUPPLY OF UNREFINED COBALT, WHICH IS OUR PRIMARY RAW MATERIAL. There are a limited number of supply sources for unrefined cobalt. Production problems or political or civil instability in supplier countries, primarily the DRC, Australia, Finland and Russia, may affect the supply and market price of unrefined cobalt. In particular, political and civil instability and unexpected adverse changes in laws or regulatory requirements, including with respect to export duties and quotas, may affect the availability of raw materials from the DRC. If a substantial interruption should occur in the supply of unrefined cobalt from the DRC or elsewhere, we may not be able to obtain as much unrefined cobalt from other sources as would be necessary to satisfy our requirements at prices comparable to our current arrangements and our operating results could be adversely impacted. OUR SUBSTANTIAL INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS SUBJECT US TO RISKS, WHICH MAY INCLUDE UNFAVORABLE SOCIAL, LEGAL, POLITICAL, REGULATORY AND ECONOMIC CONDITIONS IN OTHER COUNTRIES. Our business is subject to risks related to the differing legal and regulatory requirements and the social, political and economic conditions of many jurisdictions. In addition to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, risks inherent in international operations include the following: • potential supply disruptions as a result of political instability, civil unrest or labor difficulties in countries in which we have operations, especially the DRC and surrounding countries; • agreements may be difficult to enforce and contracts and agreements may be subject to government renegotiation; • receivables may be difficult to collect through a foreign country’s legal system; • foreign customers may have longer payment cycles; • foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign income, impose tariffs or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade or investment, including currency exchange controls; • general economic conditions in the countries in which we operate could have an adverse effect on our earnings from operations in those countries; • unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements may occur, including with respect to export duties and quotas; and • compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations may be difficult. Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed in differing legal, regulatory, economic, social and political conditions. We cannot assure you that we will implement policies and strategies that will be effective in each location where we do business. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that any of the foregoing factors will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 9 Table of Contents WE ARE AT RISK FROM FLUCTUATIONS IN THE PRICE OF UNREFINED COBALT AND OTHER RAW MATERIALS. Unrefined cobalt is the principal raw material we use in manufacturing base metal chemistry products, and the cost of cobalt fluctuates due to actual or perceived changes in supply and demand, changes in the reference price and changes in availability from suppliers. Fluctuations in the prices of cobalt have been significant in the past and we believe price fluctuations are likely to occur in the future. Our ability to pass increases in raw material prices through to our customers by increasing the prices of our products is an important factor in our business. The extent of our profitability depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the differential between our product prices and raw material prices, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain an appropriate differential at all times. We may be required under U.S. GAAP accounting rules to write down the carrying value of our inventory when cobalt and other raw material prices decrease. In periods of raw material metal price declines or declines in the selling price of our finished products, inventory carrying values could exceed the amount we could realize on sale, resulting in a charge against inventory that could adversely affect our operating results. WE MAY EXPERIENCE DIFFICULTIES INTEGRATING REM AND BORCHERS. The integration of the operations of REM and Borchers involves consolidating products, operations and administrative functions. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions will depend in part upon our ability to integrate the businesses in an efficient and effective manner. The integration of the businesses faces significant challenges, and we may be unable to accomplish the integration successfully. In particular, the need to coordinate geographically dispersed organizations, the addition of lines of business in which we have not historically engaged and possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies may increase the difficulties of the integration. Additionally, we may incur substantial expense in our efforts to integrate general and administrative services and the key information processing systems of REM and Borchers into our pre-existing services and systems, and these efforts may not prove successful. The integration may take longer than planned and may be subject to unanticipated difficulties and expenses. The integration of these acquisitions will require the dedication of significant management resources and may temporarily divert management’s attention from operational matters. Employee uncertainty and lack of focus during the integration process may also disrupt our businesses. We may lose key personnel from the acquired organizations and employees in the acquired organizations may be resistant to change and may not adapt well to our corporate structure. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of our businesses. Any inability of management to successfully integrate the operations of REM and Borchers with our other businesses could result in our not achieving the projected profitability and efficiencies of these transactions and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, there may be liabilities of the acquired companies that we failed to or were unable to discover during the due diligence investigation and for which we, as a successor owner, may be responsible. Indemnities and warranties obtained from the sellers may not fully cover the liabilities due to limitations in scope, amount or duration, financial limitations of the indemnitor or warrantor or other reasons. WE ARE UNDERGOING A STRATEGIC TRANSFORMATION. As a result of changes to our strategic direction, we are currently in a transformational period in which we have made and may continue to make changes that could be material to our business, financial condition and results of operations. These changes have included the sale of our Nickel business and the REM and Borchers acquisitions. It is impossible to predict what additional changes will occur and the impact they will have on our future results of operations. 10 Table of Contents WE INTEND TO CONTINUE TO SEEK ADDITIONAL ACQUISITIONS, WHICH COULD DIVERT MANAGEMENT’S ATTENTION, RESULT IN DIFFICULTIES INTEGRATING THE ACQUIRED OPERATIONS AND EXPOSE US TO UNANTICIPATED COSTS AND LIABILITIES. Our strategy anticipates growth through future acquisitions. However, our ability to identify and consummate any future acquisitions on terms that are favorable to us may be limited by the number of attractive acquisition targets, internal demands on our resources and our ability to obtain financing. Our success in integrating newly acquired businesses will depend upon our ability to retain key personnel, avoid diversion of management’s attention from operational matters, and integrate general and administrative services and key information processing systems. In addition, future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional debt, costs and contingent liabilities. Integration of acquired operations may take longer, or be more costly or disruptive to our business, than originally anticipated. It is also possible that expected synergies from future acquisitions may not materialize. We may also incur costs and divert management attention with regard to potential acquisitions that are never consummated. There may be liabilities of the acquired companies that we fail to or are unable to discover during the due diligence investigation and for which we, as a successor owner, may be responsible. Indemnities and warranties obtained from the seller may not fully cover the liabilities due to limitations in scope, amount or duration, financial limitations of the indemnitor or warrantor or other reasons. THE RAPID INCREASE IN COBALT PRICES MAY CAUSE OUR CUSTOMERS TO LOOK FOR ALTERNATIVES TO COBALT IN THEIR PRODUCTS. The average reference price for cobalt increased from an average of $12.43 per pound in the first quarter of 2006 to an average of $32.68 in the fourth quarter of 2007. If prices for cobalt are sustained at this level or continue to increase, new markets and application opportunities for cobalt may diminish as the use of cobalt becomes too costly for some manufacturers. In addition, manufacturers that currently use cobalt for their products may look for less expensive alternatives for cobalt in existing products and applications. If these events were to occur, our sales and operating results could decrease substantially, resulting in decreased profitability. WE ARE EXPOSED TO FLUCTUATIONS IN FOREIGN EXCHANGE RATES, WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS. We have manufacturing and other facilities in North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific and Africa, and we market our products worldwide. Although most of our raw material purchases and product sales are transacted in U.S. dollars, liabilities for non-U.S. operating expenses and income taxes are denominated in local currencies. In addition, fluctuations in exchange rates may affect product demand and may adversely affect the profitability in U.S. dollars of products provided by us in foreign markets where payment for our products is made in the local currency. Accordingly, fluctuations in currency rates (particularly the Euro) may affect our operating results. WE ARE SUBJECT TO STRINGENT ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION AND MAY INCUR UNANTICIPATED COSTS OR LIABILITIES ARISING OUT OF ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS. We are subject to stringent laws and regulations relating to the storage, handling, disposal, emission and discharge of materials into the environment, and we have expended, and may be required to expend in the future, substantial funds for compliance with such laws and regulations. In addition, we may from time to time be subjected to claims for personal injury, property damages or natural resource damages made by third parties or regulators. Our annual environmental compliance costs were $8.0 million in 2007. In addition, we made capital expenditures of approximately $1.9 million in 2007 in connection with environmental compliance. As of December 31, 2007, we had reserves of $4.9 million for environmental liabilities. However, given the many uncertainties involved in assessing liability for environmental claims, our current reserves may prove to be insufficient. We continually evaluate the adequacy of our reserves and adjust reserves when determined to be appropriate. In addition, our current reserves are based only on known sites and the known contamination on those sites. It is possible that additional remediation sites will be identified in the future or that unknown contamination at previously identified sites will be discovered. This could require us to make additional expenditures for environmental remediation or could result in exposure to claims in the future. 11 Table of Contents CHANGES IN ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH AND SAFETY REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS COULD AFFECT SALES OF THE COMPANY’S PRODUCTS. New or revised governmental regulations relating to health, safety and the environment may affect demand for our products. The European Union’s REACH legislation, for example, could affect our ability to sell certain products. REACH establishes a new system to register and evaluate chemicals manufactured in, or imported to, the European Union and requires additional testing, documentation and risk assessments for the chemical industry. Such new or revised regulations may result in heightened concerns about the chemicals involved and in additional requirements being placed on the production, handling, or labeling of the chemicals and may increase the cost of producing them and/or limit the use of such chemicals or products containing such chemicals, which could lead to a decrease in demand. The regulations likely will require us to incur significant additional compliance costs. IMPLEMENTATION OF AN ENTERPRISE RESOURCE PLANNING (“ERP”) PROJECT HAS THE POTENTIAL FOR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION AND ASSOCIATED ADVERSE IMPACT ON OPERATING RESULTS. We have initiated a multi-year ERP project that is expected to be implemented worldwide to achieve increased efficiency and effectiveness in supply chain, financial processes and management reporting. During 2007, we began the implementation at several locations. We will continue to implement the ERP system in a phased approach through 2009. The implementation of the ERP system has the potential to disrupt our business by delaying the processing of key business transactions. In addition, the implementation of the ERP system may take longer than anticipated or be more costly than originally estimated. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO RESPOND EFFECTIVELY TO TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES IN OUR INDUSTRY OR IN OUR CUSTOMERS’ PRODUCTS. Our future business success will depend in part upon our ability to maintain and enhance our technological capabilities, develop and market products and applications that meet changing customer needs and successfully anticipate or respond to technological changes on a cost-effective and timely basis. Our inability to anticipate, respond to or utilize changing technologies could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Moreover, technological and other changes in our customers’ products or processes may render some of our specialty chemicals unnecessary, which would reduce the demand for those chemicals. BECAUSE WE DEPEND ON SEVERAL LARGE CUSTOMERS FOR A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF OUR REVENUES, OUR OPERATING RESULTS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY ANY DISRUPTION OF OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH THESE CUSTOMERS OR ANY MATERIAL ADVERSE CHANGE IN THEIR BUSINESSES. We depend on several large customers for a significant portion of our business. In 2007, the top five customers accounted for 40% of net sales. Sales to Nichia Chemical Corporation represented approximately 23% of net sales in 2007. Any disruption in our relationships with our major customers, including any adverse modification of our agreements with them or the unwillingness or inability of them to perform their obligations under the agreements, would adversely affect our operating results. In addition, any material adverse change in the financial condition of any of our major customers would have similar adverse effects. WE OPERATE IN VERY COMPETITIVE INDUSTRIES. We have many competitors. Some of our principal competitors have greater financial and other resources and greater brand recognition than we have. Accordingly, these competitors may be better able to withstand changes in conditions within the industries in which we operate and may have significantly greater operating and financial flexibility than we do. As a result of the competitive environment in the markets in which we operate, we currently face and will continue to face pressure on the sales prices of our products from competitors and large customers. With these pricing pressures, we may experience future reductions in the profit margins on our sales, or may be unable to pass on future raw material price or operating cost increases to our customers, which also would reduce profit margins. In addition, we may encounter increased competition in the future, which could have a material 12 Table of Contents adverse effect on our business. Since we conduct our business mainly on a purchase order basis, with few long-term commitments from our customers, this competitive environment could give rise to a sudden loss of business. INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION MAY LEAD TO INCREASED COMPETITION AND MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS. There has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets. We believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors with greater financial and other resources that are better able to compete for customers. This could lead to more variability in operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. FAILURE TO RETAIN AND RECRUIT KEY PERSONNEL WOULD HARM OUR ABILITY TO MEET KEY OBJECTIVES. Our key personnel are critical to the management and direction of our businesses. Our future success depends, in large part, on our ability to retain key personnel and other capable management personnel. It is particularly important that we maintain our senior management group that is responsible for implementing our strategic transformation. If we were not able to attract and retain talented personnel and replace key personnel should the need arise, the inability could make it difficult to meet key objectives and disrupt the operations of our businesses. CHANGES IN EFFECTIVE TAX RATES OR ADVERSE OUTCOMES RESULTING FROM EXAMINATION OF OUR INCOME TAX RETURNS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates, higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates, or if we incur losses for which no corresponding tax benefit can be realized, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof. In addition, we are subject to examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. INADEQUATELY PROTECTING OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS MAY ALLOW OTHER COMPANIES TO COMPETE DIRECTLY AGAINST US, OR WE MIGHT BE FORCED TO DISCONTINUE SELLING CERTAIN PRODUCTS. We rely on U.S. and foreign patents and trade secrets to protect our intellectual property. We attempt to protect and restrict access to our trade secrets and proprietary information, but it may be possible for a third party to obtain our information and develop similar technologies. If a competitor infringes upon our patent or other intellectual property rights, enforcing those rights could be difficult, expensive and time-consuming, making the outcome uncertain. Even if we are successful, litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against challenge could be costly and could divert management’s attention. OUR STOCK PRICE MAY CONTINUE TO BE VOLATILE. Historically, our common stock has experienced substantial price volatility, particularly as a result of changes in metal prices, primarily unrefined cobalt, which is our primary raw material. In addition, the stock market has experienced and continues to experience significant price and volume volatility that has affected the market price of equity securities of many companies. This volatility has often been unrelated to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 13 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has received no written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of its 2007 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 