Item 1A.Risk Factors Risks Related to our Business We face competition for the acquisition of factory outlet centers, and we may not be able to complete acquisitions that we have identified. One component of our business strategy is expansion through acquisitions, and we may not be successful in completing acquisitions that are consistent with our strategy. We compete with institutional pension funds, private equity investors, other REITs, small owners of factory outlet centers, specialty stores and others who are engaged in the acquisition, development or ownership of factory outlet centers and stores. These competitors may affect the supply/demand dynamics and, accordingly, increase the price we must pay for factory outlet centers we seek to acquire. These competitors may succeed in acquiring those factory outlet centers themselves. Also, our potential acquisition targets may find our competitors to be more attractive acquirers because they may have greater marketing and financial resources, may be willing to pay more, or may have a more compatible operating philosophy. In addition, the number of entities competing for factory outlet centers may increase in the future, which would increase demand for these factory outlet centers and the prices we must pay to acquire them. If we pay higher prices for factory outlet centers, our profitability may be reduced. Also, once we have identified potential acquisitions, such acquisitions are subject to the successful completion of due diligence, the negotiation of definitive agreements and the satisfaction of customary closing conditions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to reach acceptable terms with the sellers or that these conditions will be satisfied. The economic performance and the market value of our factory outlet centers are dependent on risks associated with real property investments. Real property investments are subject to varying degrees of risk. The economic performance and values of real estate may be affected by many factors, including changes in the national, regional and local economic climate, inflation, unemployment rates, consumer confidence, local conditions such as an oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for real estate in the area, the attractiveness of the properties to tenants, competition from other available space, our ability to provide adequate maintenance and insurance and increased operating costs. Real property investments are relatively illiquid. Our factory outlet centers represent a substantial portion of our total consolidated assets. These assets are relatively illiquid. As a result, our ability to sell one or more of our factory outlet centers in response to any changes in economic or other conditions is limited. If we want to sell a factory outlet center, there can be no assurance that we will be able to dispose of it in the desired time period or that the sales price will exceed the cost of our investment. Our earnings and therefore our profitability are entirely dependent on rental income from real property. Substantially all of our income is derived from rental income from real property. Our income and funds for distribution would be adversely affected if a significant number of our tenants were unable to meet their obligations to us or if we were unable to lease a significant amount of space in our centers on economically favorable lease terms. In addition, the terms of factory outlet store tenant leases traditionally have been significantly shorter than in other retail segments. There can be no assurance that any tenant whose lease expires in the future will renew such lease or that we will be able to re-lease space on economically favorable terms. We are subject to the risks associated with debt financing. We are subject to the risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that the cash provided by our operating activities will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest. If the national and world-wide financial crisis continues, disruptions in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our operations, including the ability to fund the planned capital expenditures and potential new developments or acquisitions. Further, there is the risk that we will not be able to repay or refinance existing indebtedness or that the terms of any refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of existing indebtedness. If we are unable to access capital markets to refinance our indebtedness on acceptable terms, we might be forced to dispose of properties on disadvantageous terms, which might result in losses. We are substantially dependent on the results of operations of our retailers. Our operations are necessarily subject to the results of operations of our retail tenants. A portion of our rental revenues are derived from percentage rents that directly depend on the sales volume of certain tenants. Accordingly, declines in these tenants' results of operations would reduce the income produced by our properties. If the sales of our retail tenants decline sufficiently, such tenants may be unable to pay their existing rents as such rents would represent a higher percentage of their sales. Any resulting leasing delays, failures to make payments or tenant bankruptcies could result in the termination of such tenants' leases. A number of companies in the retail industry, including some of our tenants, have declared bankruptcy or have voluntarily closed certain of their stores in recent years. The bankruptcy of a major tenant or number of tenants may result in the closing of certain affected stores, and we may not be able to re-lease the resulting vacant space for some time or for equal or greater rent. Such bankruptcy could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and could result in a lower level of funds for distribution. We are required by law to make distributions to our shareholders. To obtain the favorable tax treatment associated with our qualification as a REIT, generally, we are required to distribute to our common and preferred shareholders at least 90.0% of our net taxable income (excluding capital gains) each year. We depend upon distributions or other payments from our Operating Partnership to make distributions to our common and preferred shareholders. Our failure to qualify as a REIT could subject our earnings to corporate level taxation. We believe that we have operated and intend to operate in a manner that permits us to qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. However, we cannot assure you that we have qualified or will remain qualified as a REIT. If in any taxable year we were to fail to qualify as a REIT and certain statutory relief provisions were not applicable, we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to shareholders in computing taxable income and would be subject to U.S. federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. Our failure to qualify for taxation as a REIT would have an adverse effect on the market price and marketability of our securities. We depend on distributions from our Operating Partnership to meet our financial obligations, including dividends. Our operations are conducted by our Operating Partnership, and our only significant asset is our interest in our Operating Partnership. As a result, we depend upon distributions or other payments from our Operating Partnership in order to meet our financial obligations, including our obligations under any guarantees or to pay dividends or liquidation payments to our common and preferred shareholders. As a result, these obligations are effectively subordinated to existing and future liabilities of the Operating Partnership. Our Operating Partnership is a party to loan agreements with various bank lenders that require our Operating Partnership to comply with various financial and other covenants before it may make distributions to us. Although our Operating Partnership presently is in compliance with these covenants, we cannot assure you that it will continue to be in compliance and that it will be able to make distributions to us. We may be unable to develop new factory outlet centers or expand existing factory outlet centers successfully. We continue to develop new factory outlet centers and expand factory outlet centers as opportunities arise. However, there are significant risks associated with our development activities in addition to those generally associated with the ownership and operation of established retail properties. While we have policies in place designed to limit the risks associated with development, these policies do not mitigate all development risks associated with a project. These risks include the following: •significant expenditure of money and time on projects that may be delayed or never be completed; •higher than projected construction costs; •shortage of construction materials and supplies; •failure to obtain zoning, occupancy or other governmental approvals or to the extent required, tenant approvals; and •late completion because of construction delays, delays in the receipt of zoning, occupancy and other approvals or other factors outside of our control. Any or all of these factors may impede our development strategy and adversely affect our overall business. An uninsured loss or a loss that exceeds our insurance policies on our factory outlet centers or the insurance policies of our tenants could subject us to lost capital or revenue on those centers. Some of the risks to which our factory outlet centers are subject, including risks of war and earthquakes, hurricanes and other natural disasters, are not insurable or may not be insurable in the future. Should a loss occur that is uninsured or in an amount exceeding the combined aggregate limits for the insurance policies noted above or in the event of a loss that is subject to a substantial deductible under an insurance policy, we could lose all or part of our capital invested in and anticipated revenue from one or more of our factory outlet centers, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, as well as our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Under the terms and conditions of our leases, tenants generally are required to indemnify and hold us harmless from liabilities resulting from injury to persons and contamination of air, water, land or property, on or off the premises, due to activities conducted in the leased space, except for claims arising from negligence or intentional misconduct by us or our agents. Additionally, tenants generally are required, at the tenant's expense, to obtain and keep in full force during the term of the lease, liability and property damage insurance policies issued by companies acceptable to us. These policies include liability coverage for bodily injury and property damage arising out of the ownership, use, occupancy or maintenance of the leased space. All of these policies may involve substantial deductibles and certain exclusions. Therefore, an uninsured loss or loss that exceeds the insurance policies of our tenants could also subject us to lost capital or revenue. We may be subject to environmental regulation. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, we may be considered an owner or operator of real property and may be responsible for paying for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances released on or in our property or disposed of by us, as well as certain other potential costs which could relate to hazardous or toxic substances (including governmental fines and injuries to persons and property). This liability may be imposed whether or not we knew about, or were responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. Historically high fuel prices may impact consumer travel and spending habits. Our markets recently experienced historically high fuel prices. Most shoppers use private automobile transportation to travel to our factory outlet centers and many of our centers are not easily accessible by public transportation. Increasing fuel costs may reduce the number of trips to our centers thus reducing the amount spent at our centers. Many of our factory outlet center locations near tourist destinations may experience an even more acute reduction of shoppers if there were a reduction of people opting to drive to vacation destinations. Such reductions in traffic could adversely impact our percentage rents and ability to renew and release space at current rental rates. Increasing fuel costs may also reduce disposable income and decrease demand for retail products. Such a decrease could adversely affect the results of operations of our retail tenants and adversely impact our percentage rents and ability to renew and release space at current rental rates. Item 1B.Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved staff comments from the Commission. Item 