Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe following discussion of “risk factors” identifies the most significant risks that our business faces. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. There may be additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial. These risks should be read in conjunction with the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.We are subject to risks arising from uncertainty in worldwide economic conditions. Overall demand for our products and our profitability may be adversely affected by changes in global economic conditions, including inflationary or deflationary pressures; interest rates; access to and functioning of capital markets; consumer and business spending rates; and higher commodity, raw material and fuel costs. Current uncertainty regarding global economic conditions could lead to reduced demand for our products, reduced profitability, and increased payment delays or defaults. We are limited in our ability to reduce costs to offset the results of a prolonged or severe economic downturn in light of certain fixed costs associated with our operations. Extended business interruption at our key facilities could have an adverse impact on operating results. Our results of operations are dependent in large part upon our ability to produce and deliver products promptly upon receipt of orders. Our facilities in Finland, Germany, the United States, Taiwan and the DRC are critical to our business, and any damage to or other conditions significantly interfering with the operation of our facilities, such as an interruption of our supply lines or work stoppages, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are at risk from fluctuations in the price and uncertainties in the supply of cobalt, rare earth materials and other raw materials. Unrefined cobalt is the principal raw material we use in manufacturing Advanced Materials products, and nickel, cobalt and certain rare earth materials, primarily dysprosium and neodymium, are the primary raw materials used by Magnetic Technologies. Fluctuations in the price of cobalt, rare earth materials and other raw materials have been significant in the past and we believe price fluctuations are likely to occur in the future. Our ability to pass increases in raw material costs through to our customers by increasing the selling prices of our products is an important factor in our business. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain an appropriate differential between customer prices and our costs at all times, which could lead to reduced profitability. In addition, we may be required under U.S.GAAP accounting rules to write down the carrying value of our inventory when cobalt, rare earth and other raw material prices decrease. There are a limited number of supply sources for unrefined cobalt, primarily the DRC, Finland and Russia. Rare earth materials are available from a limited number of suppliers, primarily in China. Political and civil instability and unexpected adverse changes in laws or regulatory requirements, including with respect to export duties, quotas or embargoes, may affect the market price and availability of raw materials, including cobalt and rare earth materials, particularly from the DRC and China, respectively. If a substantial interruption should occur in the supply of cobalt or rare earth materials, we may not be able to obtain other sources of supply in a timely fashion or at a reasonable price. A substantial increase in the price or an interruption in supply of cobalt or rare earth materials may cause our customers to look for substitute materials or processes which could lead to reduced demand for our products. We intend to seek additional acquisitions, but we may not be able to identify attractive targets, complete transactions, or successfully integrate acquired companies, which could adversely affect our strategy. Our strategy anticipates growth partly through future acquisitions; however, our ability to identify and consummate any future acquisitions on terms that are favorable to us may be limited by the number of attractive acquisition targets, internal demands on our resources and our ability to obtain financing. Our success in integrating newly-acquired businesses could be compromised if we fail to retain key personnel or fail to execute effective integration plans. Integration of acquired operations may take longer, or be more costly or disruptive to our business, than originally anticipated, and it is also possible that expected synergies from future acquisitions may not materialize. We also may incur costs and divert management attention for potential acquisitions that are never consummated. Acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional debt, costs and contingent liabilities. There may be liabilities of the acquired companies that we fail to properly determine during the due diligence investigation and for which we, as a successor owner, may be responsible. Indemnities and warranties obtained from the seller may not fully cover the liabilities due to limitations in scope, amount, duration, financial limitations of the indemnitor or warrantor or other reasons. 5Table of ContentsOn January 21, 2013 we announced the signing of definitive agreements to exit our Advanced Materials business, but the arrangements are subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals, which might prevent their successful completion. The divestiture of our Advanced Materials business, including the sale of our refinery assets in Kokkola, Finland to a joint venture majority-owned by a subsidiary of Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold, Inc., and the transfer of the Company's equity interest in its DRC-based joint venture (GTL) to our current partners in GTL , are the final steps in exiting our legacy commodity businesses. The closing of the sale of the Advanced Materials business is subject to regulatory approvals in 5 jurisdictions and other customary conditions. While we do not believe that there are any issues that would delay or impede regulatory approvals or completion of the other closing conditions, there can be no assurances that all closing conditions will be met and the divestiture completed. A portion of the purchase price for the Advanced Materials business is contingent on the business achieving certain revenue targets over a period of three years, over which time we may receive all, a portion or none of the $110 million.In connection with the divestiture of our Advanced Materials business $110 million of the purchase price is subject to the buyer, a joint venture majority-owned by a subsidiary of Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold, Inc., achieving certain revenue targets over a period of three years. The achievement of those targets is subject to a number of factors not within our control, including cobalt metal price, the supply of unrefined cobalt and sales volumes. Accordingly, over the three year period following the closing, we may receive all, a portion or none of the $110 million contingent purchase price. Our indebtedness may impair our ability to operate our business successfully. The terms of our indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs and pursue available business opportunities. The terms of our Senior Secured Credit Facility contain various provisions that limit our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, make investments, sell assets and return capital to stockholders through dividends. These restrictions could place us at a competitive disadvantage against less levered competitors. In addition we are exposed to increases in interest rates since some of our borrowings have variable interest rate provisions.In addition, our Senior Secured Credit Facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios, satisfy certain financial condition tests, and repay our indebtedness when it becomes due. Events beyond our control, including changes in general economic and business conditions, may affect our ability to meet these requirements. We cannot assure that we will meet those requirements or that the lenders will waive any failure to meet those requirements. A breach of any of these covenants or any other restrictive covenants contained in our Senior Secured Credit Facility would result in an event of default. An event of default could result in the holders of the affected indebtedness declaring all amounts outstanding, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If we were unable to pay such amounts or secure new financing, Senior Secured Credit Facility lenders could proceed against the collateral pledged to them, which is a substantial portion of our assets.Changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect us. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous jurisdictions outside of the United States. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our worldwide provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. For example, our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by the mix of earnings in various tax jurisdictions with different tax rates, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, the timing and amounts of funds repatriated to the U.S., and changes in tax laws, regulations and accounting principles and interpretations. We are subject to tax audits in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income tax against us. The final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals, resulting in a material reduction of net income. The majority of our operations are outside the United States, which subjects us to risks that may adversely affect our operating results.Conducting business outside the U.S subjects the Company to risks related to the differing legal and regulatory requirements and the social, political and economic conditions of many jurisdictions. These risks include currency rate fluctuations, political instability, civil unrest or labor difficulties; inconsistent support of legal rights; difficulty collecting receivables and longer customer payment cycles; unexpected additional taxes, tariffs, restrictions on capital flows, 6Table of Contentsand restrictions on trade; and unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements. Furthermore, unexpected and dramatic devaluations of currencies in developing or emerging markets, could negatively affect the value of our earnings from, and of the assets located in, those markets.We engage in business in certain countries where the risk of public sector corruption and bribery is high. We have implemented policies and procedures and conducted employee training to assure that our operations are in compliance with anti-corruption laws. If our compliance actions fail, a violation of anti-corruption laws could result in serious penalties, including criminal and civil sanctions.The level of returns on pension plan assets and changes in the actuarial assumptions used could adversely affect us. Our operating results may be positively or negatively impacted by the amount of expense we record for our defined benefit pension plans. U.S. GAAP requires that we calculate pension expense using actuarial valuations, which are dependent upon our various assumptions including estimates of expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, discount rates for future payment obligations, and the expected rate of increase in future compensation levels. Our pension expense and funding requirements may also be affected by our actual return on plan assets, and by legislation and other government regulatory actions. Changes in assumptions, laws or regulations could lead to variability in operating results and could have a material adverse impact on liquidity. Our financial condition could be negatively impacted if we fail to maintain sufficient cash in the United States.The majority of our cash and cash equivalents are held outside the United States. If a substantial amount of cash were required in the United States for debt repayment, capital expenditures or other initiatives including future acquisitions, we may be required to repatriate funds to the United States with potentially unfavorable tax consequences or otherwise finance the desired activity. We are subject to stringent environmental regulation that could cause us to incur unanticipated costs or liabilities and could affect sales of our products. We have expended, and may be required to expend in the future, substantial funds for compliance with laws and regulations relating to the storage, handling, disposal, emission and discharge of materials into the environment. In addition, we may from time to time be subjected to claims for personal injury, property damages or natural resource damages made by third parties or regulators. Given the many uncertainties involved in assessing liability for environmental claims or fully anticipating the scope of unknown contamination and remediation, our current reserves may prove to be insufficient.In addition, new or revised governmental regulations relating to health, safety and the environment may affect demand for our products. For example, the European Union's REACH legislation, which has established a system to register and evaluate chemicals manufactured in, or imported to, the European Union and requires additional testing, documentation and risk assessments for the chemical industry, could affect our ability to sell certain products. Such new or revised regulations may result in heightened concerns about the chemicals involved and in additional requirements being placed on the production, handling, or labeling of these chemicals and may increase the cost of producing them, transporting them and/or limit the use of such chemicals or products containing such chemicals, which could lead to a decrease in demand. Similar legislation is being implemented in several other areas of the world. As a result of these regulations, customers may avoid purchasing some products in favor of perceived environmentally sensitive, less hazardous or less costly alternatives. We may not be able to respond effectively to technological changes in our industry or in our customers' products. Our future business success will depend in part upon our ability to continue to enhance our technological capabilities, develop and market products and applications that meet changing customer needs and successfully anticipate or respond to technological changes on a cost-effective and timely basis. Moreover, technological and other changes in our customers' products or processes may render some of our products obsolete, which would reduce the demand for those products. In addition, technical advances by competitors may lead to production of less expensive or more effective products could reduce future sales. We may not be able to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights. We rely on patents and trade secrets to protect our intellectual property. We attempt to protect and restrict access to our trade secrets and proprietary information, but it may be possible for a third party to obtain our information and develop similar technologies. If a competitor infringes upon our patent or other intellectual property rights, enforcing those rights could be difficult, expensive and time-consuming, making the outcome uncertain. Even if we are successful, 7Table of Contentslitigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against challenge could be costly and could divert management's attention. Because we depend on several large customers for a significant portion of our revenues, our operating results could be adversely affected by any disruption of our relationship with these customers or any material adverse change in their businesses.We depend on several large customers for a significant portion of our business. For example, sales to the top three customers in the Battery Technologies segment represented over half of Battery Technologies' net sales in 2012. Any disruption in our relationships with our major customers, including any adverse modification of our agreements with them or their unwillingness or inability to perform their obligations under the agreements, could adversely affect us. In addition, any material adverse change in the financial condition of any of our major customers could have similar adverse effects. We operate in very competitive industries. We have many competitors. Some of our principal competitors have greater financial and other resources and greater brand recognition than we have. Accordingly, these competitors may be better able to withstand changes in conditions within the industries in which we operate and may have significantly greater operating and financial flexibility than we do. As a result of the competitive environment in the markets in which we operate, we currently face and will continue to face pressure on the sales prices of our products from competitors and large customers. With these pricing pressures, we may experience future reductions in the profit margins on our sales, or may be unable to pass on future raw material price or operating cost increases to our customers, or incur to a sudden loss of business. We believe that industry consolidation among our peers could result in stronger competitors with greater financial and other resources that are better able to compete for customers. The insurance that we maintain may not fully cover all potential exposures. We maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance but such insurance may not cover all risks associated with the hazards of our business and is subject to limitations, including deductibles and maximum liabilities covered. We are potentially at risk if one or more of our insurance carriers fail. Additionally, severe disruptions in the domestic and global financial markets could adversely impact the ratings and survival of some insurers. In the future, we may not be able to obtain coverage at current levels, and our premiums may increase significantly on coverage that we maintain. Our Battery Technologies segment maintains contracts with the United States Government and is subject to government regulations and uncertain levels of funding or modification due to changes in customer priorities and potential termination.U.S. Government contracts are subject to specific regulations including those related to employment practices, environmental protection, recordkeeping and accounting. These laws impact how we transact business with our governmental clients and, in some instances, impose significant costs on our business operations. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations, requirements or statutes, our existing government contracts could be terminated, and we could be temporarily suspended or even debarred from government contracting or subcontracting which would reduce our sales and profits. Non-compliance with government regulations could also result in financial penalties, disallowed payments to us, and criminal prosecution. The funding of U.S. Government programs is subject to congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes. We cannot predict the extent to which funding will be provided as part of the budgets ultimately approved by Congress. In the event that appropriations for any of our or our customers' programs are impacted, our contract or subcontract under such program may be terminated or adjusted by the U.S. Government. We also cannot predict the impact of potential changes in priorities due to sequestration, military transformation and planning and/or the nature of war-related activity on related programs.We are at risk as a result of current circumstances and developments regarding the DRC.A substantial amount of our supply of cobalt is sourced from the DRC, a nation that has historically experienced outbreaks of political instability, changes in national and local leadership, financial crises and basic infrastructure challenges. GTL has experienced an increase in claims by DRC national and local government agencies for additional taxes and customs duties and we cannot predict whether GTL will receive additional claims in the future.8Table of ContentsFailure to retain and recruit key personnel would harm our ability to meet key objectives.Our key personnel are critical to the management and direction of our businesses. Our future success depends, in large part, on our ability to retain key personnel and other capable management personnel. It is particularly important that we retain our senior management group that is responsible for implementing our strategy. If we were not able to attract and retain talented personnel and replace key personnel should the need arise, we may not successfully execute our strategy.Our stock price may continue to be volatile.Historically, our common stock has experienced substantial price volatility. In addition, the stock market has experienced and continues to experience significant price and volume volatility that has often been unrelated to our operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.Any impairment in the value of our intangible assets, including goodwill, would negatively affect our operating results and total capitalization.Our total assets reflect substantial intangible assets, primarily goodwill. The goodwill results from our acquisitions and represents the excess of cost over the fair value of the identifiable net assets we acquired. We assess at least annually whether there has been any impairment in the value of our intangible assets. If future operating performance at one or more of our business units were to fall significantly below current levels, if competing or alternative technologies emerge, if market conditions for acquired businesses decline, if significant and prolonged negative industry or economic trends continue, if our stock price and market capitalization declines, or if future cash flow estimates decline, we could incur under current applicable accounting rules, a non-cash charge to operating earnings for goodwill impairment. Any determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of unamortized intangible assets would negatively affect our results of operations and equity book value, the effect of which could be material.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.