Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are some of the risks and uncertainties that could cause the Company’s actual financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report or the Company’s other filings with the SEC. If any of the following risks actually occurred, the Company’s business, financial condition and operating results could suffer, and the trading price of its Common Stock could decline. At times, the Company may have excess cash. A delay in investing cash available to it in suitable properties could adversely affect the Company’s future revenues and its ability to maintain or increase dividends to shareholders; there is considerable competition in the Company’s market for attractive investments. From time to time, the Company will have cash available from various sources, including (1) the proceeds of sales of shares of its securities, (2) principal payments on its mortgage investments, and (3) the sale of its properties, including non-elective dispositions under the terms of master leases or similar financial support arrangements. The Company must invest these proceeds, on a timely basis and at comparable yields, in other healthcare investments or in qualified short-term investments. The Company competes for real estate investments with a broad variety of potential investors. This competition for investments may negatively affect the Company’s ability to make timely investments on acceptable terms. While funds are unused for property investments, they are invested in short-term obligations which have been at historically low yields. Accordingly, delays in utilizing excess cash to acquire properties will negatively impact revenues and perhaps the Company’s ability to maintain or increase its distributions to shareholders. At other times, the Company may have limited access to capital, which would slow the Company’s growth. A REIT is required to make dividend distributions and retains little capital for growth. As a result, a REIT is required to grow through the steady investment of new capital in real estate assets. Presently, the Company has sufficient capital availability. However, there will be times when the Company will have limited access to capital from the equity and/or debt markets. During such periods, virtually all of the Company’s available capital will be required to meet existing commitments and to reduce existing debt. The Company may not be able to obtain additional equity or debt capital or dispose of assets on favorable terms, if at all, at the time it requires additional capital to acquire healthcare properties on a competitive basis or to meet its obligations. 19 Table of Contents A reduction in the Company’s dividends could reduce the market price of its stock. The ability of the Company to pay dividends is dependent upon its ability to maintain funds from operations and cash flow and to make accretive new investments. In addition, the Company is subject to financial covenant restrictions with its lenders that limit dividend payments. Although it has historically increased the dividend each quarter, the Company decided to maintain the quarterly dividend for the third and fourth quarters of 2005 at the same level as the second quarter. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to resume its practice of increasing quarterly dividends or that it will be able to maintain dividend payments. If the Company fails to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, it may not be able to accurately or timely report its financial results. Management of the Company determined that internal control over financial reporting was ineffective as of December 31, 2004, because material weaknesses in the Company’s system of internal control over financial reporting existed as of such date. The Company has taken remedial measures to correct these material weaknesses and has concluded that its internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2005. However, the Company can give no assurance that it will not have material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in its internal control over financial reporting in the future and it cannot be sure the remedial measures it has taken to correct the material weaknesses it identified in 2004 will ensure that the Company maintains adequate controls over its financial reporting processes in the future. An ineffective control environment, if not remedied, could result in a misstatement of the Company’s financial statements that could cause a delay in periodic filings with the SEC and such delay could cause a violation of debt covenants. Adverse trends in the healthcare service industry may negatively affect the Company’s lease revenues and the values of its investments. The healthcare service industry is currently experiencing: • Changing trends in the method of delivery of healthcare services; • Competition among healthcare providers for patients; • Increased expense for uninsured patients; • Increased liability insurance expense; • Continuing pressure by private and governmental payors to contain costs and reimbursements; and • Increased scrutiny and formal investigations by federal and state authorities. These changes can adversely affect the economic performance of some or all of the tenants and sponsors who provide financial support to the Company’s investments and, in turn, negatively affect the lease revenues and the value of the Company’s property investments. The Company’s revenues depend on the ability of its tenants and sponsors to generate sufficient income from their operations to make loan and rent payments to the Company. The Company’s revenues are subject to the financial strength of its tenants and sponsors. The Company has no operational control over the business of these tenants and sponsors who face a wide range of competitive and regulatory pressures and constraints. Such pressures and constraints could materially impair these tenants and sponsors and prevent them from making their loan and rent payments to the Company which may have a negative effect on the Company’s revenues. If a healthcare tenant loses its licensure or certification, becomes unable to provide healthcare services, cannot meet its financial obligations to the Company or otherwise vacates the facility, the Company would have to obtain another provider for the affected facility. If the Company loses a tenant or sponsor and is unable to attract another healthcare provider on a timely basis and on acceptable terms the Company’s revenues could suffer. In addition, many of the Company’s properties are special-purpose facilities that may not be easily adaptable to uses unrelated to healthcare. Transfers of operations of healthcare facilities are often subject to regulatory approvals not required for transfers of other types of commercial operations and real estate. 20 Table of Contents The Company may experience uninsured or underinsured losses related to casualty or liability. The Company generally requires its tenants to maintain comprehensive liability and property insurance that covers the Company as well as the tenants. The Company also carries comprehensive liability insurance and property insurance covering its owned and managed properties. Some types of losses, however, either may be uninsurable or too expensive to insure against. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, the Company could lose all or a portion of the capital it has invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. In such an event, the Company might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligation related to the property. The Company cannot give assurance that material losses in excess of insurance proceeds will not occur in the future. The Company owns facilities that are operated by companies that have experienced regulatory and legal problems. The Company’s tenants and sponsors are subject to a complex system of federal and state regulations relating to the delivery of healthcare services. If a tenant or sponsor experiences regulatory or legal problems, the Company could be at risk for amounts owed to it by the tenant under leases or financial support agreements. In recent years, two of the Company’s larger clients (HealthSouth Corporation and Tenet Healthcare Corporation) have been subject to several federal and state civil and criminal enforcement actions and several related civil lawsuits. The Company has received all material amounts due from both HealthSouth and Tenet and has received no indication from either company that it will be unable to continue paying amounts owed to the Company under its current leases and financial support agreements. However, the Company can give no assurance that receipt of such amounts will continue or that other lessees will not have similar problems. Failure to maintain its status as a REIT, even in one taxable year, could cause the Company to reduce its dividends dramatically. The Company intends to qualify at all times as a REIT under the Code. If in any taxable year the Company does not qualify as a REIT, it would be taxed as a corporation. As a result, the Company could not deduct its distributions to the shareholders in computing its taxable income. Depending upon the circumstances, a REIT that loses its qualification in one year may not be eligible to re-qualify during the four succeeding years. Further, certain transactions or other events could lead to the Company being taxed at rates ranging from four to 100 percent on certain income or gains. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 