Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces significant risks. These risks include those described below and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. These risks should be read in conjunction with the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. EXTENDED BUSINESS INTERRUPTION AT OUR FACILITIES COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE IMPACT ON OPERATING RESULTS. Our results of operations are dependent in large part upon our ability to produce and deliver products promptly upon receipt of orders and to provide prompt and efficient service to our customers. Any disruption of our day-to-day operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, customer relations and profitability. Our Kokkola, Finland facility is the primary refining and production facility for our Advanced Materials products. The GTL smelter in the DRC is a primary source for our cobalt raw material feed. These facilities are critical to our business, and a fire, flood, earthquake or other disaster or condition that damaged or destroyed any of these facilities could disable them. Any such damage to, or other condition significantly interfering with the operation of these facilities, such as an interruption of our supply lines, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our insurance coverage 11 Table of Contents may not be adequate to fully cover these potential risks. In addition, our insurance coverage may become more restrictive and/or increasingly costly, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable cost or at all. WE ARE AT RISK AS A RESULT OF CURRENT CIRCUMSTANCES AND DEVELOPMENTS REGARDING THE DRC. A substantial amount of our supply of cobalt is sourced from the DRC, a nation that has historically experienced outbreaks of political instability, changes in national and local leadership and financial crisis. The global economic and financial market crisis along with the recent decline in metal prices has impacted the financial condition of the DRC. These factors heighten the risk of changes in the national and local policy towards investors, which, in turn, could result in modification of concessions or contracts, imposition of new and/or retroactive taxes and assessment of penalties, denial of permits or permit renewals or expropriation of assets. GTL has experienced an increase in claims by DRC national and local government agencies for additional taxes and customs duties and we cannot predict whether GTL will receive additional claims in the future. Furthermore, if additional claims are received, we cannot predict whether such additional claims will be successful, or, if successful, whether such claims would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Private equity groups or hedge funds have purchased distressed debt of the DRC and have taken legal actions to attempt to collect this debt from the DRC or state-owned entities such as Gécamines, which is one of our joint venture partners in GTL. If successful, these efforts and any similar efforts in the future could further damage the financial condition and undermine the stability of the DRC or its state-owned entities and potentially threaten our supply of unrefined cobalt. If that were to occur, such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. WE ARE AT RISK FROM UNCERTAINTIES IN THE SUPPLY OF UNREFINED COBALT, WHICH IS OUR PRIMARY RAW MATERIAL. There are a limited number of supply sources for unrefined cobalt. Production problems or political or civil instability in supplier countries, primarily the DRC, Finland and Russia, have from time to time affected and may in the future affect the market price and supply of unrefined cobalt. In particular, political and civil instability and unexpected adverse changes in laws or regulatory requirements, including with respect to export duties and quotas, may affect the availability of raw materials from the DRC. If a substantial interruption should occur in the supply of unrefined cobalt from the DRC or elsewhere, we may not be able to obtain as much unrefined cobalt from other sources as would be necessary to satisfy our requirements at prices comparable to our current arrangements and our results of operations could be adversely impacted. WE ARE AT RISK FROM FLUCTUATIONS IN THE PRICE OF COBALT AND OTHER RAW MATERIALS. Unrefined cobalt is the principal raw material we use in manufacturing Advanced Materials products, and the cost of cobalt fluctuates due to changes in the reference price caused by actual or perceived changes in supply and demand, and changes in availability from suppliers. Fluctuations in the price of cobalt have been significant in the past and we believe price fluctuations are likely to occur in the future. Our ability to pass increases in raw material costs through to our customers by increasing the selling prices of our products is an important factor in our business. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain an appropriate differential at all times. We may be required under U.S. GAAP accounting rules to write down the carrying value of our inventory when cobalt and other raw material prices decrease. Declines in the selling prices of our finished products, which can result from decreases in the reference price of cobalt or other factors, can result in the Company’s inventory carrying value being written down to a lower market value, resulting in a charge against inventory that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 12 Table of Contents WE INTEND TO CONTINUE TO SEEK ADDITIONAL ACQUISITIONS, BUT WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO IDENTIFY OR COMPLETE TRANSACTIONS, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR STRATEGY. Our strategy anticipates growth through future acquisitions. However, our ability to identify and consummate any future acquisitions on terms that are favorable to us may be limited by the number of attractive acquisition targets, internal demands on our resources and our ability to obtain financing. Our success in integrating newly acquired businesses will depend upon our ability to retain key personnel, avoid diversion of management’s attention from operational matters, and integrate general and administrative services and key information processing systems. In addition, future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional debt, costs and contingent liabilities. Integration of acquired operations may take longer, or be more costly or disruptive to our business, than originally anticipated, and it is also possible that expected synergies from future acquisitions may not materialize. We also may incur costs and divert management attention with regard to potential acquisitions that are never consummated. There may be liabilities of the acquired companies that we fail to or are unable to discover during the due diligence investigation and for which we, as a successor owner, may be responsible. Indemnities and warranties obtained from the seller may not fully cover the liabilities due to limitations in scope, amount or duration, financial limitations of the indemnitor or warrantor or other reasons. WE ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS ARISING FROM UNCERTAINTY IN WORLDWIDE ECONOMIC CONDITIONS. The recent global economic downturn caused, among other things, a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, and lower business spending, all of which had a negative effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity during 2009. Many of our customers, distributors and suppliers were negatively affected by the current economic downturn, which in turn negatively impacted us. There currently is uncertainty regarding global economic conditions and the existence and rate of any economic recovery. This uncertainty may have an adverse effect on the general level of economic activity in industries and markets in which we and our customers operate, which may in turn have a negative effect on us. While we saw signs of an economic recovery in a number of markets in 2010, certain markets such as parts of Europe continue to experience weakened or uncertain economic conditions. Some of our customers, distributors and suppliers may be negatively impacted by these conditions which could lead to reduced demand for our products, reduced gross margins, and increased payment delays or defaults. The strength or duration of recovery in the remaining markets remains uncertain. If this uncertainty continues or if economic conditions deteriorate, our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity could be materially adversely affected. We are limited in our ability to reduce costs to offset the results of a prolonged or severe economic downturn in light of certain fixed costs associated with our operations. DETERIORATION OF THE GLOBAL ECONOMY COULD RESULT IN FUTURE GOODWILL OR INTANGIBLE ASSET IMPAIRMENTS. Deterioration in the global economy also may impact the valuation of certain long-lived or intangible assets that are subject to impairment testing, potentially resulting in impairment charges that may be material to our financial condition or results of operations. As of December 31, 2010, we have $306.9 million of goodwill and $153.4 million of intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet. We perform impairment tests of our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets annually and more often if indicators of impairment exist. We use a number of estimates and assumptions in calculating the estimated fair values of assets in our impairment testing, including future operating cash flow assumptions, future growth rates, future cobalt price assumptions and the weighted average cost of capital. Factors that could trigger an impairment test outside of the required annual review include the following: • significant underperformance relative to projected operating results; • significant changes in estimates of future cash flows from operations; 13 Table of Contents • significant changes in discount rates used in our impairment testing; • market capitalization deterioration; or • significant negative industry or economic trends. Changes in our assumptions and estimates, or weakness or deterioration in the economy, could materially affect the goodwill and intangible asset impairment tests. If any of these factors deteriorate, we may be required to recognize goodwill and/or intangible asset impairment charges that may be material to our financial condition or results of operations. THE LEVEL OF RETURNS ON PENSION PLAN ASSETS AND CHANGES IN THE ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS USED COULD AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND CASH FLOWS IN FUTURE PERIODS. Our operating results may be positively or negatively impacted by the amount of expense we record for our defined benefit pension plans. U.S. GAAP requires that we calculate pension expense using actuarial valuations, which are dependent upon our various assumptions; including estimates of expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, discount rates for future payment obligations, and the expected rate of increase in future compensation levels. Our pension expense and funding requirements also may be affected by our actual return on plan assets, and by legislation and other government regulatory actions. Changes in returns on pension plan assets and actuarial assumptions could lead to variability in operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. WE DO BUSINESS WITH THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT AND AS A RESULT ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS. U.S. Government contracts are subject to specific regulations. For example, we must comply with the Federal Acquisition Regulation (“FAR”), the Truth in Negotiations Act, the Cost Accounting Standards (“CAS”), the Service Contract Act and Department of Defense security regulations. We must also comply with various other government regulations and requirements as well as various statutes related to employment practices, environmental protection, recordkeeping and accounting. These laws impact how we transact business with our governmental clients and, in some instances, impose significant costs on our business operations. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations, requirements or statutes, our existing government contracts could be terminated, and we could be temporarily suspended or even debarred from government contracting or subcontracting. We also run the risk of the impact of government audits, investigations and proceedings. For example, government agencies such as the U.S. Defense Contract Audit Agency (the “DCAA”) routinely review and audit government contractors. The U.S. Government, including the DCAA, audits and reviews our performance on contracts, pricing practices, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. The DCAA reviews a contractor’s internal control systems and policies, including the contractor’s purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems, and the contractor’s compliance with such policies. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, while such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. Despite the fact that we take precautions to prevent and deter fraud, misconduct or other non-compliance, we face the risk that our employees, partners or subcontractors may engage in such activities. If any of these agencies determine that a rule or regulation has been violated, a variety of penalties can be imposed, including criminal and civil penalties, all of which would harm our reputation with the government or even debar us from future government activities. The DCAA has the authority to review how we have accounted for cost under the FAR and CAS, and if they believe that we have engaged in inappropriate accounting or other activities, payments to us may be disallowed. If one or more of our government contracts are terminated for any reason including for convenience, if we are suspended or debarred from government contract work, or if payment of our cost is disallowed, we could suffer 14 Table of Contents a significant reduction in expected revenue and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. CONTRACTS WITH THE U.S. GOVERNMENT ARE SUBJECT TO UNCERTAIN LEVELS OF FUNDING, MODIFICATION DUE TO CHANGES IN CUSTOMER PRIORITIES AND POTENTIAL TERMINATION. The funding of U.S. Government programs is subject to congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes. For certain programs, Congress appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may extend over several fiscal years. Consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially and additional funds are committed only as Congress makes further appropriations. We cannot predict the extent to which total funding and/or funding for individual programs will be included, increased or reduced as part of the 2011 and subsequent budgets ultimately approved by Congress or included in the scope of separate supplemental appropriations. In addition to changes in funding priorities, other factors such as U.S. economic circumstances, economic plans adopted by the U.S. Government, and pressures on the federal budget could also adversely affect the total funding and/or funding for individual programs. In the event that appropriations for one or more of our or our customers’ programs becomes unavailable, or is reduced or delayed, our contract or subcontract under such program may be terminated or adjusted by the U.S. Government, which could have a material adverse effect on our future sales under such program. We also cannot predict the impact of potential changes in priorities due to military transformation and planning and/or the nature of war-related activity on existing, follow-on or replacement programs. A shift of government priorities to programs in which we do not participate and/or reductions in funding for or the termination of programs in which we do participate, unless offset by other programs and opportunities, could have a material adverse effect on our results or bid prospects from this portion of our Battery Technologies business. In addition, the U.S. Government generally has the ability to terminate contracts, in whole or in part, without prior notice, for convenience or for default based on performance. In the event of termination for the government’s convenience, contractors are entitled to reimbursement for allowable costs and profits on authorized work performed through the date of termination. Termination resulting from our default can expose us to liability and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for contracts. CHANGES IN EFFECTIVE TAX RATES OR ADVERSE OUTCOMES RESULTING FROM EXAMINATION OF OUR INCOME TAX RETURNS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION OR OPERATING RESULTS. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our worldwide provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. For example, our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by: • earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates; • changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; • the timing and amount of earnings of foreign subsidiaries that we repatriate to the United States; or • changes in the relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations, principles and interpretations. We are subject to tax audits in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income tax against us. The final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations in the period or periods for which that determination is made. 15 Table of Contents THE MAJORITY OF OUR OPERATIONS ARE OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES, WHICH SUBJECTS US TO RISKS THAT MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS. Our business is subject to risks related to the differing legal and regulatory requirements and the social, political and economic conditions of many jurisdictions. In addition to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, risks inherent in international operations include the following: • potential supply disruptions as a result of political instability, civil unrest or labor difficulties in countries in which we have operations, especially the DRC and surrounding countries; • agreements may be difficult to enforce, may be subject to government renegotiation, and receivables difficult to collect through a foreign country’s legal system; • customers in certain regions may have longer payment cycles; • foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign income, impose tariffs or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade, investment or repatriation of monies, including currency exchange controls; • unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements may occur, including with respect to labor, taxation, royalties, divestment, imports, exports, trade regulations, currency and environmental matters; and • having to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel or having to enforce the judgment of a foreign court or arbitration panel against a sovereign nation within its own territory. Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed in differing legal, regulatory, economic, social and political conditions. We cannot assure you that we will implement policies and strategies that will be effective in each location where we do business. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that one or more of the foregoing factors will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We engage in business in certain countries where the risk of public sector corruption and bribery is high. We have implemented policies and procedures and conducted employee training to assure that our operations are in compliance with anti-bribery laws. If our compliance actions fail, a violation of anti-bribery laws could result in serious penalties, including criminal and civil sanctions. Such sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our business as a whole. THE MAJORITY OF OUR CASH IS GENERATED AND HELD OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES. THE FAILURE TO MAINTAIN A LEVEL OF CASH SUFFICIENT TO ADDRESS OUR CASH REQUIREMENTS IN THE UNITED STATES COULD AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND CASH FLOWS IN FUTURE PERIODS. As of December 31, 2010, 87% of our cash and cash equivalents were held outside the United States. If a substantial amount of cash were required in the United States for debt repayment, capital expenditures or other special initiatives including future acquisitions, we may be required to repatriate funds to the United States or otherwise finance the desired activity. If funds are repatriated to the United States, they could be subject to additional taxation, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity. WE MAINTAIN CASH BALANCES IN U.S. AND FOREIGN FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR LIQUIDITY. While we monitor the financial institutions with which we maintain accounts, we may not be able to recover our funds in the event that a financial institution fails. As a result, this could adversely affect our ability to fund normal operations or capital expenditures. 16 Table of Contents WE ARE EXPOSED TO FLUCTUATIONS IN FOREIGN EXCHANGE RATES, WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS. In addition to the United States, we have manufacturing and other facilities in Africa, Canada, Europe and Asia-Pacific. Although a significant portion of our raw material purchases and product sales are transacted in U.S. dollars, liabilities for non-U.S. operating expenses and income taxes are denominated in local currencies. Many of our foreign operating subsidiaries use the local currency as their functional currency. These include, among others, the European Union Euro, Taiwanese Dollar, Singapore Dollar, Malaysian Ringgit, British Pound Sterling, Japanese Yen, Chinese Renminbi and the Canadian Dollar. In these circumstances, the financial condition and results of operations of our foreign operating subsidiaries are reported in the relevant functional currency and then translated to U.S. dollars at the applicable currency exchange rate for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. Changes in exchange rates between these foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar may adversely affect the recorded levels of our assets and liabilities because foreign assets and liabilities, as well as results of operations, that are translated into U.S. dollars for presentation in our financial statements could result in exchange losses. In addition to currency translation risks, we incur currency transaction risk whenever we enter into either a purchase or sales transaction using a currency other than the functional currency of the transacting entity. WE ARE SUBJECT TO STRINGENT ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION AND MAY INCUR UNANTICIPATED COSTS OR LIABILITIES ARISING OUT OF ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS. We are subject to stringent laws and regulations relating to the storage, handling, disposal, emission and discharge of materials into the environment, and we have expended, and may be required to expend in the future, substantial funds for compliance with such laws and regulations. In addition, we may from time to time be subjected to claims for personal injury, property damages or natural resource damages made by third parties or regulators. Our annual environmental compliance costs were $11.1 million in 2010. In addition, we made capital expenditures of approximately $1.2 million in 2010 in connection with environmental compliance. As of December 31, 2010, we had reserves of $2.8 million for environmental liabilities. However, given the many uncertainties involved in assessing liability for environmental claims, our current reserves may prove to be insufficient. In addition, our current reserves are based only on known sites and the known contamination on those sites. It is possible that additional remediation sites will be identified in the future or that unknown contamination at previously identified sites will be discovered. This could require us to make additional expenditures for environmental remediation or could result in exposure to claims in the future. CHANGES IN ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH AND SAFETY REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS COULD AFFECT SALES OF OUR PRODUCTS. New or revised governmental regulations relating to health, safety and the environment may affect demand for our products. For example, the European Union’s REACH legislation, which has established a new system to register and evaluate chemicals manufactured in, or imported to, the European Union and requires additional testing, documentation and risk assessments for the chemical industry, could affect our ability to sell certain products. Such new or revised regulations may result in heightened concerns about the chemicals involved and in additional requirements being placed on the production, handling, or labeling of the chemicals and may increase the cost of producing them and/or limit the use of such chemicals or products containing such chemicals, which could lead to a decrease in demand. As a result of these regulations, customers may avoid purchasing some products in favor of perceived “greener,” less hazardous or less costly alternatives which could adversely affect sales of our products. Additional new regulations may require us to incur significant additional compliance costs. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO RESPOND EFFECTIVELY TO TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES IN OUR INDUSTRY OR IN OUR CUSTOMERS’ PRODUCTS. Our future business success will depend in part upon our ability to maintain and enhance our technological capabilities, develop and market products and applications that meet changing customer needs and 17 Table of Contents successfully anticipate or respond to technological changes on a cost-effective and timely basis. Our inability to anticipate, respond to or utilize changing technologies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Moreover, technological and other changes in our customers’ products or processes may render some of our products unnecessary, which would reduce the demand for those products. In addition, technical advances by competitors may lead to production of less expensive or more effective products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO ADEQUATELY PROTECT OR ENFORCE OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS, WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION OR OPERATING RESULTS. We rely on U.S. and foreign patents and trade secrets to protect our intellectual property. We attempt to protect and restrict access to our trade secrets and proprietary information, but it may be possible for a third party to obtain our information and develop similar technologies. If a competitor infringes upon our patent or other intellectual property rights, enforcing those rights could be difficult, expensive and time-consuming, making the outcome uncertain. Even if we are successful, litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against challenge could be costly and could divert management’s attention. BECAUSE WE DEPEND ON SEVERAL LARGE CUSTOMERS FOR A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF OUR REVENUES, OUR OPERATING RESULTS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY ANY DISRUPTION OF OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH THESE CUSTOMERS OR ANY MATERIAL ADVERSE CHANGE IN THEIR BUSINESSES. We depend on several large customers for a significant portion of our business. Sales to Nichia Chemical Corporation represented approximately 14% of consolidated net sales in 2010. Sales to the top three customers in the Battery Technologies segment represented approximately 50% of Battery Technologies’ net sales in 2010. Any disruption in our relationships with our major customers, including any adverse modification of our agreements with them or their unwillingness or inability to perform their obligations under the agreements, could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, any material adverse change in the financial condition of any of our major customers could have similar adverse effects. WE OPERATE IN VERY COMPETITIVE INDUSTRIES, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR PROFITABILITY. We have many competitors. Some of our principal competitors have greater financial and other resources and greater brand recognition than we have. Accordingly, these competitors may be better able to withstand changes in conditions within the industries in which we operate and may have significantly greater operating and financial flexibility than we do. As a result of the competitive environment in the markets in which we operate, we currently face and will continue to face pressure on the sales prices of our products from competitors and large customers. With these pricing pressures, we may experience future reductions in the profit margins on our sales, or may be unable to pass on future raw material price or operating cost increases to our customers, which also would reduce profit margins. As we have few long-term commitments from our customers, this competitive environment could give rise to a sudden loss of business. INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION BY COMPETITORS MAY LEAD TO INCREASED COMPETITION AND MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS. There has been a trend toward consolidation in our industries. We believe that industry consolidation among our peers may result in stronger competitors with greater financial and other resources that are better able to compete for customers. This could lead to more variability in operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 18 Table of Contents FAILURE TO RETAIN AND RECRUIT KEY PERSONNEL WOULD HARM OUR ABILITY TO MEET KEY OBJECTIVES. Our key personnel are critical to the management and direction of our businesses. Our future success depends, in large part, on our ability to retain key personnel and other capable management personnel. It is particularly important that we maintain our senior management group that is responsible for implementing our strategic transformation. If we were not able to attract and retain talented personnel and replace key personnel should the need arise, the inability could make it difficult to meet key objectives and disrupt the operations of our businesses. OUR STOCK PRICE MAY CONTINUE TO BE VOLATILE. Historically, our common stock has experienced substantial price volatility, particularly as a result of changes in metal prices, primarily unrefined cobalt, which is our primary raw material in the Advanced Materials segment. In addition, the stock market has experienced and continues to experience significant price and volume volatility that has often been unrelated to our operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. THE INSURANCE THAT WE MAINTAIN MAY NOT FULLY COVER ALL POTENTIAL EXPOSURES. We maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance but such insurance may not cover all risks associated with the hazards of our business and is subject to limitations, including deductibles and maximum liabilities covered. We may incur losses beyond the limits, or outside the coverage, of our insurance policies, including liabilities for environmental remediation. We are potentially at risk if one or more of our insurance carriers fail. Additionally, severe disruptions in the domestic and global financial markets could adversely impact the ratings and survival of some insurers. Future downgrades in the ratings of enough insurers could adversely impact both the availability of appropriate insurance coverage and its cost. In the future, we may not be able to obtain coverage at current levels, and our premiums may increase significantly on coverage that we maintain. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has received no written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of its 2010 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 