ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are some of the risks and uncertainties that could negatively affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects. These risks, as well as the risks described in Item 1 under the headings “Competition,” “Government Regulation,” “Legislative Developments,” “Environmental Matters,” and “Federal Income Tax Information” and in Item 7 under the heading “Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” should be carefully considered before making an investment decision regarding the Company. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company, and there may be additional risks that the Company does not presently know of or that the Company currently considers not likely to have a significant impact. If any of the events underlying the following risks actually occurred, the Company’s business, financial condition and operating results could suffer, and the trading price of its common stock could decline. 17 The Company has recently incurred additional debt obligations and leverage may remain at higher levels. As of December 31, 2010, the Company had approximately $1.4 billion of outstanding indebtedness. The Company’s leverage ratio [debt divided by (debt plus stockholders’ equity less intangible assets plus accumulated depreciation)] increased from 46.5% at December 31, 2009 to 51.7% at December 31, 2010. Covenants under the Unsecured Credit Facility and the indenture governing the Company’s senior notes permit the Company to incur substantial additional debt, and the Company may borrow additional funds, which may include secured borrowings. A high level of indebtedness would require the Company to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to the payment of indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available to implement the Company’s business strategy and to make distributions to stockholders. A high level of indebtedness could also: • Potentially limit the Company’s ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions in the event of a downturn in general economic conditions or in the real estate and/or healthcare industries; • Potentially impair the Company’s ability to obtain additional financing for its business strategy; and • Potentially downgrade the rating of the Company’s debt securities by one or more rating agencies, which would increase the costs of borrowing under the Unsecured Credit Facility and the cost of issuance of new debt securities, among other things. In addition, from time to time the Company mortgages properties to secure payment of indebtedness. If the Company is unable to meet its mortgage payments, then the encumbered properties could be foreclosed upon or transferred to the mortgagee with a consequent loss of income and asset value. A foreclosure on one or more of our properties could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The unavailability of equity and debt capital, volatility in the credit markets, increases in interest rates, or changes in the Company’s debt ratings could have an adverse effect on the Company’s ability to meet its debt payments, make dividend payments to stockholders or engage in acquisition and development activity. A REIT is required by IRS regulations to make dividend distributions, thereby retaining less of its capital for growth. As a result, a REIT typically grows through steady investments of new capital in real estate assets. Presently, the Company has sufficient capital availability. However, there may be times when the Company will have limited access to capital from the equity and/or debt markets. Changes in the Company’s debt ratings could have a material adverse effect on its interest costs and financing sources. The Company’s debt rating can be materially influenced by a number of factors including, but not limited to, acquisitions, investment decisions, and capital management activities. In recent years, the capital and credit markets have experienced volatility and at times have limited the availability of funds. The Company’s ability to access the capital and credit markets may be limited by these or other factors, which could have an impact on its ability to refinance maturing debt, fund dividend payments and operations, acquire healthcare properties and complete construction projects. If the Company is unable to refinance or extend principal payments due at maturity of its various debt instruments, its cash flow may not be sufficient to repay maturing debt and, consequently, make dividend payments to stockholders. If the Company defaults in paying any of its debts or honoring its debt covenants, it could experience cross-defaults among debt instruments, the debts could be accelerated and the Company could be forced to liquidate assets for less than the values it would otherwise receive. The Company is exposed to increases in interest rates, which could adversely impact its ability to refinance existing debt, sell assets or engage in acquisition and development activity. The Company receives a significant portion of its revenues by leasing its assets under long-term leases in which the rental rate is generally fixed, subject to annual rent escalators. A significant portion of the Company’s debt may be from time to time subject to floating rates, based on LIBOR or other indices. The generally fixed nature of revenues and the variable rate of certain debt obligations create interest rate risk for the Company. Increases in interest rates could make the financing of any acquisition or investment activity more costly. Rising interest rates could limit the Company’s ability to refinance existing debt when it matures or cause the Company to pay higher rates upon refinancing. An increase in interest rates also could have the effect of reducing the amounts that third parties might be willing to pay for real estate assets, which could limit the Company’s ability to sell assets at times when it might be advantageous to do so. The Company may be required to sell certain properties to tenants or sponsors whose leases or financial support agreements provide for options to purchase. The Company may not be able to reinvest the proceeds from sale at rates of return equal to the return received on the properties sold. At December 31, 2010, the Company had approximately $91.3 million in real estate properties, or 3.5% of the Company real estate property investments, that are subject to exercisable purchase options held by lessees or financial support agreement sponsors that had not been exercised. Other properties have purchase options that will become exercisable in the future. The exercise of these purchase 18 options exposes the Company to reinvestment risk. Certain properties subject to purchase options are producing returns above the rates of return the Company expects to achieve with new investments. If the Company is unable to reinvest the proceeds of sale at rates of return equal to the return received on the properties that are sold, it may experience a decline in lease revenues and a corresponding material adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial condition, the Company’s ability to make distributions to its stockholders, and the market price of its common stock. The Company is subject to risks associated with the development of properties. The Company is subject to certain risks associated with the development of properties including the following: • The construction of properties generally requires various government and other approvals that may not be received when expected, or at all, which could delay or preclude commencement of construction; • Development opportunities that the Company pursued but later abandoned could result in the expensing of pursuit costs, which could impact the Company’s results of operations; • Construction costs could exceed original estimates, which could impact the building’s profitability to the Company; • Operating expenses could be higher than forecasted; • Time required to initiate and complete the construction of a property and lease up a completed development property may be greater than originally anticipated, thereby adversely affecting the Company’s cash flow and liquidity; • Occupancy rates and rents of a completed development property may not be sufficient to make the property profitable to the Company; and • Favorable capital sources to fund the Company’s development activities may not be available when needed. From time to time the Company may make material acquisitions and developments that may involve the expenditure of significant funds and may be unsuccessful in operating new and existing real estate properties. The Company regularly pursues potential transactions to acquire or develop additional assets in order to grow stockholder value and believes that there are currently numerous acquisition and development opportunities for the Company to invest in additional medical office and other outpatient-related facilities. Future acquisitions could require the Company to issue equity securities, incur debt, contingent liabilities or amortize expenses related to other intangible assets, any of which could adversely impact the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. In addition, equity or debt financing required for such acquisitions may not be available at times or at favorable rates. The Company’s acquired, developed and existing real estate properties may not perform in accordance with management’s expectations because of many factors including the following: • The Company’s purchase price for acquired facilities may be based upon a series of market or building-specific judgments which may be incorrect; • The costs of any maintenance or improvements for properties might exceed budgeted costs; • The Company may incur unexpected costs in the acquisition, construction or maintenance of real estate assets that could impact its expected returns on such assets; and • Leasing of real estate properties may not occur within expected timeframes or at expected rental rates. Further, the Company can give no assurance that acquisition and development opportunities that will meet management’s investment criteria will be available when needed or anticipated. The Company may incur impairment charges on its real estate properties or other assets. The Company performs an annual impairment review on its real estate properties in the third quarter of every fiscal year. In addition, the Company assesses the potential for impairment of identifiable intangible assets and long-lived assets, including real estate properties, whenever events occur or a change in circumstances indicates that the recorded value might not be fully recoverable. At some 19 future date, the Company may determine that an impairment has occurred in the value of one or more of its real estate properties or other assets. In such an event, the Company may be required to recognize an impairment loss which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s long-term master leases and financial support agreements may expire and not be extended. Long-term master leases and financial support agreements that are expiring may not be extended. To the extent these properties have vacancies or subleases at lower rates upon expiration, income may decline if the Company is not able to re-let the properties at rental rates that are as high as the former rates. Covenants in the Company’s debt instruments limit its operational flexibility, and a breach of these covenants could materially affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The terms of the Unsecured Credit Facility, the indentures governing the Company’s outstanding senior notes and other debt instruments that the Company may enter into in the future are subject to customary financial and operational covenants. The Company’s continued ability to incur debt and operate its business is subject to compliance with these covenants, which limit operational flexibility. Breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under applicable debt instruments, even if payment obligations are satisfied. Financial and other covenants that limit the Company’s operational flexibility, as well as defaults resulting from a breach of any of these covenants in its debt instruments, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s business operations may not generate the cash needed to service debt or fund planned capital expenditures. The Company’s ability to make payments on its indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on its ability to generate cash in the future. There can be no assurance that the Company’s business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available in amounts sufficient to enable the Company to pay its indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. The Company’s revenues depend on the ability of its tenants and sponsors under its leases and financial support agreements to generate sufficient income from their operations to make loan, rent and support payments to the Company. The Company’s revenues are subject to the financial strength of its tenants and sponsors. The Company has no operational control over the business of these tenants and sponsors who face a wide range of economic, competitive, government reimbursement and regulatory pressures and constraints. The slowdown in the economy, decline in the availability of financing from the capital markets, and changes in healthcare regulations have affected, or may in the future adversely affect, the businesses of the Company’s tenants and sponsors to varying degrees. Such conditions may further impact such tenants’ and sponsors’ abilities to meet their obligations to the Company and, in certain cases, could lead to restructurings, disruptions, or bankruptcies of such tenants and sponsors. In turn, these conditions could adversely affect the Company’s revenues and could increase allowances for losses and result in impairment charges, which could decrease net income attributable to common stockholders and equity, and reduce cash flows from operations. If a healthcare tenant loses its licensure or certification, becomes unable to provide healthcare services, cannot meet its financial obligations to the Company or otherwise vacates a facility, the Company would have to obtain another tenant for the affected facility. If the Company loses a tenant or sponsor and is unable to attract another healthcare provider on a timely basis and on acceptable terms, the Company’s cash flows and results of operations could suffer. In addition, many of the Company’s properties are special purpose healthcare facilities that may not be easily adaptable to other uses. Transfers of operations of healthcare facilities are often subject to regulatory approvals not required for transfers of other types of commercial operations and real estate. Many of the Company’s properties are held under long-term ground leases. These ground leases contain provisions that may limit the Company’s ability to lease, sell, or finance these properties. The Company’s ground lease agreements with hospitals and health systems typically contain restrictions that limit building occupancy to physicians on the medical staff of an affiliated hospital and prohibit physician tenants from providing services that compete with the services provided by the affiliated hospital. Ground leases may also contain consent requirements or other restrictions on sale or assignment of the Company’s leasehold interest, including rights of first offer and first refusal in favor of the lessor. These ground lease provisions may limit the Company’s ability to lease, sell, or obtain mortgage financing secured by such properties which, in turn, could adversely affect the income from operations or the proceeds received from a sale. As a ground lessee, the Company is also exposed to the risk of reversion of the property upon expiration of the ground lease term, or an earlier breach by the Company of the ground lease, which may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, the Company’s ability to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders and the trading price of the Company’s common stock. 20 If the Company is unable to promptly re-let its properties, if the rates upon such re-letting are significantly lower than expected or if the Company is required to undertake significant capital expenditures to attract new tenants, then the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. A portion of the Company’s leases will mature over the course of any year. The Company may not be able to re-let space on terms that are favorable to the Company or at all. Further, the Company may be required to make significant capital expenditures to renovate or reconfigure space to attract new tenants. If it is unable to promptly re-let its properties, if the rates upon such re-letting are significantly lower than expected, or if the Company is required to undertake significant capital expenditures in connection with re-letting units, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, the Company’s ability to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders and the trading price of the Company’s common stock may be materially and adversely affected. Certain of the Company’s properties are special purpose healthcare facilities and may not be easily adaptable to other uses. Some of the Company’s properties are specialized medical facilities. If the Company or the Company’s tenants terminate the leases for these properties or the Company’s tenants lose their regulatory authority to operate such properties, the Company may not be able to locate suitable replacement tenants to lease the properties for their specialized uses. Alternatively, the Company may be required to spend substantial amounts to adapt the properties to other uses. Any loss of revenues and/or additional capital expenditures occurring as a result may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, the Company’s ability to make distributions to its stockholders, and the market price of the Company’s common stock. The market price of the Company’s stock may be affected adversely by changes in the Company’s dividend policy. The ability of the Company to pay dividends is dependent upon its ability to maintain funds from operations and cash flow, to make accretive new investments and to access capital. A failure to maintain dividend payments at current levels could result in a reduction of the market price of the Company’s stock. Adverse trends in the healthcare service industry may negatively affect the Company’s lease revenues and the values of its investments. The healthcare service industry may be affected by the following: • Regulatory and government reimbursement uncertainty resulting from the Health Reform Law; • Federal and state government focus on reducing deficits while also providing more public health benefits to address the expanding uninsured and senior populations and the forthcoming insolvency of the Medicare Trust Fund Part A; • Reductions in the growth of Medicare and Medicaid payment rates, to be offset, in whole or in part, by higher revenue from an increase in the insured population; • Pressure from private and governmental payors on healthcare providers to contain costs while increasing patients’ access to quality healthcare services; • Trends in the method of delivery of healthcare services; • Competition among healthcare providers; • Reimbursement rates from government and commercial payors, high uncompensated care expense and limited admissions growth pressuring operating profit margins in an uncertain economy; • Investment losses; • Availability of capital; • Credit downgrades; • Liability insurance expense; and • Scrutiny and formal investigations by federal and state authorities. 21 These changes, among others, can adversely affect the economic performance of some or all of the tenants and sponsors who provide financial support to the Company’s investments and, in turn, negatively affect the lease revenues and the value of the Company’s property investments. The Company is exposed to risks associated with entering new geographic markets. The Company’s acquisition and development activities may involve entering geographic markets where the Company has not previously had a presence. The construction and/or acquisition of properties in new geographic areas involves risks, including the risk that the property will not perform as anticipated and the risk that any actual costs for site development and improvements identified in the pre-construction or pre-acquisition due diligence process will exceed estimates. There is, and it is expected that there will continue to be, significant competition for investment opportunities that meet management’s investment criteria, as well as risks associated with obtaining financing for acquisition activities, if necessary. The Company may experience uninsured or underinsured losses related to casualty or liability. The Company generally requires its tenants to maintain comprehensive liability and property insurance that covers the Company as well as the tenants. The Company also carries comprehensive liability insurance and property insurance covering its owned and managed properties. In addition, tenants under long-term master leases are required to carry property insurance covering the Company’s interest in the buildings. Some types of losses, however, either may be uninsurable or too expensive to insure against. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, the Company could lose all or a portion of the capital it has invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. In such an event, the Company might remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligation related to the property. The Company cannot give assurance that material losses in excess of insurance proceeds will not occur in the future. Failure to maintain its status as a REIT, even in one taxable year, could cause the Company to reduce its dividends dramatically. The Company intends to qualify at all times as a REIT under the Code. If in any taxable year the Company does not qualify as a REIT, it would be taxed as a corporation. As a result, the Company could not deduct its distributions to the stockholders in computing its taxable income. Depending upon the circumstances, a REIT that loses its qualification in one year may not be eligible to re-qualify during the four succeeding years. Further, certain transactions or other events could lead to the Company being taxed at rates ranging from four to 100 percent on certain income or gains. For more information about the Company’s status as a REIT, see “Federal Income Tax Information” in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If lenders under the Unsecured Credit Facility fail to meet their funding commitments, the Company’s financial position would be negatively impacted. Access to external capital on favorable terms is critical to the Company’s success in growing and maintaining its portfolio. If financial institutions within the Unsecured Credit Facility were unwilling or unable to meet their respective funding commitments to the Company, any such failure would have a negative impact on the Company’s operations, financial condition and ability to meet its obligations, including the payment of dividends to stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 