Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces significant risks. These risks include those described below and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. Our business, financial condition and 8 Table of Contents results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. These risks should be read in conjunction with the other information in this report. THE RECENT GLOBAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MARKET CRISIS HAS HAD AND MAY CONTINUE TO HAVE A NEGATIVE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS. The recent global economic and financial market crisis has caused, among other things, a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, and lower business spending, all of which has had and may continue to have a negative effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Many of our customers, distributors and suppliers have been affected by the current economic conditions. Current or potential customers may be unable to fund purchases or may determine to reduce purchases or inventories or may cease to continue in business, which has led to and could continue to lead to reduced demand for our products, reduced gross margins, and increased customer payment delays or defaults. In addition, suppliers may not be able to supply us with needed raw materials on a timely basis, may increase prices or go out of business, which could result in our inability to meet customer demand or could affect our gross margins. We also are limited in our ability to reduce costs to offset the results of a prolonged or severe economic downturn in light of certain fixed costs associated with our operations. The timing and nature of any recovery in the global economic and financial markets remains uncertain, and there can be no assurance that market conditions will improve in the near future or that our results will not continue to be materially and adversely affected. Such conditions make it very difficult to forecast operating results, make business decisions and identify and address material business risks. CONTINUED OR FURTHER DETERIORATION OF THE ECONOMY COULD LEAD TO REDUCED EARNINGS AND COULD RESULT IN FUTURE GOODWILL IMPAIRMENTS. The weakness in the global economy and financial markets may also impact the valuation of certain long-lived or intangible assets that are subject to impairment testing, potentially resulting in impairment charges that may be material to our financial condition or results of operations. As of December 31, 2008, we have $268.7 million of goodwill and $84.8 million of intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet. We perform annual impairment tests of our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets and more often if indicators of impairment exist. During 2008, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $8.8 million to reduce the carrying amount of our goodwill to its estimated fair value based upon the results of our impairment test as of December 31, 2008, which was conducted in connection with preparation of our annual financial statements for the year ended on that date. In addition, in performing our annual intangible asset impairment testing during the fourth quarter of 2008, we determined that certain indefinite-lived trade names were impaired due to downward revisions in estimates of future revenue. As a result, we recorded an impairment loss of $0.2 million in 2008 relating to intangible assets. We use a number of estimates and assumptions in calculating the fair values of assets in our impairment testing, including future operating cash flow assumptions, future cobalt price assumptions and the weighted average cost of capital. Due to the recent general downturn in the economy and resulting increased uncertainty in forecasted future cash flows, we increased the company-specific risk factor component in our calculations of weighted average cost of capital. Factors that could trigger an impairment review outside of the required annual review include the following: • significant underperformance relative to projected operating results; • significant changes in estimates of future cash flows from ongoing operations and/or from future opportunities related to current license agreements; • significant changes in discount rates used in our impairment testing; • further market capitalization deterioration; • significant negative industry or economic trends. 9 Table of Contents Changes in these assumptions and estimates, or continued weakness or further deterioration in the economy, could materially affect the goodwill and intangible asset impairment tests. If any of these factors worsen, we may be required to recognize an additional goodwill and/or intangible asset impairment charge which may be material to our financial condition or results of operations. EXTENDED BUSINESS INTERRUPTION AT OUR FACILITIES COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE IMPACT ON OPERATING RESULTS. Our results of operations are dependent in large part upon our ability to produce and deliver products promptly upon receipt of orders and to provide prompt and efficient service to our customers. Any disruption of our day-to-day operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, customer relations and profitability. Our Kokkola, Finland facility is the primary refining and production facility for our Advanced Materials products. The GTL smelter in the DRC is the primary source for our cobalt raw material feed. Our Cleveland, Ohio facility serves as our corporate headquarters. These facilities are critical to our business, and a fire, flood, earthquake or other disaster or condition that damaged or destroyed any of these facilities could disable them. Any such damage to, or other condition significantly interfering with the operation of these facilities, such as an interruption of our supply lines, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to fully cover the potential risks described above. In addition, our insurance coverage may become more restrictive and/or increasingly costly, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable cost or at all. WE ARE AT RISK FROM UNCERTAINTIES IN THE SUPPLY OF UNREFINED COBALT, WHICH IS OUR PRIMARY RAW MATERIAL. There are a limited number of supply sources for unrefined cobalt. Production problems or political or civil instability in supplier countries, primarily the DRC, Finland and Russia, have from time to time affected and may in the future affect the market price and supply of unrefined cobalt. In particular, political and civil instability and unexpected adverse changes in laws or regulatory requirements, including with respect to export duties and quotas, may affect the availability of raw materials from the DRC. If a substantial interruption should occur in the supply of unrefined cobalt from the DRC or elsewhere, we may not be able to obtain as much unrefined cobalt from other sources as would be necessary to satisfy our requirements at prices comparable to our current arrangements and our operating results could be adversely impacted. WE ARE AT RISK FROM FLUCTUATIONS IN THE PRICE OF UNREFINED COBALT AND OTHER RAW MATERIALS. Unrefined cobalt is the principal raw material we use in manufacturing Advanced Materials products, and the cost of cobalt fluctuates due to changes in the reference price caused by actual or perceived changes in supply and demand, and changes in availability from suppliers. Fluctuations in the price of cobalt have been significant in the past and we believe price fluctuations are likely to occur in the future. Our ability to pass increases in raw material costs through to our customers by increasing the selling prices of our products is an important factor in our business. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain an appropriate differential at all times. We may be required under U.S. GAAP accounting rules to write down the carrying value of our inventory when cobalt and other raw material prices decrease. In periods of raw material metal price declines or declines in the selling prices of our finished products, inventory carrying values could exceed the amount we could realize on sale, resulting in a charge against inventory that could adversely affect our operating results. 10 Table of Contents THE MAJORITY OF OUR OPERATIONS ARE OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES, WHICH SUBJECTS US TO RISKS THAT MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS. Our business is subject to risks related to the differing legal and regulatory requirements and the social, political and economic conditions of many jurisdictions. In addition to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, risks inherent in international operations include the following: • potential supply disruptions as a result of political instability, civil unrest or labor difficulties in countries in which we have operations, especially the DRC and surrounding countries; • agreements may be difficult to enforce, may be subject to government renegotiation, and receivables difficult to collect through a foreign country’s legal system; • Customers in certain regions may have longer payment cycles; • foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign income, impose tariffs or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade or investment, including currency exchange controls; • general economic conditions in the countries in which we operate could have an adverse effect on our earnings from operations in those countries; • unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements may occur, including with respect to export duties and quotas; and • compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations may be difficult. Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed in differing legal, regulatory, economic, social and political conditions. We cannot assure you that we will implement policies and strategies that will be effective in each location where we do business. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that one or more of the foregoing factors will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. WE ARE UNDERGOING A STRATEGIC TRANSFORMATION, WHICH INTRODUCES UNCERTAINTIES REGARDING OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. As a result of changes to our strategic direction, we are currently in a transformational period in which we have made and may continue to make changes that could be material to our business, financial condition and results of operations. These changes have included the sale of our Nickel business and our 2007 Acquisitions, and our strategy includes growth through additional acquisitions. It is difficult to predict the impact of future changes on our business, financial condition or results of operations. WE INTEND TO CONTINUE TO SEEK ADDITIONAL ACQUISITIONS, BUT WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO IDENTIFY OR COMPLETE TRANSACTIONS, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR STRATEGY. Our strategy anticipates growth through future acquisitions. However, our ability to identify and consummate any future acquisitions on terms that are favorable to us may be limited by the number of attractive acquisition targets, internal demands on our resources and our ability to obtain financing. Our success in integrating newly acquired businesses will depend upon our ability to retain key personnel, avoid diversion of management’s attention from operational matters, and integrate general and administrative services and key information processing systems. In addition, future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional debt, costs and contingent liabilities. Integration of acquired operations may take longer, or be more costly or disruptive to our business, than originally anticipated, and it is also possible that expected synergies from future acquisitions may not materialize. We also may incur costs and divert management attention with regard to potential acquisitions that are never consummated. There may be liabilities of the acquired companies that we fail to or are unable to discover during the due diligence investigation and for which we, as a successor owner, may be responsible. Indemnities and warranties obtained from the seller may not fully cover the liabilities due to limitations in scope, amount or duration, financial limitations of the indemnitor or warrantor or other reasons. 11 Table of Contents WE ARE EXPOSED TO FLUCTUATIONS IN FOREIGN EXCHANGE RATES, WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS. We have manufacturing and other facilities in North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific and Africa, and we market our products worldwide. Although a significant portion of our raw material purchases and product sales are transacted in U.S. dollars, liabilities for non-U.S. operating expenses and income taxes are denominated in local currencies. In addition, fluctuations in exchange rates may affect product demand and may adversely affect the profitability in U.S. dollars of products provided by us in foreign markets where payment for our products is made in the local currency. Accordingly, fluctuations in currency rates (particularly the Euro) may affect our operating results. WE ARE SUBJECT TO STRINGENT ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION AND MAY INCUR UNANTICIPATED COSTS OR LIABILITIES ARISING OUT OF ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS. We are subject to stringent laws and regulations relating to the storage, handling, disposal, emission and discharge of materials into the environment, and we have expended, and may be required to expend in the future, substantial funds for compliance with such laws and regulations. In addition, we may from time to time be subjected to claims for personal injury, property damages or natural resource damages made by third parties or regulators. Our annual environmental compliance costs were $10.6 million in 2008. In addition, we made capital expenditures of approximately $3.3 million in 2008 in connection with environmental compliance. As of December 31, 2008, we had reserves of $3.4 million for environmental liabilities. However, given the many uncertainties involved in assessing liability for environmental claims, our current reserves may prove to be insufficient. In addition, our current reserves are based only on known sites and the known contamination on those sites. It is possible that additional remediation sites will be identified in the future or that unknown contamination at previously identified sites will be discovered. This could require us to make additional expenditures for environmental remediation or could result in exposure to claims in the future. CHANGES IN ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH AND SAFETY REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS COULD AFFECT SALES OF THE COMPANY’S PRODUCTS. New or revised governmental regulations relating to health, safety and the environment may affect demand for our products. For example, the European Union’s REACH legislation, which establishes a new system to register and evaluate chemicals manufactured in, or imported to, the European Union and requires additional testing, documentation and risk assessments for the chemical industry, could affect our ability to sell certain products. Such new or revised regulations may result in heightened concerns about the chemicals involved and in additional requirements being placed on the production, handling, or labeling of the chemicals and may increase the cost of producing them and/or limit the use of such chemicals or products containing such chemicals, which could lead to a decrease in demand. REACH likely will require us to incur significant additional compliance costs. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO RESPOND EFFECTIVELY TO TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES IN OUR INDUSTRY OR IN OUR CUSTOMERS’ PRODUCTS. Our future business success will depend in part upon our ability to maintain and enhance our technological capabilities, develop and market products and applications that meet changing customer needs and successfully anticipate or respond to technological changes on a cost-effective and timely basis. Our inability to anticipate, respond to or utilize changing technologies could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Moreover, technological and other changes in our customers’ products or processes may render some of our specialty chemicals unnecessary, which would reduce the demand for those chemicals. BECAUSE WE DEPEND ON SEVERAL LARGE CUSTOMERS FOR A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF OUR REVENUES, OUR OPERATING RESULTS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY ANY DISRUPTION OF OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH THESE CUSTOMERS OR ANY MATERIAL ADVERSE CHANGE IN THEIR BUSINESSES. We depend on several large customers for a significant portion of our business. In 2008, the top five customers accounted for 41% of net sales. Sales to Nichia Chemical Corporation represented approximately 22% of net sales in 12 Table of Contents 2008. Any disruption in our relationships with our major customers, including any adverse modification of our agreements with them or the unwillingness or inability of them to perform their obligations under the agreements, would adversely affect our operating results. In addition, any material adverse change in the financial condition of any of our major customers would have similar adverse effects. WE OPERATE IN VERY COMPETITIVE INDUSTRIES, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR PROFITABILITY. We have many competitors. Some of our principal competitors have greater financial and other resources and greater brand recognition than we have. Accordingly, these competitors may be better able to withstand changes in conditions within the industries in which we operate and may have significantly greater operating and financial flexibility than we do. As a result of the competitive environment in the markets in which we operate, we currently face and will continue to face pressure on the sales prices of our products from competitors and large customers. With these pricing pressures, we may experience future reductions in the profit margins on our sales, or may be unable to pass on future raw material price or operating cost increases to our customers, which also would reduce profit margins. Since we conduct our business mainly on a purchase order basis, with few long-term commitments from our customers, this competitive environment could give rise to a sudden loss of business. INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION BY COMPETITORS MAY LEAD TO INCREASED COMPETITION AND MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS. There has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets. We believe that industry consolidation among our peers may result in stronger competitors with greater financial and other resources that are better able to compete for customers. This could lead to more variability in operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. FAILURE TO RETAIN AND RECRUIT KEY PERSONNEL WOULD HARM OUR ABILITY TO MEET KEY OBJECTIVES. Our key personnel are critical to the management and direction of our businesses. Our future success depends, in large part, on our ability to retain key personnel and other capable management personnel. It is particularly important that we maintain our senior management group that is responsible for implementing our strategic transformation. If we were not able to attract and retain talented personnel and replace key personnel should the need arise, the inability could make it difficult to meet key objectives and disrupt the operations of our businesses. CHANGES IN EFFECTIVE TAX RATES OR ADVERSE OUTCOMES RESULTING FROM EXAMINATION OF OUR INCOME TAX RETURNS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our worldwide provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. For example, our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by • earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates • changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities • the timing and amount of earnings of foreign subsidiaries that we repatriate to the United States • changes in the relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations, principles and interpretations. We are subject to audit in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income tax against us. The final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our financial condition or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. 13 Table of Contents WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO ADEQUATELY PROTECT OR ENFORCE OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS, WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. We rely on U.S. and foreign patents and trade secrets to protect our intellectual property. We attempt to protect and restrict access to our trade secrets and proprietary information, but it may be possible for a third party to obtain our information and develop similar technologies. If a competitor infringes upon our patent or other intellectual property rights, enforcing those rights could be difficult, expensive and time-consuming, making the outcome uncertain. Even if we are successful, litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against challenge could be costly and could divert management’s attention. OUR STOCK PRICE MAY CONTINUE TO BE VOLATILE. Historically, our common stock has experienced substantial price volatility, particularly as a result of changes in metal prices, primarily unrefined cobalt, which is our primary raw material. In addition, the stock market has experienced and continues to experience significant price and volume volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of our Company. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. CONTINUING DISRUPTION IN THE CREDIT MARKETS MAY REDUCE AVAILABILITY UNDER OUR CREDIT AGREEMENT AND OUR ABILITY TO RAISE CAPITAL. Due to the current volatile state of the credit markets, there is risk that lenders, even those with strong balance sheets and sound lending practices, could fail to honor their legal commitments and obligations under existing credit commitments, including extending credit up to the maximum permitted by a credit facility, allowing access to additional credit features and otherwise accessing capital and/or honoring loan commitments. If our lenders fail to honor their legal commitments under our credit facility, it could be difficult in the current environment to replace our credit facility on similar terms. The failure of any of the lenders under our credit facility may impact our ability to fund our working capital needs or future acquisitions. In addition, continuing disruption in the credit markets may adversely affect our ability to raise capital for future acquisitions or other capital needs. WE MAINTAIN CASH BALANCES IN U.S. AND FOREIGN FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR LIQUIDITY. While we monitor the financial institutions with which we maintain accounts, we may not be able to recover our funds in the event that a financial institution fails. In addition, we may be limited in the amount and timing of funds to be repatriated from foreign financial institutions. As a result, this could adversely affect our ability to fund normal operations or capital expenditures. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has received no written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of its 2008 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 