Risk Factors.” The fiduciary of an IRA or of an employee benefit plan not subject to Title I of ERISA because it is a governmental or church plan or because it does not cover common law employees (a “Non-ERISA Plan”) should consider that such an IRA or Non-ERISA Plan may only make investments that are authorized by the appropriate governing documents, not prohibited under Section 4975 of the Code and permitted under applicable state law. Status of the Company under ERISA A prohibited transaction may occur if the assets of the Company are deemed to be assets of the investing Plans and “parties in interest” or “disqualified persons” as defined in ERISA and Section 4975 of the Code, respectively, deal with such assets. In certain circumstances where a Plan holds an interest in an entity, the assets of the entity are deemed to be Plan assets (the “look-through rule”). Under such circumstances, any person that exercises authority or control with respect to the management or disposition of such assets is a Plan fiduciary. Plan assets are not defined in ERISA or the Code, but the United States Department of Labor issued regulations in 1987 (the “Regulations”) that outline the circumstances under which a Plan’s interest in an entity will be subject to the look-through rule. The Regulations apply only to the purchase by a Plan of an “equity interest” in an entity, such as common stock or common shares of beneficial interest of a REIT. However, the Regulations provide an exception to the look-through rule for equity interests that are “publicly-offered securities.” Under the Regulations, a “publicly-offered security” is a security that is (i) freely transferable, (ii) part of a class of securities that is widely-held and (iii) either (a) part of a class of securities that is registered under section 12(b) or 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), or (b) sold to a Plan as part of an offering of securities to the public pursuant to an effective registration statement under 21 Table of Contents the Securities Act and the class of securities of which such security is a part is registered under the Exchange Act within 120 days (or such longer period allowed by the Securities and Exchange Commission) after the end of the fiscal year of the issuer during which the offering of such securities to the public occurred. Whether a security is considered “freely transferable” depends on the facts and circumstances of each case. Generally, if the security is part of an offering in which the minimum investment is $10,000 or less, any restriction on or prohibition against any transfer or assignment of such security for the purposes of preventing a termination or reclassification of the entity for federal or state tax purposes will not of itself prevent the security from being considered freely transferable. A class of securities is considered “widely-held” if it is a class of securities that is owned by 100 or more investors independent of the issuer and of one another. Management believes that the stock of the Company will meet the criteria of the publicly-offered securities exception to the look-through rule in that the stock of the Company is freely transferable, the minimum investment is less than $10,000 and the only restrictions upon its transfer are those required under federal income tax laws to maintain the Company’s status as a REIT. Second, stock of the Company is held by 100 or more investors and at least 100 or more of these investors are independent of the Company and of one another. Third, the stock of the Company has been and will be part of offerings of securities to the public pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act and will be registered under the Exchange Act within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year of the Company during which an offering of such securities to the public occurs. Accordingly, management believes that if a Plan purchases stock of the Company, the Company’s assets should not be deemed to be Plan assets and, therefore, that any person who exercises authority or control with respect to the Company’s assets should not be treated as a Plan fiduciary for purposes of the prohibited transaction rules of ERISA and Section 4975 of the Code. Available Information The Company makes available to the public free of charge through its internet website the Company’s Proxy Statement, Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such reports with, or furnishes such reports to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company’s internet website address is www.healthcarerealty.com. The public may read and copy any materials that the Company files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains electronic versions of the Company’s reports on its website at www.sec.gov. Corporate Governance Principles The Company has adopted Corporate Governance Principles relating to the conduct and operations of the Board of Directors. The Corporate Governance Principles are posted on the Company’s website (www.healthcarerealty.com) and are available in print to any stockholder who requests a copy. Committee Charters The Board of Directors has an Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Corporate Governance Committee and Executive Committee. The Board of Directors has adopted written charters for each committee except for the Executive Committee, which are posted on the Company’s website (www.healthcarerealty.com) and are available in print to any stockholder who requests a copy. Executive Officers Information regarding the executive officers of the Company is set forth in Part III, Item 10 of this report and is incorporated herein by reference. 22 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are some of the risks and uncertainties that could cause the Company’s actual financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report or the Company’s other filings with the SEC. These risks, as well as the risks described in Item 1 under the headings “Competition,” “Government Regulation,” and “Federal Income Tax Information” and in Item 7 under the heading “Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” should be carefully considered before making an investment decision regarding the Company. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company, and there may be additional risks that the Company does not presently know of or that the Company currently considers not likely to have a significant impact. If any of the events underlying the following risks actually occurred, the Company’s business, financial condition and operating results could suffer, and the trading price of its Common Stock could decline. The unavailability of equity and debt capital, volatility in the credit markets, changes in interest rates, or changes in the Company’s debt ratings could harm its financial position. A REIT is required by IRS regulations to make dividend distributions, thereby retaining less of its capital for growth. As a result, a REIT typically grows through steady investments of new capital in real estate assets. Presently, the Company has sufficient capital availability. However, there may be times when the Company will have limited access to capital from the equity and/or debt markets. Recently, the capital and credit markets have become increasingly volatile as a result of adverse conditions that have caused the failure or near failure of large financial services companies. If the capital and credit markets continue to experience volatility and the availability of funds remains limited, it is possible that the Company’s ability to access the capital and credit markets may be limited by these or other factors, which could have an impact on its ability to refinance maturing debt, fund dividend payments and operations, acquire healthcare properties and complete construction projects. Changes in the Company’s debt ratings could have a material adverse effect on its interest costs and financing sources. The Company’s debt rating can be materially influenced by a number of factors including, but not limited to, acquisitions, investment decisions, and capital management activities. The Company’s revenues depend on the ability of its tenants and sponsors under its financial support agreements to generate sufficient income from their operations to make loan, rent and support payments to the Company. The Company’s revenues are subject to the financial strength of its tenants and sponsors. The Company has no operational control over the business of these tenants and sponsors who face a wide range of economic, competitive and regulatory pressures and constraints. Such pressures and constraints could materially impair these tenants and sponsors and prevent them from making their loan, rent and support payments to the Company which could have a negative effect on the Company’s cash flows and results of operations and its ability to make dividend payments. If a healthcare tenant loses its licensure or certification, becomes unable to provide healthcare services, cannot meet its financial obligations to the Company or otherwise vacates the facility, the Company would have to obtain another tenant for the affected facility. If the Company loses a tenant or sponsor and is unable to attract another healthcare provider on a timely basis and on acceptable terms, the Company’s cash flows and results of operations could suffer. In addition, many of the Company’s properties are special purpose healthcare facilities that may not be easily adaptable to other uses. Transfers of operations of healthcare facilities are often subject to regulatory approvals not required for transfers of other types of commercial operations and real estate. 23 Table of Contents If lenders under the Company’s Unsecured Credit Facility fail to meet their funding commitments, the Company’s financial position would be negatively impacted. Access to external capital on favorable terms is critical to the Company’s success in growing and maintaining its portfolio. If financial institutions within the Company’s Unsecured Credit Facility were unwilling or unable to meet their respective funding commitments to the Company, any such failure would have a negative impact on the Company’s operations, financial condition and ability to meet its obligations, including the payment of dividends to stockholders. The Company is subject to risks associated with the development of properties. The Company is subject to certain risks associated with the development of properties including the following: • The construction of properties generally require various government and other approvals which may not be received when expected, or at all, which could delay or preclude commencement of construction; • Unsuccessful development opportunities could result in the recognition of direct expenses which could impact the Company’s results of operations; • Construction costs could exceed original estimates, which would impact its profitability to the Company; • Time required to initiate and complete the construction of a property and lease up a completed development property may be greater than originally anticipated, thereby adversely affecting the Company’s cash flow and liquidity; • Occupancy rates and rents of a completed development property may not be sufficient to make the property profitable to the Company; and • Favorable capital sources to fund the Company’s development activities may not be available when needed. The Company may be unsuccessful in operating new and existing real estate properties. The Company’s acquired, developed and existing real estate properties may not perform in accordance with management’s expectations because of many factors including the following: • The Company’s purchase price for acquired facilities may be based upon a series of market judgments which may be incorrect; • The costs of any improvements required to bring an acquired facility up to standards necessary to establish the market position intended for that facility might exceed budgeted costs; • The Company may incur unexpected costs in the acquisition, construction or maintenance of real estate assets that could impact its expected returns on such assets; and • Leasing of real estate properties may not occur within expected timeframes or at expected rental rates. Further, the Company can give no assurance that acquisition and development opportunities that will meet management’s investment criteria will be available when needed or anticipated. The Company’s long-term master leases and financial support agreements may expire and not be extended. Long-term master leases and financial support agreements that are expiring may not be extended. With respect to master leased properties, the Company may not be able to re-let those properties at rental rates that are as high as the former master lease rate. With respect to properties with financial support agreements that are not extended at expiration, the property operating income generated from those properties may decline. 24 Table of Contents The market price of the Company’s stock may be affected adversely by changes in the Company’s dividend policy. The ability of the Company to pay dividends is dependent upon its ability to maintain funds from operations and cash flow, to make accretive new investments and to access capital. A failure to maintain dividend payments at current levels could result in a reduction of the market price of the Company’s stock. Adverse trends in the healthcare service industry may negatively affect the Company’s lease revenues and the values of its investments. The healthcare service industry is currently experiencing: • Changing trends in the method of delivery of healthcare services; • Increased expense for uninsured patients and uncompensated care; • Increased competition among healthcare providers; • Continuing pressure by private and governmental payors to contain costs and reimbursements while increasing patients’ access to healthcare services; • Lower operating profit margins in an uncertain economy; • Investment losses; • Constrained availability of capital; • Credit downgrades; • Increased liability insurance expense; and • Increased scrutiny and formal investigations by federal and state authorities. These changes, among others, can adversely affect the economic performance of some or all of the tenants and sponsors who provide financial support to the Company’s investments and, in turn, negatively affect the lease revenues and the value of the Company’s property investments. The Company is exposed to risks associated with entering new geographic markets. The Company’s acquisition and development activities may involve entering geographic markets where the Company has not previously had a presence. The construction and/or acquisition of properties in new geographic areas involves risks, including the risk that the property will not perform as anticipated and the risk that any actual costs for site development and improvements identified in the pre-construction or pre-acquisition due diligence process will exceed estimates. There is, and it is expected that there will continue to be, significant competition for investment opportunities that meet management’s investment criteria, as well as risks associated with obtaining financing for acquisition activities, if necessary. The Company may experience uninsured or underinsured losses related to casualty or liability. The Company generally requires its tenants to maintain comprehensive liability and property insurance that covers the Company as well as the tenants. The Company also carries comprehensive liability insurance and property insurance covering its owned and managed properties. In addition, tenants under long-term master leases are required to carry property insurance covering the Company’s interest in the buildings. Some types of losses, however, either may be uninsurable or too expensive to insure against. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, the Company could lose all or a portion of the capital it has invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. In such an event, the Company might remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligation related to the property. The Company cannot give assurance that material losses in excess of insurance proceeds will not occur in the future. 25 Table of Contents The Company owns facilities that are operated by companies that may experience regulatory and legal problems. The Company’s tenants and sponsors are subject to a complex system of federal and state regulations relating to the delivery of healthcare services. If a tenant or sponsor experiences regulatory or legal problems, the Company could be at risk for amounts owed to it by the tenant under leases or financial support agreements. Failure to maintain its status as a REIT, even in one taxable year, could cause the Company to reduce its dividends dramatically. The Company intends to qualify at all times as a REIT under the Code. If in any taxable year the Company does not qualify as a REIT, it would be taxed as a corporation. As a result, the Company could not deduct its distributions to the stockholders in computing its taxable income. Depending upon the circumstances, a REIT that loses its qualification in one year may not be eligible to re-qualify during the four succeeding years. Further, certain transactions or other events could lead to the Company being taxed at rates ranging from four to 100 percent on certain income or gains. For more information about the Company’s status as a REIT, see “Federal Income Tax Information” in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 