Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces significant risks. These risks include those described below and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. These risks should be read in conjunction with the other information in this report. EXTENDED BUSINESS INTERRUPTION AT OUR FACILITIES COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE IMPACT ON OPERATING RESULTS. Our results of operations are dependent in large part upon our ability to produce and deliver products promptly upon receipt of orders and to provide prompt and efficient service to our customers. Any disruption of our day-to-day operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, customer relations and profitability. Our Kokkola and Harjavalta, Finland facilities and the Cawse mine and processing facility in Australia are the primary refining and production facilities for our products. The GTL smelter in the DRC is a primary source for cobalt raw material feed. Our Cleveland, Ohio facility serves as our corporate headquarters. These facilities are critical to our business, and a fire, flood, earthquake or other disaster or condition that damaged or destroyed any of these facilities could disable them. Any such damage to, or other condition interfering with the operation of, these facilities would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. WE ARE AT RISK FROM FLUCTUATIONS IN THE PRICE OF OUR PRINCIPAL RAW MATERIALS. The principal raw materials we use in manufacturing base metal chemistry products are cobalt and nickel, and the cost of these raw materials fluctuates due to actual or perceived changes in supply and demand, changes in cobalt and nickel reference/market prices and changes in availability from suppliers. Fluctuations in the prices of cobalt and nickel have been significant in the past and we believe price fluctuations are likely to occur in the future. Our ability to pass increases in raw material prices through to our customers by increasing the prices of our products is an important factor in our business. The extent of our profitability depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the differential between our product prices and raw material prices, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain an appropriate differential at all times. We may be required under U.S. GAAP accounting rules to write down the carrying value of our inventory when cobalt and nickel prices decrease. In periods of raw material metal price declines or declines in the selling price of the Company’s finished products, inventory carrying values could exceed the amount the Company could realize on sale, resulting in a charge against inventory that could adversely affect our operating results. 8 WE ARE AT RISK FROM UNCERTAINTIES IN THE SUPPLY OF SOME OF OUR PRINCIPAL RAW MATERIALS. Historically, we have sourced our supply of cobalt primarily from the DRC, Australia and Finland. Production problems or political or civil instability in supplier countries may affect the supply and market price of cobalt. In particular, political and civil instability in the DRC may affect the availability of raw materials from that country. If a substantial interruption should occur in the supply of cobalt from the DRC or elsewhere, we may not be able to obtain as much cobalt from other sources as would be necessary to satisfy our requirements at prices comparable to our current arrangements and our operating results could be adversely impacted. Historically, we have sourced our supply of nickel primarily from Australia, Finland and Brazil. If a substantial interruption should occur in the supply of nickel, we may not be able to obtain as much nickel as would be necessary to satisfy our requirements and our operating results could be adversely impacted. WE ARE EXPOSED TO FLUCTUATIONS IN FOREIGN EXCHANGE RATES, WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS. We have manufacturing and other facilities in North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific and Africa, and we market our products worldwide. Although most of our raw material purchases and product sales are transacted in U.S. dollars, liabilities for non-U.S. operating expenses and income taxes are denominated in local currencies. In addition, fluctuations in exchange rates may affect product demand and may adversely affect the profitability in U.S. dollars of products provided by us in foreign markets where payment for our products is made in the local currency. Accordingly, fluctuations in currency rates may affect our operating results. OUR SUBSTANTIAL INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS SUBJECT US TO RISKS, WHICH MAY INCLUDE UNFAVORABLE POLITICAL, REGULATORY, LABOR AND TAX CONDITIONS IN OTHER COUNTRIES. Our business is subject to risks related to the differing legal and regulatory requirements and the social, political and economic conditions of many jurisdictions. In addition to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, risks inherent in international operations include the following: • potential supply disruptions as a result of political instability or civil unrest in countries in which we have operations, especially the DRC and surrounding countries; • agreements may be difficult to enforce and receivables difficult to collect through a foreign country’s legal system; • foreign customers may have longer payment cycles; • foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign income, impose tariffs or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade or investment, including currency exchange controls; • general economic conditions in the countries in which we operate could have an adverse effect on our earnings from operations in those countries; • unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements may occur, including with respect to export duties and quotas; and • compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations may be difficult. Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed in differing legal, regulatory, economic, social and political conditions. We cannot assure you that we will implement policies and strategies that will be effective in each location where we do business. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that any of the foregoing factors will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 9 WE ARE SUBJECT TO STRINGENT ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION AND MAY INCUR UNANTICIPATED COSTS OR LIABILITIES ARISING OUT OF ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS. We are subject to stringent laws and regulations relating to the storage, handling, disposal, emission and discharge of materials into the environment, and we have expended, and may be required to expend in the future, substantial funds for compliance with such laws and regulations. In addition, we may from time to time be subjected to claims for personal injury, property damages or natural resource damages made by third parties or regulators. Our annual environmental compliance costs were $7.4 million in 2005. In addition, we made capital expenditures of approximately $3.9 million in 2005 in connection with environmental compliance. As of December 31, 2005, we had reserves of $8.8 million, which we believe to be sufficient to cover our estimated liabilities at that time. However, given the many uncertainties involved in assessing liability for environmental claims, our current reserves may prove to be insufficient. We continually evaluate the adequacy of our reserves and adjust reserves when determined to be appropriate. In addition, our current reserves are based only on known sites and the known contamination on those sites. It is possible that additional remediation sites will be identified in the future or that unknown contamination at previously identified sites will be discovered. This could require us to make additional expenditures for environmental remediation or could result in exposure to claims in the future. THE COMPANY IS CURRENTLY IN A TRANSITIONAL PERIOD AS WE DEVELOP AND IMPLEMENT A NEW STRATEGIC PLAN. As a result of changes to the Company’s executive officers and members of the board of directors during 2005, the Company is currently in a transitional period and may make changes, which could be material, to the Company’s business, operations, financial condition and results of operations. It is impossible to predict what these changes will be and the impact they will have on the Company’s future results of operations. SEC INVESTIGATION. As previously disclosed, the SEC’s Division of Enforcement is conducting an informal investigation resulting from the self reporting by the Company of an internal investigation. This internal investigation was conducted in 2004 by the audit committee of our board of directors in connection with the previous restatement of our financial results for the periods prior to December 31, 2003. We are cooperating fully with the SEC informal investigation, but we cannot assure you that the SEC’s Division of Enforcement will not take any action that would adversely affect us. ADVERSE RESOLUTION OF LITIGATION MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS OR FINANCIAL CONDITION. We are party to lawsuits in the normal course of business. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. An unfavorable resolution of a particular lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition. For additional information regarding certain of the lawsuits in which we are involved, See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” contained in Part I of this report. IMPLEMENTATION OF AN ENTERPRISE RESOURCE PLANNING (“ERP”) PROJECT HAS THE POTENTIAL FOR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION AND ASSOCIATED ADVERSE IMPACT ON OPERATING RESULTS. During 2005, we initiated a multi-year ERP project that is expected to be implemented worldwide to achieve increased efficiency and effectiveness in supply chain and financial processes. The system will be implemented at one site in 2006. The implementation of the ERP system has the potential to disrupt our business by delaying the processing of key business transactions. In addition, the implementation of the ERP system may take longer than anticipated or be more costly than originally estimated. 10 WE HAVE A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF DEBT, AND THE COST OF SERVICING THAT DEBT COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR LIQUIDITY, FINANCIAL CONDITION OR OUR ABILITY TO TAKE ACTIONS. Our level of debt and debt service requirements could have important consequences for our business. For example, it could: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts, and for other general corporate purposes; • increase our vulnerability to interest rate increases to the extent our variable-rate debt is not effectively hedged; • restrict our ability to dispose of assets or to pay cash dividends on or repurchase our stock; • increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions and competition; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in our business and our industry; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. Any of the foregoing consequences could have a material adverse effect on us. Our ability to make principal and interest payments, or to refinance our indebtedness, including our outstanding senior subordinated notes, depends on our future performance. Our future performance is, to a certain extent, subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. We cannot guarantee that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt and fund necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow, we may be required to refinance all or a portion of our existing debt, sell assets or obtain additional financing. We cannot guarantee that any refinancing or sale of assets or additional financing would be possible on terms reasonably favorable to us, or at all. Some of our competitors currently operate on a less leveraged basis and may have greater operating and financial flexibility. WE MAY INCUR MORE DEBT, WHICH COULD EXACERBATE THE RISKS DESCRIBED ABOVE. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our existing credit facilities and the indenture for our outstanding senior subordinated notes limit us from incurring additional indebtedness but do not fully prohibit us or our subsidiaries from doing so. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the related risks that we and they now face could intensify. THE OPERATING AND FINANCIAL RESTRICTIONS IMPOSED BY OUR DEBT AGREEMENTS, INCLUDING OUR CREDIT FACILITIES AND THE INDENTURE RELATING TO OUR SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES, LIMIT OUR ABILITY TO FINANCE OPERATIONS AND CAPITAL NEEDS OR ENGAGE IN OTHER BUSINESS ACTIVITIES. Our debt agreements contain covenants that restrict our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness (including guarantees); • incur liens; • dispose of assets; • pay dividends and make other restricted payments; • issue preferred stock containing redemption provisions requiring a payment before the maturity of the notes or, in the case of our subsidiaries, issue capital stock; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; 11 • enter into some leases; and • engage in some transactions with affiliates. In addition, our credit facilities require us to comply with specified financial covenants including minimum cash flow coverage ratio and a maximum total leverage ratio. Our ability to meet these covenants and requirements in the future may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. Our breach or failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit facilities or the indenture governing our outstanding senior subordinated notes. If we default under our credit facilities, the lenders could cease to make further extensions of credit, cause all of our outstanding debt obligations under these credit facilities to become due and payable, require us to apply all of our available cash to repay the indebtedness under these credit facilities, prevent us from making debt service payments on any other indebtedness we owe and/or proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure repayment of those amounts. If a default under the indenture occurs, the holders of the notes could elect to declare the notes immediately due and payable. If the indebtedness under our credit facilities or the notes is accelerated, we may not have sufficient assets to repay amounts due under these existing debt agreements or on other debt securities then outstanding. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO RESPOND EFFECTIVELY TO TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES IN OUR INDUSTRY OR IN OUR CUSTOMERS’ PRODUCTS. Our future business success will depend in part upon our ability to maintain and enhance our technological capabilities, develop and market products and applications that meet changing customer needs and successfully anticipate or respond to technological changes on a cost-effective and timely basis. Our inability to anticipate, respond to or utilize changing technologies could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Moreover, technological and other changes in our customers’ products or processes may render some of our specialty chemicals unnecessary, which would reduce the demand for those chemicals. WE OPERATE IN VERY COMPETITIVE INDUSTRIES. We have many competitors. Some of our principal competitors have greater financial and other resources, less leverage and greater brand recognition than we have. Accordingly, these competitors may be better able to withstand changes in conditions within the industries in which we operate and may have significantly greater operating and financial flexibility than we do. As a result of the competitive environment in the markets in which we operate, we currently face and will continue to face pressure on the sales prices of our products from competitors and large customers. With these pricing pressures, we may experience future reductions in the profit margins on our sales, or may be unable to pass on future raw material price or operating cost increases to our customers, which also would reduce profit margins. In addition, we may encounter increased competition in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Since we conduct our business mainly on a purchase order basis, with few long-term commitments from our customers, this competitive environment could give rise to a sudden loss of business. INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION MAY LEAD TO INCREASED COMPETITION AND MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS. There has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets. We believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors with greater financial and other resources that are better able to compete for customers. This could lead to more variability in operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. FAILURE TO RETAIN AND RECRUIT KEY PERSONNEL WOULD HARM OUR ABILITY TO MEET KEY OBJECTIVES. Our key personnel are critical to the management and direction of our businesses. Our future success depends, in large part, on our ability to retain key personnel and other capable management personnel. Although we believe 12 that we will be able to attract and retain talented personnel and replace key personnel should the need arise, our inability to do so could make it difficult to meet key objectives and disrupt the operations of the segment affected or our overall operations. WE MAY EXPAND OUR OPERATIONS THROUGH ACQUISITIONS, WHICH COULD DIVERT MANAGEMENT’S ATTENTION AND EXPOSE US TO UNANTICIPATED COSTS AND LIABILITIES. WE MAY EXPERIENCE DIFFICULTIES INTEGRATING THE ACQUIRED OPERATIONS, AND WE MAY INCUR COSTS RELATING TO POTENTIAL ACQUISITIONS THAT ARE NEVER CONSUMMATED. Our business plan could include growth through future acquisitions. However, our ability to consummate any future acquisitions on terms that are favorable to us may be limited by the number of attractive acquisition targets, internal demands on our resources and our ability to obtain financing. Our success in integrating newly acquired businesses will depend upon our ability to retain key personnel, avoid diversion of management’s attention from operational matters, and integrate general and administrative services and key information processing systems. In addition, future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional debt, costs and contingent liabilities. Integration of acquired operations may take longer, or be more costly or disruptive to our business, than originally anticipated. It is also possible that expected synergies from future acquisitions may not materialize. We may also incur costs and divert management attention as regards potential acquisitions that are never consummated. Although we undertake a due diligence investigation of each business that we acquire, there may be liabilities of the acquired companies that we fail to or are unable to discover during the due diligence investigation and for which we, as a successor owner, may be responsible. In connection with acquisitions, we generally seek to minimize the impact of these types of potential liabilities through indemnities and warranties from the seller, which may in some instances be supported by deferring payment of a portion of the purchase price. However, these indemnities and warranties, if obtained, may not fully cover the liabilities due to limitations in scope, amount or duration, financial limitations of the indemnitor or warrantor or other reasons. OUR HEDGING ARRANGEMENTS INVOLVE RISK. To manage our exposure to market risk, we periodically enter into forward and future contracts to hedge commodity price risk to nickel and swap agreements to hedge interest rate risk related to borrowings. These transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which the contractual counterparties fail to perform under the contracts or a sudden, unexpected event materially impacts nickel prices or interest rates. CHANGES IN EFFECTIVE TAX RATES OR ADVERSE OUTCOMES RESULTING FROM EXAMINATION OF OUR INCOME TAX RETURNS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates, higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates, or if we incur losses for which no corresponding tax benefit can be realized, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof. In addition, we are subject to examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In July 2005, the FASB issued an Exposure Draft of a proposed Interpretation “Accounting for Uncertain Tax Positions — an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109.” The proposed Interpretation proposes changes to the current accounting for uncertain tax positions. While we cannot predict with certainty the rules in the final Interpretation, there is risk that the final Interpretation could result in a cumulative effect charge to earnings 13 upon adoption, increases in future effective tax rates, and/or increases in future interperiod effective tax rate volatility. OUR STOCK PRICE MAY CONTINUE TO BE VOLATILE. Our common stock has experienced substantial price volatility, particularly as a result of variations between our actual financial results and the published expectations of analysts. Furthermore, speculation in the press or investment community about our strategic position, financial condition, results of operations, business, or significant transactions can cause changes in our stock price. These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions, may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has received no written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of its 2005 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 