Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe following are some of the risks and uncertainties that could negatively affect the Company’s consolidated financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects. These risks, as well as the risks described in Item 1 under the headings “Competition,” “Government Regulation,” “Legislative Developments,” and “Environmental Matters,” and in Item 7 under the heading “Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” should be carefully considered before making an investment decision regarding the Company. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company, and there may be additional risks that the Company does not presently know of or that the Company currently considers not likely to have a significant impact. If any of the events underlying the following risks actually occurred, the Company’s business, consolidated financial condition, operating results and cash flows, including distributions to the Company's stockholders, could suffer, and the trading price of its common stock could decline.The Company's expected results may not be achieved.The Company's expected results may not be achieved, and actual results may differ materially from expectations. This may be the result of various factors, including, but not limited to: changes in the economy; the availability and cost of capital at favorable rates; changes to facility-related healthcare regulations; changes in interest rates; competition for quality assets; negative developments in the operating results or financial condition of the Company's tenants, including, but not limited to, their ability to pay rent and repay loans; the Company's ability to reposition or sell facilities with profitable results; the Company's ability to re-lease space at similar rates as vacancies occur; the Company's ability to timely reinvest proceeds from the sale of assets at similar yields; government regulations affecting tenants' Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates and operational requirements; unanticipated difficulties and/or expenditures relating to future acquisitions and developments; changes in rules or practices governing the Company's financial reporting; and other legal and operational matters. The Company’s expiring long-term single-tenant net leases may not be extended.Long-term single-tenant net leases that are expiring may not be extended. To the extent these properties have vacancies or subleases at lower rates upon expiration, income may decline if the Company is not able to re-let the properties at rental rates that are as high as the former rates. For more specific information concerning the Company’s expiring long-term single-tenant net leases, see “Single-Tenant Net Leases” in "Trends and Matters Impacting Operating Results" section of this report.The Company’s revenues depend on the ability of its tenants and sponsoring health systems under its leases and property operating agreements to generate sufficient income from their operations to make rent, loan and property lease guaranty payments to the Company.The Company’s revenues are subject to the financial strength of its tenants and sponsoring health systems. The Company has no operational control over the business of these tenants and sponsoring health systems who face a wide range of economic, competitive, government reimbursement and regulatory pressures and constraints. Any slowdown in the economy, decline in the availability of financing from the capital markets, and changes in healthcare regulations may adversely affect, the businesses of the Company’s tenants and sponsoring health systems to varying degrees. Such conditions may further impact such tenants’ and sponsoring health systems’ abilities to meet their obligations to the Company and, in certain cases, could lead to restructurings, disruptions, or bankruptcies of such tenants and sponsoring health systems. In turn, these conditions could adversely affect the Company’s revenues and could increase allowances for losses and result in impairment charges, which could decrease net income attributable to common stockholders and equity, and reduce cash flows from operations.6Table of ContentsThe Company may decide or may be required under purchase options to sell certain properties. The Company may not be able to reinvest the proceeds from sale at rates of return equal to the return received on the properties sold.The Company had approximately $224.0 million, or 7.3% of the Company’s real estate property investments, that were subject to purchase options held by lessees or sponsoring health systems under property operating agreements that were exercisable as of December 31, 2013 or could become exercisable in 2014. Other properties have purchase options that will become exercisable in future periods. Properties with options exercisable in 2014 produced aggregate net operating income of approximately $20.5 million in 2013. Five of those properties were also benefited by property lease guaranty payments of $5.1 million in 2013, in addition to underlying property net operating income, pursuant to property operating agreements with a sponsoring health system. The exercise of these purchase options exposes the Company to reinvestment risk and a reduction in investment return. Certain properties subject to purchase options are producing returns above the rates of return the Company expects to achieve with new investments. If the Company is unable to reinvest the sale proceeds at rates of return equal to the return received on the properties that are sold, it may experience a decline in lease revenues and a corresponding material adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial condition, the Company’s ability to make distributions to its stockholders, and the market price of its common stock.The Company has incurred significant debt obligations and may incur additional debt and increase leverage in the future.As of December 31, 2013, the Company had approximately $1.3 billion of outstanding indebtedness and the Company’s leverage ratio [debt divided by (debt plus stockholders’ equity less intangible assets plus accumulated depreciation)] was 42.0%. Covenants under the unsecured credit facility due 2017 ("Unsecured Credit Facility") and the indentures governing the Company’s senior notes permit the Company to incur substantial, additional debt, and the Company may borrow additional funds, which may include secured borrowings. A high level of indebtedness would require the Company to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flows from operations to service the debt, thereby reducing the funds available to implement the Company’s business strategy and to make distributions to stockholders. A high level of indebtedness could also:•limit the Company’s ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions in the event of a downturn in general economic conditions or in the real estate and/or healthcare industries;•impair the Company’s ability to obtain additional debt financing or require potentially dilutive equity to fund obligations and carry out its business strategy; and•result in a downgrade of the rating of the Company’s debt securities by one or more rating agencies, which would increase the costs of borrowing under the Unsecured Credit Facility and the cost of issuance of new debt securities, among other things.In addition, from time to time the Company mortgages properties to secure payment of indebtedness. If the Company is unable to meet its mortgage payments, then the encumbered properties could be foreclosed upon or transferred to the mortgagee with a consequent loss of income and asset value. A foreclosure on one or more of the Company's properties could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations.Covenants in the Company’s debt instruments limit its operational flexibility, and a breach of these covenants could materially affect the Company’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations.The terms of the Unsecured Credit Facility, the indentures governing the Company’s outstanding senior notes and other debt instruments that the Company may enter into in the future are subject to customary financial and operational covenants. These provisions include, among other things: a limitation on the incurrence of additional indebtedness; limitations on mergers, investments, acquisitions, redemptions of capital stock, transactions with affiliates; and maintenance of specified financial ratios. The Company’s continued ability to incur debt and operate its business is subject to compliance with these covenants, which limit operational flexibility. Breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under applicable debt instruments, even if payment obligations are satisfied. Financial and other covenants that limit the Company’s operational flexibility, as well as defaults resulting from a breach of any of these covenants in its debt instruments, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations.A change to the Company’s current dividend payment may have an adverse effect on the market price of the Company’s common stock.The ability of the Company to pay dividends is dependent upon its ability to maintain funds from operations and cash flow, to make accretive new investments and to access capital. There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to pay dividends at current amounts, or at all. A failure to maintain dividend payments at current levels could result in a reduction of the market price of the Company’s common stock.7Table of ContentsIf lenders under the Unsecured Credit Facility fail to meet their funding commitments, the Company’s operations and consolidated financial position would be negatively impacted.Access to external capital on favorable terms is critical to the Company’s success in growing and maintaining its portfolio. If financial institutions within the Unsecured Credit Facility were unwilling or unable to meet their respective funding commitments to the Company, any such failure would have a negative impact on the Company’s operations, consolidated financial condition and ability to meet its obligations, including the payment of dividends to stockholders.Owning real estate and indirect interests in real estate is subject to inherent risks.The Company’s operating performance and the value of its real estate assets are subject to the risk that if its properties do not generate revenues sufficient to meet its operating expenses, including debt service, the Company’s cash flow and ability to pay dividends to stockholders will be adversely affected.The Company may incur impairment charges on its real estate properties or other assets.The Company performs an impairment review on its real estate properties every fiscal year. In addition, the Company assesses the potential for impairment of identifiable intangible assets and long-lived assets, including real estate properties, whenever events occur or a change in circumstances indicates that the recorded value might not be fully recoverable. The decision to sell a property also requires the Company to assess the potential for impairment. At some future date, the Company may determine that an impairment has occurred in the value of one or more of its real estate properties or other assets. In such an event, the Company may be required to recognize an impairment which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations.If a healthcare tenant loses its licensure or certification, becomes unable to provide healthcare services, cannot meet its financial obligations to the Company or otherwise vacates a facility, the Company would have to obtain another tenant for the affected facility.If the Company loses a tenant or sponsor health system and is unable to attract another healthcare provider on a timely basis and on acceptable terms, the Company’s cash flows and results of operations could suffer. Transfers of operations of healthcare facilities are often subject to regulatory approvals not required for transfers of other types of commercial operations and real estate.If the Company is unable to promptly re-let its properties, if the rates upon such re-letting are significantly lower than the previous rates or if the Company is required to undertake significant expenditures to attract new tenants, then the Company’s business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected.A portion of the Company’s leases will expire over the course of any year. For more specific information concerning the Company’s expiring leases, see the "Trends and Matters Impacting Operating Results" section. The Company may not be able to re-let space on terms that are favorable to the Company or at all. Further, the Company may be required to make significant capital expenditures to renovate or reconfigure space to attract new tenants. If it is unable to promptly re-let its properties, if the rates upon such re-letting are significantly lower than the previous rates, or if the Company is required to undertake significant capital expenditures in connection with re-letting units, the Company’s business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations, the Company’s ability to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders and the trading price of the Company’s common stock may be materially and adversely affected.Certain of the Company’s properties are special purpose healthcare facilities and may not be easily adaptable to other uses.Some of the Company’s properties are specialized medical facilities. If the Company or the Company’s tenants terminate the leases for these properties or the Company’s tenants lose their regulatory authority to operate such properties, the Company may not be able to locate suitable replacement tenants to lease the properties for their specialized uses. Alternatively, the Company may be required to spend substantial amounts to adapt the properties to other uses. Any loss of revenues and/or additional capital expenditures occurring as a result may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, the Company’s ability to make distributions to its stockholders, and the market price of the Company’s common stock.The Company has, and may have more in the future, exposure to fixed rent escalators, which could impact its growth and profitability. The Company receives a significant portion of its revenues by leasing assets in which the rental rate is generally fixed with annual escalations. Most of these annual increases are based upon fixed percentage increases while some are based on increases in the Consumer Price Index. If the fixed percentage increases begin to lag behind inflation, the Company's growth and profitability would be negatively impacted. The Company’s real estate investments are illiquid and the Company may not be able to sell properties strategically targeted for disposition.Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, the Company’s ability to adjust its portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions is limited. Certain significant expenditures generally do not change in response to economic or other conditions, including debt service (if any), real estate taxes, and operating and maintenance costs. This combination of 8Table of Contentsvariable revenue and relatively fixed expenditures may result in reduced earnings and could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition. In addition, the Company may not be able to sell properties targeted for disposition, including properties held for sale, due to adverse market conditions. This may negatively affect, among other things, the Company’s ability to sell properties on favorable terms, execute its operating strategy, repay debt or pay dividends. The Company is subject to risks associated with the development of properties.As of December 31, 2013, the Company had approximately $510.6 million invested in construction mortgage loans and properties developed by the Company in recent years currently in the lease-up process. The Company’s remaining funding obligations on the construction mortgage loans was $14.9 million as of December 31, 2013, and the Company expects to fund at least an additional $22 million for tenant improvements on development conversion properties. The Company is subject to certain risks associated with the development of properties including the following:•The construction of properties generally requires various government and other approvals that may not be received when expected, or at all, which could delay or preclude commencement of construction;•Development opportunities that the Company pursued but later abandoned could result in the expensing of pursuit costs, which could impact the Company’s consolidated results of operations;•Construction costs could exceed original estimates, which could impact the building’s profitability to the Company;•Operating expenses could be higher than forecasted;•Time required to initiate and complete the construction of a property and to lease up a completed development property may be greater than originally anticipated, thereby adversely affecting the Company’s cash flow and liquidity;•Occupancy rates and rents of a completed development property may not be sufficient to make the property profitable to the Company; and•Favorable capital sources to fund the Company’s development activities may not be available when needed.From time to time the Company may make material acquisitions and undertake developments that may involve the expenditure of significant funds and may not perform in accordance with management’s expectations.The Company regularly pursues potential transactions to acquire or develop additional assets in order to grow stockholder value. Future acquisitions could require the Company to issue equity securities, incur debt or other contingent liabilities or amortize expenses related to other intangible assets, any of which could adversely impact the Company’s consolidated financial condition or results of operations. In addition, equity or debt financing required for such acquisitions may not be available at favorable times or rates.The Company’s acquired, developed and existing real estate properties may not perform in accordance with management’s expectations because of many factors including the following:•The Company’s purchase price for acquired facilities may be based upon a series of market or building-specific judgments which may be incorrect;•The costs of any maintenance or improvements for properties might exceed estimated costs;•The Company may incur unexpected costs in the acquisition, construction or maintenance of real estate assets that could impact its expected returns on such assets; and•Leasing of real estate properties may not occur within expected time frames or at expected rental rates.Further, the Company can give no assurance that acquisition and development opportunities that meet management’s investment criteria will be available when needed or anticipated.The Company is exposed to risks associated with entering new geographic markets.The Company’s acquisition and development activities may involve entering geographic markets where the Company has not previously had a presence. The construction and/or acquisition of properties in new geographic areas involves risks, including the risk that the property will not perform as anticipated and the risk that any actual costs for site development and improvements identified in the pre-construction or pre-acquisition due diligence process will exceed estimates. There is, and it is expected that there will continue to be, significant competition for investment opportunities that meet management’s investment criteria, as well as risks associated with obtaining financing for acquisition activities, if necessary. 9Table of ContentsMany of the Company’s properties are held under ground leases. These ground leases contain provisions that may limit the Company’s ability to lease, sell, or finance these properties.As of December 31, 2013, the Company had 92 properties, representing an aggregate net investment of approximately $1.1 billion, that were held under ground leases. The Company’s ground lease agreements with hospitals and health systems typically contain restrictions that limit building occupancy to physicians on the medical staff of an affiliated hospital and prohibit tenants from providing services that compete with the services provided by the affiliated hospital. Ground leases may also contain consent requirements or other restrictions on sale or assignment of the Company’s leasehold interest, including rights of first offer and first refusal in favor of the lessor. These ground lease provisions may limit the Company’s ability to lease, sell, or obtain mortgage financing secured by such properties which, in turn, could adversely affect the income from operations or the proceeds received from a sale. As a ground lessee, the Company is also exposed to the risk of reversion of the property upon expiration of the ground lease term, or an earlier breach by the Company of the ground lease, which may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations, the Company’s ability to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders and the trading price of the Company’s common stock.The unavailability of equity and debt capital, volatility in the credit markets, increases in interest rates, or changes in the Company’s debt ratings could have an adverse effect on the Company’s ability to meet its debt payments, make dividend payments to stockholders or engage in acquisition and development activity.A REIT is required by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Internal Revenue Code") to make dividend distributions, thereby retaining less of its capital for growth. As a result, a REIT typically grows through steady investments of new capital in real estate assets. However, there may be times when the Company will have limited access to capital from the equity and/or debt markets. Changes in the Company’s debt ratings could have a material adverse effect on its interest costs and financing sources. The Company’s debt rating can be materially influenced by a number of factors including, but not limited to, acquisitions, investment decisions, and capital management activities. In recent years, the capital and credit markets have experienced volatility and at times have limited the availability of funds. The Company’s ability to access the capital and credit markets may be limited by these or other factors, which could have an impact on its ability to refinance maturing debt, fund dividend payments and operations, acquire healthcare properties and complete construction projects. If the Company is unable to refinance or extend principal payments due at maturity of its various debt instruments, its cash flow may not be sufficient to repay maturing debt and, consequently, make dividend payments to stockholders. If the Company defaults in paying any of its debts or honoring its debt covenants, it could experience cross-defaults among debt instruments, the debts could be accelerated and the Company could be forced to liquidate assets for less than the values it would otherwise receive.The Company is exposed to increases in interest rates, which could adversely impact its ability to refinance existing debt, sell assets or engage in acquisition and development activity.The Company receives a significant portion of its revenues by leasing its assets under long-term leases in which the rental rate is generally fixed, subject to annual rent escalators. A significant portion of the Company’s debt may be from time to time subject to floating rates, based on LIBOR or other indices. The generally fixed nature of revenues and the variable rate of certain debt obligations create interest rate risk for the Company. Increases in interest rates could make the financing of any acquisition or investment activity more costly. Rising interest rates could limit the Company’s ability to refinance existing debt when it matures or cause the Company to pay higher rates upon refinancing. An increase in interest rates also could have the effect of reducing the amounts that third parties might be willing to pay for real estate assets, which could limit the Company’s ability to sell assets at times when it might be advantageous to do so.Adverse trends in the healthcare service industry may negatively affect the Company’s lease revenues and the values of its investments.The healthcare service industry may be affected by the following:•trends in the method of delivery of healthcare services;•competition among healthcare providers;•lower reimbursement rates from government and commercial payors, high uncompensated care expense, investment losses and limited admissions growth pressuring operating profit margins for healthcare providers;•availability of capital;•credit downgrades;•liability insurance expense;•regulatory and government reimbursement uncertainty resulting from the Health Reform Law;•health reform initiatives to address healthcare costs through expanded value-based purchasing programs, bundled provider payments, accountable care organizations, state health insurance exchanges, increased patient cost-sharing, geographic payment variations, comparative effectiveness research, and lower payments for hospital readmissions;10Table of Contents•federal and state government plans to reduce budget deficits and address debt ceiling limits by lowering healthcare provider Medicare and Medicaid payment rates, while requiring increased patient access to care;•congressional efforts to reform the Medicare physician fee-for-service formula that dictates annual updates in payment rates for physician services, including significant reductions in the Sustainable Growth Rate, whether through a short-term fix or a more long-term solution;•heightened health information technology security standards for healthcare providers; and•potential tax law changes affecting non-profit providers.These changes, among others, can adversely affect the economic performance of some or all of the tenants and sponsoring health systems who provide financial support to the Company’s investments and, in turn, negatively affect the lease revenues and the value of the Company’s property investments.If the Company fails to remain qualified as a REIT, the Company will be subject to significant adverse consequences, including adversely affecting the value of its common stock.The Company intends to operate in a manner that will allow it to continue to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Although the Company believes that it qualifies as a REIT, it cannot provide any assurance that it will continue to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. The Company’s continued qualification as a REIT will depend on the satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. The Company’s ability to satisfy the asset tests depends upon the characterization and fair market values of its assets. The Company’s compliance with the REIT income and quarterly asset requirements also depends upon the Company’s ability to successfully manage the composition of the Company’s income and assets on an ongoing basis. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") will not contend that the Company has operated in a manner that violates any of the REIT requirements. If the Company were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, the Company would be subject to federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on its taxable income at regular corporate rates and possibly increased state and local taxes (and the Company might need to borrow money or sell assets in order to pay any such tax). Further, dividends paid to the Company’s stockholders would not be deductible by the Company in computing its taxable income. Any resulting corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to the Company’s stockholders, which in turn could have an adverse impact on the value of, and trading prices for, the Company’s common stock. In addition, in such event the Company would no longer be required to pay dividends to maintain REIT status, which could adversely affect the value of the Company’s common stock. Unless the Company were entitled to relief under certain provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Internal Revenue Code"), the Company also would continue to be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which the Company failed to qualify as a REIT.Even if the Company remains qualified for taxation as a REIT, the Company is subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on its income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed taxable income, and state or local income, franchise, property and transfer taxes. These tax liabilities would reduce the Company’s cash flow and could adversely affect the value of the Company’s common stock. For more specific information on state income taxes paid, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 11Table of ContentsDividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends. The federal tax rate applicable to income from “qualified dividends” payable to certain domestic stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates is currently the preferential tax rate applicable to long-term capital gains. Dividends payable by REITs, however, are generally not qualified dividends and do not qualify for the preferential tax rate. The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including the Company’s common stock. Complying with the REIT requirements may cause the Company to forego otherwise attractive opportunities. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, the Company must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of its income, the nature of its assets, the amounts it distributes to its stockholders and the ownership of its stock. The Company may be unable to pursue investments that would be otherwise advantageous to the Company in order to satisfy the source-of-income, or distribution requirements for qualifying as a REIT. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder the Company’s ability to make certain attractive investments.Qualifying as a REIT involves highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code for which only limited judicial and administrative authorities exist. Even a technical or inadvertent violation could jeopardize the Company’s REIT qualification. The Company’s continued qualification as a REIT will depend on the Company’s satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. In addition, the Company’s ability to satisfy the requirements to qualify as a REIT depends in part on the actions of third parties over which the Company has no control or only limited influence, including in cases where the Company owns an equity interest in an entity that is classified as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. New legislation or administrative or judicial action, in each instance potentially with retroactive effect, could make it more difficult or impossible for the Company to qualify as a REIT. The present federal income tax treatment of REITs may be modified, possibly with retroactive effect, by legislative, judicial or administrative action at any time, which could affect the federal income tax treatment of an investment in the Company. The federal income tax rules that affect REITs are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department, which results in statutory changes as well as frequent revisions to regulations and interpretations. Revisions in federal tax laws and interpretations thereof could cause the Company to change its investments and commitments and affect the tax considerations of an investment in the Company. There can be no assurance that new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions will not change the tax laws significantly with respect to the Company’s qualification as a REIT or with respect to the federal income tax consequences of qualification. The Company’s Articles of Incorporation contain limits and restrictions on transferability of the Company’s common stock which may have adverse effects on the value of the Company’s common stock.In order to qualify as a REIT, no more than 50% of the value of the Company’s outstanding shares may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code to include certain entities) during the last half of a taxable year. To assist in complying with this REIT requirement, the Company’s Articles of Incorporation contain provisions restricting share transfers where the transferee (other than specified individuals involved in the formation of the Company, members of their families and certain affiliates, and certain other exceptions) would, after such transfer, own (a) more than 9.9% either in number or value of the outstanding common stock of the Company or (b) more than 9.9% either in number or value of any outstanding preferred stock of the Company. If, despite this prohibition, stock is acquired increasing a transferee’s ownership to over 9.9% in value of either the outstanding common stock or any preferred stock of the Company, the stock in excess of this 9.9% in value is deemed to be held in trust for transfer at a price that does not exceed what the purported transferee paid for the stock, and, while held in trust, the stock is not entitled to receive dividends or to vote. In addition, under these circumstances, the Company has the right to redeem such stock. These restrictions on transfer of the Company’s shares could have adverse effects on the value of the Company’s common stock. 12Table of ContentsThe Company may experience uninsured or underinsured losses related to casualty or liability. The Company carries comprehensive liability insurance and property insurance covering its owned and managed properties. In addition, tenants under long-term single-tenant net leases are required to carry property insurance covering the Company’s interest in the buildings. Some types of losses, however, either may be uninsurable or too expensive to insure against. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, the Company could lose all or a portion of the capital it has invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. In such an event, the Company might remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligation related to the property. The Company cannot give assurance that material losses in excess of insurance proceeds will not occur in the future.The Company is subject to cyber security risks.A cyber-attack that bypasses the Company's information technology ("IT") security systems causing an IT security breach, may lead to a material disruption of the Company's IT business systems and/or the loss of business information resulting in an adverse business impact. Risks may include:•future results could be adversely affected due to the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of confidential data or intellectual property;•operational or business delays resulting from the disruption of IT systems and subsequent clean-up and mitigation activities; and/or•negative publicity resulting in reputation or brand damage with the Company's tenants, sponsoring health systems or other operators. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone. 