Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces significant risks. These risks include those described below and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. These risks should be read in conjunction with the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. THE GLOBAL ECONOMIC DOWNTURN HAS HAD AND MAY CONTINUE TO HAVE A NEGATIVE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS. The global economic downturn has caused, among other things, a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, and lower business spending, all of which has had and may continue to have a negative effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Many of our customers, distributors and suppliers have been affected by the current economic conditions. Current or potential customers may be unable to fund purchases or may determine to reduce purchases or inventories or may cease to continue in business, which has led to and could continue to lead to reduced demand for our products, reduced gross margins, and increased customer payment delays or defaults. In addition, suppliers may not be able to supply us with needed raw materials on a timely basis, may increase prices or go out of business, which could result in our inability to meet customer demand or could affect our gross margins. We also are limited in our ability to reduce costs to offset the results of a prolonged or severe economic downturn in light of certain fixed costs associated with our operations. The timing, strength or duration of any recovery in the global economic markets remains uncertain, and there can be no assurance that market conditions will improve in the near future or that our results will not continue to be materially and adversely affected. Such conditions make it very difficult to forecast operating results, make business decisions and identify and address material business risks. CONTINUED OR FURTHER DETERIORATION OF THE ECONOMY COULD LEAD TO REDUCED EARNINGS AND COULD RESULT IN FUTURE GOODWILL OR INTANGIBLE ASSET IMPAIRMENTS. The weakness in the global economy may also impact the valuation of certain long-lived or intangible assets that are subject to impairment testing, potentially resulting in impairment charges that may be material to our financial condition or results of operations. As of December 31, 2009, we have $234.2 million of goodwill and $79.2 million of intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet. We perform annual impairment tests of our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets and more often if indicators of impairment exist. During 2009, we recorded goodwill impairment charges of $37.5 million. The primary factors contributing to these goodwill impairment charges were lower assumptions for revenue and volume growth in 2009 and beyond and the associated impact on operating cash flow from these reduced projections, and the change in our assumption with respect to the probability of future cash flows from opportunities related to a license agreement. In addition, we determined that certain indefinite-lived trade names and a license agreement were impaired due to downward 9 Table of Contents revisions in estimates of future revenue and cash flows. As a result, we recorded an impairment loss of $1.6 million in 2009 relating to these intangible assets. We use a number of estimates and assumptions in calculating the estimated fair values of assets in our impairment testing, including future operating cash flow assumptions, future growth rates, future cobalt price assumptions and the weighted average cost of capital. Factors that could trigger an impairment review outside of the required annual review include the following: • significant underperformance relative to projected operating results; • significant changes in estimates of future cash flows from ongoing operations and/or from future opportunities related to current license agreements; • significant changes in discount rates used in our impairment testing; • further market capitalization deterioration; • significant negative industry or economic trends. Changes in our assumptions and estimates, or continued weakness or further deterioration in the economy, could materially affect the goodwill and intangible asset impairment tests. If any of these factors worsen, we may be required to recognize an additional goodwill and/or intangible asset impairment charge that may be material to our financial condition or results of operations. WE ARE AT RISK AS A RESULT OF CURRENT CIRCUMSTANCES AND DEVELOPMENTS IN THE DRC. A substantial amount of our supply of cobalt is sourced from the DRC, a nation that has historically experienced outbreaks of political instability, changes in national and local leadership and financial crisis. The global economic and financial market crisis along with the recent decline in metal prices has impacted the financial condition of the DRC. These factors heighten the risk of changes in the national and local policy towards investors, which, in turn, could result in modification of concessions or contracts, imposition of new and/or retroactive taxes and assessment of penalties, denial of permits or permit renewals or expropriation of assets. GTL has recently experienced an increase in claims by DRC national and local government agencies for additional taxes and customs duties and we cannot predict whether GTL will receive additional claims in the future. Furthermore, if additional claims are received, we cannot predict whether such additional claims will be successful, or, if successful, whether such claims would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. EXTENDED BUSINESS INTERRUPTION AT OUR FACILITIES COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE IMPACT ON OPERATING RESULTS. Our results of operations are dependent in large part upon our ability to produce and deliver products promptly upon receipt of orders and to provide prompt and efficient service to our customers. Any disruption of our day-to-day operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, customer relations and profitability. Our Kokkola, Finland facility is the primary refining and production facility for our Advanced Materials products. The GTL smelter in the DRC is the primary source for our cobalt raw material feed. Our Cleveland, Ohio facility serves as our corporate headquarters. These facilities are critical to our business, and a fire, flood, earthquake or other disaster or condition that damaged or destroyed any of these facilities could disable them. Any such damage to, or other condition significantly interfering with the operation of these facilities, such as an interruption of our supply lines, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to fully cover these potential risks. In addition, our insurance coverage may become more restrictive and/or increasingly costly, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable cost or at all. 10 Table of Contents WE ARE AT RISK FROM UNCERTAINTIES IN THE SUPPLY OF UNREFINED COBALT, WHICH IS OUR PRIMARY RAW MATERIAL. There are a limited number of supply sources for unrefined cobalt. Production problems or political or civil instability in supplier countries, primarily the DRC, Finland and Russia, have from time to time affected and may in the future affect the market price and supply of unrefined cobalt. In particular, political and civil instability and unexpected adverse changes in laws or regulatory requirements, including with respect to export duties and quotas, may affect the availability of raw materials from the DRC. If a substantial interruption should occur in the supply of unrefined cobalt from the DRC or elsewhere, we may not be able to obtain as much unrefined cobalt from other sources as would be necessary to satisfy our requirements at prices comparable to our current arrangements and our operating results could be adversely impacted. WE ARE AT RISK FROM FLUCTUATIONS IN THE PRICE OF COBALT AND OTHER RAW MATERIALS. Unrefined cobalt is the principal raw material we use in manufacturing Advanced Materials products, and the cost of cobalt fluctuates due to changes in the reference price caused by actual or perceived changes in supply and demand, and changes in availability from suppliers. Fluctuations in the price of cobalt have been significant in the past and we believe price fluctuations are likely to occur in the future. The London Metal Exchange (“LME”) is scheduled to commence trading in cobalt futures contracts in 2010. We are unable to predict the impact the trading of cobalt futures on the LME will have on cobalt price variability. Our ability to pass increases in raw material costs through to our customers by increasing the selling prices of our products is an important factor in our business. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain an appropriate differential at all times. We may be required under U.S. GAAP accounting rules to write down the carrying value of our inventory when cobalt and other raw material prices decrease. In periods of raw material metal price declines or declines in the selling prices of our finished products, inventory carrying values could exceed the amount we could realize on sale, resulting in a charge against inventory that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. THE MAJORITY OF OUR OPERATIONS ARE OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES, WHICH SUBJECTS US TO RISKS THAT MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS. Our business is subject to risks related to the differing legal and regulatory requirements and the social, political and economic conditions of many jurisdictions. In addition to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, risks inherent in international operations include the following: • potential supply disruptions as a result of political instability, civil unrest or labor difficulties in countries in which we have operations, especially the DRC and surrounding countries; • agreements may be difficult to enforce, may be subject to government renegotiation, and receivables difficult to collect through a foreign country’s legal system; • Customers in certain regions may have longer payment cycles; • foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign income, impose tariffs or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade or investment, including currency exchange controls; • unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements may occur, including with respect to labor, taxation, royalties, divestment, imports, exports, trade regulations, currency and environmental matters; and • submission to the jurisdiction and judgments of foreign courts or arbitration panels, including judgments that may involve a sovereign nation, may adversely affect our business. Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed in differing legal, regulatory, economic, social and political conditions. We cannot assure you that we will implement policies and strategies that will be effective in each location where we do business. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that one or more of the 11 Table of Contents foregoing factors will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We engage in business in certain countries where the risk of public sector corruption and bribery is high. We have implemented policies and procedures and conducted employee training to assure that our operations are in compliance with anti-bribery laws. If our compliance actions fail, a violation of anti-bribery laws could result in serious penalties, including criminal and civil sanctions. Such sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our business as a whole. WE MAY EXPERIENCE DIFFICULTIES TRANSITIONING EAGLEPICHER TECHNOLOGIES TO OM GROUP, INC. AND MAY NOT REALIZE THE EXPECTED BENEFITS OF THE ACQUISITION. The acquisition of EaglePicher Technologies involves the addition of lines of business in which we have not historically engaged and possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies that may increase the difficulties of the transition. The transition of EaglePicher Technologies will require the dedication of significant management resources and may temporarily divert management’s attention from operational matters. Employee uncertainty and lack of focus during the transition process may also disrupt our businesses. We may lose key personnel from the acquired organization and employees in the acquired organization may be resistant to change and may not adapt well to our corporate structure. The process of transitioning operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of our businesses. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the EaglePicher Technologies acquisition will depend in part upon our ability to transition EaglePicher Technologies operations in an efficient and effective manner, and we may be unable to accomplish the transition successfully. Inability to successfully transition the operations of EaglePicher Technologies could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, there may be liabilities of EaglePicher Technologies that we failed to or were unable to discover during the due diligence investigation and for which we, as a successor owner, may be responsible. Indemnities and warranties obtained from the sellers may not fully cover the liabilities due to limitations in scope, amount or duration, financial limitations of the indemnitor or warrantor or other reasons. WE INTEND TO CONTINUE TO SEEK ADDITIONAL ACQUISITIONS, BUT WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO IDENTIFY OR COMPLETE TRANSACTIONS, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR STRATEGY. Our strategy anticipates growth through future acquisitions. However, our ability to identify and consummate any future acquisitions on terms that are favorable to us may be limited by the number of attractive acquisition targets, internal demands on our resources and our ability to obtain financing. Our success in integrating newly acquired businesses will depend upon our ability to retain key personnel, avoid diversion of management’s attention from operational matters, and integrate general and administrative services and key information processing systems. In addition, future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional debt, costs and contingent liabilities. Integration of acquired operations may take longer, or be more costly or disruptive to our business, than originally anticipated, and it is also possible that expected synergies from future acquisitions may not materialize. We also may incur costs and divert management attention with regard to potential acquisitions that are never consummated. There may be liabilities of the acquired companies that we fail to or are unable to discover during the due diligence investigation and for which we, as a successor owner, may be responsible. Indemnities and warranties obtained from the seller may not fully cover the liabilities due to limitations in scope, amount or duration, financial limitations of the indemnitor or warrantor or other reasons. WE ARE EXPOSED TO FLUCTUATIONS IN FOREIGN EXCHANGE RATES, WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS. We have manufacturing and other facilities in North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific and Africa, and we market our products worldwide. Although a significant portion of our raw material purchases and product sales are transacted 12 Table of Contents in U.S. dollars, liabilities for non-U.S. operating expenses and income taxes are denominated in local currencies. In addition, fluctuations in exchange rates may affect product demand and may adversely affect the profitability in U.S. dollars of products provided by us in foreign markets where payment for our products is made in the local currency. Accordingly, fluctuations in currency rates may affect our operating results. WE ARE SUBJECT TO STRINGENT ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION AND MAY INCUR UNANTICIPATED COSTS OR LIABILITIES ARISING OUT OF ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS. We are subject to stringent laws and regulations relating to the storage, handling, disposal, emission and discharge of materials into the environment, and we have expended, and may be required to expend in the future, substantial funds for compliance with such laws and regulations. In addition, we may from time to time be subjected to claims for personal injury, property damages or natural resource damages made by third parties or regulators. Our annual environmental compliance costs were $10.9 million in 2009. In addition, we made capital expenditures of approximately $0.5 million in 2009 in connection with environmental compliance. As of December 31, 2009, we had reserves of $2.8 million for environmental liabilities. However, given the many uncertainties involved in assessing liability for environmental claims, our current reserves may prove to be insufficient. In addition, our current reserves are based only on known sites and the known contamination on those sites. It is possible that additional remediation sites will be identified in the future or that unknown contamination at previously identified sites will be discovered. This could require us to make additional expenditures for environmental remediation or could result in exposure to claims in the future. CHANGES IN ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH AND SAFETY REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS COULD AFFECT SALES OF OUR PRODUCTS. New or revised governmental regulations relating to health, safety and the environment may affect demand for our products. For example, the European Union’s REACH legislation, which has established a new system to register and evaluate chemicals manufactured in, or imported to, the European Union and requires additional testing, documentation and risk assessments for the chemical industry, could affect our ability to sell certain products. Such new or revised regulations may result in heightened concerns about the chemicals involved and in additional requirements being placed on the production, handling, or labeling of the chemicals and may increase the cost of producing them and/or limit the use of such chemicals or products containing such chemicals, which could lead to a decrease in demand. As a result of these regulations, customers may avoid purchasing some products in favor of perceived “greener,” less hazardous or less costly alternatives which could adversely affect sales of our products. Additional new regulations may require us to incur significant additional compliance costs. OUR RESTRUCTURING ACTIVITIES MAY NOT ACHIEVE THE RESULTS WE ANTICIPATE. We have undertaken and may continue to undertake organizational restructurings to optimize our asset base, improve operating efficiencies and generate cost savings. In connection with many of these actions we have projected one-time and on-going cost savings. We cannot be certain that we will be able to complete these initiatives as planned or that the estimated operating efficiencies or cost savings from such activities will be fully realized or maintained over time. In addition, we have announced the closure of the Manchester, England manufacturing facility. We may not be successful in migrating our customers from that facility to other facilities. We may make further specific determinations to consolidate, close or sell additional facilities. Possible adverse consequences resulting from the announced restructuring plan or from decisions to restructure additional facilities may include adjustments to existing accruals and/or additional charges related to workforce reductions, including severance and other termination benefits, lease termination obligations, facility decommissioning, demolition and environmental remediation costs and other exit costs. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO RESPOND EFFECTIVELY TO TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES IN OUR INDUSTRY OR IN OUR CUSTOMERS’ PRODUCTS. Our future business success will depend in part upon our ability to maintain and enhance our technological capabilities, develop and market products and applications that meet changing customer needs and successfully 13 Table of Contents anticipate or respond to technological changes on a cost-effective and timely basis. Our inability to anticipate, respond to or utilize changing technologies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Moreover, technological and other changes in our customers’ products or processes may render some of our specialty chemicals unnecessary, which would reduce the demand for those chemicals. BECAUSE WE DEPEND ON SEVERAL LARGE CUSTOMERS FOR A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF OUR REVENUES, OUR OPERATING RESULTS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY ANY DISRUPTION OF OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH THESE CUSTOMERS OR ANY MATERIAL ADVERSE CHANGE IN THEIR BUSINESSES. We depend on several large customers for a significant portion of our business. In 2009, our top five customers accounted for 26% of our net sales. Sales to Nichia Chemical Corporation represented approximately 16% of net sales in 2009. Any disruption in our relationships with our major customers, including any adverse modification of our agreements with them or the unwillingness or inability of them to perform their obligations under the agreements, could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, any material adverse change in the financial condition of any of our major customers would have similar adverse effects. WE OPERATE IN VERY COMPETITIVE INDUSTRIES, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR PROFITABILITY. We have many competitors. Some of our principal competitors have greater financial and other resources and greater brand recognition than we have. Accordingly, these competitors may be better able to withstand changes in conditions within the industries in which we operate and may have significantly greater operating and financial flexibility than we do. As a result of the competitive environment in the markets in which we operate, we currently face and will continue to face pressure on the sales prices of our products from competitors and large customers. With these pricing pressures, we may experience future reductions in the profit margins on our sales, or may be unable to pass on future raw material price or operating cost increases to our customers, which also would reduce profit margins. As we have few long-term commitments from our customers, this competitive environment could give rise to a sudden loss of business. INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION BY COMPETITORS MAY LEAD TO INCREASED COMPETITION AND MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS. There has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets. We believe that industry consolidation among our peers may result in stronger competitors with greater financial and other resources that are better able to compete for customers. This could lead to more variability in operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. FAILURE TO RETAIN AND RECRUIT KEY PERSONNEL WOULD HARM OUR ABILITY TO MEET KEY OBJECTIVES. Our key personnel are critical to the management and direction of our businesses. Our future success depends, in large part, on our ability to retain key personnel and other capable management personnel. It is particularly important that we maintain our senior management group that is responsible for implementing our strategic transformation. If we were not able to attract and retain talented personnel and replace key personnel should the need arise, the inability could make it difficult to meet key objectives and disrupt the operations of our businesses. 14 Table of Contents CHANGES IN EFFECTIVE TAX RATES OR ADVERSE OUTCOMES RESULTING FROM EXAMINATION OF OUR INCOME TAX RETURNS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION OR OPERATING RESULTS. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our worldwide provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. For example, our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by • earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates • changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities • the timing and amount of earnings of foreign subsidiaries that we repatriate to the United States • changes in the relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations, principles and interpretations. We are subject to tax audits in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income tax against us. The final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations in the period or periods for which that determination is made. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO ADEQUATELY PROTECT OR ENFORCE OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS, WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION, OR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. We rely on U.S. and foreign patents and trade secrets to protect our intellectual property. We attempt to protect and restrict access to our trade secrets and proprietary information, but it may be possible for a third party to obtain our information and develop similar technologies. If a competitor infringes upon our patent or other intellectual property rights, enforcing those rights could be difficult, expensive and time-consuming, making the outcome uncertain. Even if we are successful, litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against challenge could be costly and could divert management’s attention. OUR STOCK PRICE MAY CONTINUE TO BE VOLATILE. Historically, our common stock has experienced substantial price volatility, particularly as a result of changes in metal prices, primarily unrefined cobalt, which is our primary raw material. In addition, the stock market has experienced and continues to experience significant price and volume volatility that has often been unrelated to our operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. WE MAINTAIN CASH BALANCES IN U.S. AND FOREIGN FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR LIQUIDITY. While we monitor the financial institutions with which we maintain accounts, we may not be able to recover our funds in the event that a financial institution fails. As a result, this could adversely affect our ability to fund normal operations or capital expenditures. THE INSURANCE THAT WE MAINTAIN MAY NOT FULLY COVER ALL POTENTIAL EXPOSURES. We maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance but such insurance may not cover all risks associated with the hazards of our business and is subject to limitations, including deductibles and maximum liabilities covered. We may incur losses beyond the limits, or outside the coverage, of our insurance policies, including liabilities for environmental remediation. We are potentially at risk if one or more of our insurance carriers fail. Additionally, severe disruptions in the domestic and global financial markets could adversely impact the ratings and survival of some insurers. Future downgrades in the ratings of enough insurers could adversely impact both the availability of appropriate insurance coverage and its cost. In the future, we may not be able to obtain coverage at current levels, and our premiums may increase significantly on coverage that we maintain. 15 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has received no written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of its 2009 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 