ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS The price of the Company’s common shares is subject to the risks and uncertainty inherent in the Company’s business. You should consider the following factors as well as other information set forth in this annual report on Form 10-K, in connection with any investment in the Company’s common shares. If any of the risks described below occur, the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In such cases, the price of the Company’s common shares could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. (i)The Company has a history of losses from operations, and it may incur additional losses in the future. During the fiscal year ended December 25, 2005, the Company generated a net loss of US$3,266,000 under Canadian generally accepted accounting principles (“Canadian GAAP”). With the exception of the fiscal years ended December 28, 2003 and December 30, 2001 in which the Company had a net income of approximately US$228,000 and US$192,000 respectively under Canadian GAAP, the Company has incurred losses from operations during the last five years under Canadian GAAP. For the period ended December 25, 2005, such loss included a loss on foreign exchange of US$679,000 and interest costs of US$2,605,000 relating to the Company’s funding structure. Although the Company’s income from restaurant operations has improved, in light of the fact that interest costs associated with the Company’s funding structure will not be significantly reduced until December 2009 when such debts are scheduled to be repaid to GE Private Placement Partners II (“GEIPPPII”) and Crown Capital Partners (“Crown”) and the Company’s operations continue to remain subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, the Company may incur additional losses in the future unless its operations generate significant revenues to offset these expense items. If the Company continues to incur losses from operations in the future, this may adversely affect the price of the Company’s common shares. (ii)The Company’s results from operations are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company generates approximately Cdn$2,400,000 of operating cash flow from its Canadian restaurants each year, with these cash flows generated in Canadian dollars. Offsetting this revenue, the Company incurs approximately Cdn$2,700,000 of general and administrative expenses and approximately Cdn$600,000 in cash interest expenses. As at December 25, 2005 the Company had Cdn$13,800,000 of long-term debt denominated in Canadian dollars. The Company’s reported earnings are, therefore, subject to exchange rate fluctuations on the approximately Cdn$900,000 net cash outflow in Canadian dollars each year, and on its Canadian dollar denominated debt. During the year ended December 25, 2005, the Company incurred a loss of approximately US$679,000 as a result of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates due to the weakening of the US dollar against the Canadian dollar. If the US dollar continues to weaken or remains unchanged against the Canadian dollar, the Company’s revenues in Canadian dollars decrease and/or the Company’s expenses in Canadian dollars increase, or the Company fails -14- to hedge its exposure to foreign currency exchange rates in the future, the Company’s results from operations could be adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. (iii)The Company is dependent on certain key personnel. The Company’s performance and future operating results are substantially dependent upon the continued service and performance of the Company’s senior management, including its current Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Each of these individuals possesses significant operational knowledge and expertise about the Company, and the loss of services of such individuals could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and operating results. The Company currently maintains “key man” insurance for its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer. (iv)The concentration of ownership of the Company’s common shares and preferred shares with GEIPPPII results in GEIPPPII controlling all matters requiring shareholder approval. Although GEIPPPII disclaims beneficial ownership of certain securities held by management and other third parties that own securities in the Company, according to the latest amendment to the Schedule 13D filed by GEIPPPII and related persons, GEIPPPII beneficially owns 92.3% of the Company’s common shares. As discussed elsewhere in this annual report, a significant portion of this beneficial ownership interest was acquired by GEIPPPII through the Company’s new funding structure. See “Item 1. Business – Financings.” As a result, GEIPPPII is able to control all matters requiring shareholder approval including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may delay, deter or prevent actions that would result in a change of control and might affect the market price of the Company’s common shares. (v)The Company’s ability to raise capital in the future may be limited, which could adversely impact its operations and growth. Changes in the Company’s operating plans, acceleration of its expansion plans, lower than anticipated sales, increased expenses or other events described in this annual report may require us to seek additional debt or equity financing. Financing may not be available on acceptable terms and the Company’s failure to raise capital when needed could negatively impact its growth and its financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the ownership interest held by GEIPPPII and security interest that GEIPPPII and Crown possess in certain of the Company’s assets may further complicate and frustrate the Company’s ability to raise additional capital in the future. Additional equity financing, if obtained, may be dilutive to the holders of the Company’s common shares, and debt financing, if available, may involve significant cash payment obligations, significant renegotiation with existing debt holders in the Company and covenants that restrict the Company’s ability to operate its business. -15- (vi)The Company’s ability to expand its restaurant base is influenced by factors beyond its control and, therefore, it may not be able to achieve its planned growth. The Company’s growth strategy depends in large part upon its ability to open new restaurants and to operate these restaurants profitably. Delays or failures in opening new restaurants could impair the Company’s ability to meet its growth objectives. In the past, the Company has experienced delays in restaurant openings, for example with its two latest restaurant openings in Washington, DC, and Chicago, Illinois, in 2005, and may experience similar delays in the future. Further, the Company may encounter unforeseen cost over-runs when opening new restaurant locations, which might also contribute to, or result in, delays in restaurant openings. The Company’s ability to expand its business successfully will depend upon numerous factors, including: Obtaining adequate financing for the construction of new restaurants; Locating and securing a sufficient number of suitable new restaurant sites in new and existing markets on acceptable lease terms; Managing the amount of time and construction and development costs associated with the opening of new restaurants; Hiring, training and retaining skilled management, chefs and other qualified personnel to open, manage and operate new restaurants; Securing governmental approvals and permits required to open new restaurants in a timely manner, if at all; Successfully promoting the Company’s new restaurants and competing in the markets in which its new restaurants are located; and General economic conditions. Some of these factors are beyond the Company’s control. The Company may not be able to achieve its expansion goals and its new restaurants may not be able to achieve operating results similar to those of the Company’s existing restaurants. (vii)Unexpected expenses and low market acceptance could adversely affect the profitability of restaurants that the Company opens in new markets. The Company’s growth strategy includes opening restaurants in markets where it has little or no operating experience and in which potential customers may not be familiar with its restaurants. The success of these new restaurants may be affected by different competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns, and the Company’s ability to generate market awareness and acceptance of the Elephant & Castle brand. As a result, the Company may incur costs related to the opening, operation and promotion of these new restaurants that are greater than those incurred in other areas. Even though the Company may incur substantial additional costs with these new restaurants, they may attract fewer customers than the Company’s more established restaurants in existing markets. Sales at restaurants -16- the Company opens in new markets may take longer to reach its average annual sales, if at all. As a result, the results of operations at the Company’s new restaurants may be inferior to those of its existing restaurants. The Company may not be able to profitably open restaurants in new markets. (viii)A decline in visitors or business travelers to areas where the Company’s restaurants are located could negatively affect its restaurant sales. Many of the Company’s restaurants are located in hotel and resort areas. The Company depends on both local residents and business travelers to frequent these locations. The Company has experienced a decline in revenues in its downtown locations in the past, caused in part by decreases in business travel and the general decline in economic conditions. The Company may experience a similar decline in its revenues in the future. If the number of visitors to downtown areas were to decline due to economic or other conditions, changes in consumer preferences, changes in discretionary consumer spending or for other reasons, the Company’s revenues could decline significantly and the Company’s results of operations could be adversely affected. (ix)The Company’s growth may strain its infrastructure and resources, which could slow its development of new restaurants and adversely affect its ability to manage its existing restaurants. The Company opened two new company-owned restaurants in 2005, and the Company plans to open an additional company-owned restaurant in 2006. The Company’s expansion and its future growth may strain its restaurant management systems and resources, financial controls and information systems. Those demands on the Company’s infrastructure and resources may also adversely affect its ability to manage its existing restaurants. If the Company fails to continue to improve its infrastructure or to manage other factors necessary for the Company to meet its expansion objectives, the Company’s operating results could be materially and adversely affected. (x)Negative publicity concerning food quality, health and other issues and costs or liabilities resulting from litigation may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. The Company may be subject of complaints or litigation from customers alleging illness, injury or other food quality, health or operational concerns. Litigation or adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may materially and adversely affect the Company or its restaurants, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether the Company is liable. Further, these claims may divert the Company’s financial and management resources from revenue-generating activities and business operations. (xi)Health concerns related to the consumption of beef, chicken or other foods could affect consumer preferences and could negatively impact the Company’s results of operations. The Company may lose customers based on health concerns about the consumption of certain foods or negative publicity concerning food -17- quality, illness and injury generally, such as negative publicity concerning the accumulation of mercury or other carcinogens in seafood, e-coli, "mad cow" or "foot-and-mouth" disease, avian flu or “bird flu,” publication of government or industry findings about food products served by the Company or other health concerns or operating issues stemming from the food served in one of its restaurants. In addition, the Company’s operational controls and training may not be fully effective in preventing all food-borne illnesses. Some food-borne illness incidents could be caused by food suppliers and transporters and would be outside of the Company’s control. Any negative publicity, health concerns or specific outbreaks of food-borne illnesses attributed to one or more of the Company’s restaurants, or the perception of an outbreak, could result in a decrease in guest traffic to its restaurants and could have a material adverse effect on its business. (xii)The Company’s operations are susceptible to changes in food availability and costs, which could adversely affect its operating results. The Company’s profitability depends significantly on its ability to anticipate and react to changes in food-related costs. The Company relies on local, regional and national suppliers to provide its food products. Increases in distribution costs or sale prices or failure to perform by these suppliers could cause the Company’s food costs to increase. The Company could also experience significant short-term disruptions in its supply if a significant supplier failed to meet its obligations. The supply of seafood is more volatile than other types of food. The type, variety, quality and price of certain foods is subject to factors beyond the Company’s control, including weather, governmental regulation, availability and seasonality, each of which may affect the Company’s food costs or cause a disruption in its supply. Changes in the price or availability of beef, chicken and other foods served in the Company’s restaurants could affect its ability to offer a broad menu and price offering to customers and could materially adversely affect the Company’s profitability. (xiii)Labor shortages or increases in labor costs could slow the Company’s growth or harm its business. The Company’s success depends in part upon its ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including regional operational managers and regional chefs, restaurant general managers and executive chefs, necessary to continue the Company’s operations and keep pace with its growth. Qualified individuals are in short supply and competition for these employees is intense. If the Company is unable to recruit and retain sufficient qualified individuals, the Company’s business and its growth could be adversely affected. Additionally, competition for qualified employees could require the Company to pay higher wages, which could result in higher labor costs. If the Company’s labor costs increase, the Company’s results of operations will be negatively affected. -18- (xiv)The Company’s business is subject to significant competition. The restaurant industry is intensely competitive with respect to price, service, location, food quality, ambiance and the overall dining experience. The Company’s competitors include a large and diverse group of restaurant chains and individual restaurants that range from independent local operators to well-capitalized national restaurant companies. Some of the Company’s competitors have been in existence for a substantially longer period than it has and may be better established in the markets where the Company’s restaurants are or may be located. Some of the Company’s competitors may have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than it does. If the Company’s restaurants are unable to compete successfully with other restaurants in new and existing markets, the Company’s results of operations will be adversely affected. The Company also competes with other restaurants for experienced management personnel and hourly employees, and with other restaurants and retail establishments for quality restaurant sites. (xv)The Company’s success depends on its ability to protect its proprietary information. Failure to protect the Company’s trademarks, service marks or trade secrets could adversely affect its business. The Company’s business prospects depend in part upon its ability to develop favorable consumer recognition of the Elephant & Castle name. Although “Elephant & Castle” is a federally registered trademark with the United States Patent and Trademark Office, the Company’s trademark could be imitated in ways that it cannot prevent. In addition, the Company relies on trade secrets, proprietary know-how, concepts and recipes; however, the Company’s methods of protecting this information may not be adequate and others could independently develop similar know-how or obtain access to the Company’s trade secrets, know-how, concepts and recipes. Moreover, the Company may face claims of misappropriation or infringement of third parties’ rights that could interfere with the Company’s use of its proprietary know-how, concepts, recipes or trade secrets. Defending these claims may be costly and, if unsuccessful, may prevent the Company from continuing to use this proprietary information in the future, and may result in a judgment or monetary damages. The Company does not maintain confidentiality and non-competition agreements with all of its executives, key personnel or suppliers. If competitors independently develop or otherwise obtain access to the Company’s know-how, concepts, recipes or trade secrets, the appeal of its restaurants could be reduced and its business could be harmed. (xvi)You may have difficulty selling the Company’s common shares on the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board. The Company’s common shares are quoted only on the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board. Trading in stocks quoted on the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board is often thin and characterized by wide fluctuations in trading prices due to many factors that may have little to do with a company’s operations or business prospects. Moreover, the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board is not a stock exchange, and trading of securities on the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board is often more -19- sporadic than the trading of securities listed on a quotation system such as Nasdaq Global or Capital markets or a stock exchange such as the American Stock Exchange. Accordingly, you may have difficulty reselling your common shares of the Company. (xvii)If trading in the Company’s common shares is less than $5.00 per common share, trading in the Company’s common shares would be subject to certain rules under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. If the trading price of the Company’s common shares is less than US$5.00 per share, trading in the Company’s common shares would be subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trades involving a stock defined as a “penny stock.” A broker-dealer is required to deliver to each customer information regarding the risks of investing in penny stocks, its offer and bid prices for the penny stock and the amount of compensation received by the broker-dealer with respect to such transactions. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in the Company’s common shares, which could reduce the liquidity of the Company’s common shares, and thereby have a material adverse effect on the trading market for the Company’s securities. (xviii)The Company has never declared or paid dividends and it does not have plans to do so in the near future. The Company has never declared or paid any cash dividends on its common shares. The payment of any future dividends will be of the sole discretion of the Company’s board of directors. The Company currently intends to retain earnings to finance the expansion of its business and, therefore, it does not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. Therefore, you likely must rely upon the appreciation of the Company’s common share price to gain from your investment in the Company’s common shares. (xix)You may face difficulties in attempting to pursue legal actions under United States laws against the Company, its directors and officers. The Company was incorporated under the laws of the province of British Columbia, Canada. Most of the Company’s directors and officers are citizens or residents of countries other than the United States and certain of the Company’s assets and the assets of such persons are located outside of the United States. Consequently, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon the Company, its directors and officers or to realize in the United States upon judgments against such persons granted by courts of the United States based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or other laws of the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability against the Company and against its non-U.S. resident directors and officers, in original actions in Canadian courts, of liabilities based upon the U.S. federal securities laws and as to the enforceability against the Company and against its non-U.S. resident directors and officers in Canadian -20- courts of judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. As a result, it may not be possible to enforce those actions against the Company or against certain of its directors and officers. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 