Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business and Our Strategy We may not be successful in transitioning from our existing product portfolio to our new products, such as our myRisk Hereditary Cancer test, which represents the next generation of our existing hereditary cancer franchise. We may not be able to generate sufficient revenue from our existing tests and our new tests or develop new tests to maintain profitability. Although we have developed and marketed several molecular diagnostic tests to date, we believe our future success is dependent upon our ability to successfully market our existing molecular diagnostic tests to additional patients within the United States, to expand into new markets outside the United States, and to develop and commercialize new molecular diagnostic and companion diagnostic tests. Importantly, in 2014 we launched our myRisk Hereditary Cancer test, which represents the next generation of our existing hereditary cancer franchise. We anticipate that the myRisk Hereditary Cancer test will eventually replace our current predictive medicine test offerings (BRACAnalysis, Colaris, Colaris AP, Melaris, and Panexia) with a single comprehensive test. However, we may not be successful in transitioning from our existing product portfolio to our new tests and in launching and commercializing our new tests. The demand for our existing molecular diagnostic tests may decrease or may not continue to increase at historical rates due to sales of the myRisk Hereditary Cancer test and our other new tests that are replacing our existing product portfolio, or for other reasons. For example, because most of our molecular diagnostic tests are only utilized once per patient, we will need to sell our services through physicians to new patients or develop new molecular diagnostic tests in order to continue to generate revenue. Our pipeline of new molecular diagnostic and companion diagnostic test candidates is in various stages of development and may take several more years to develop and must undergo extensive clinical validation. We may be unable to discover or develop any additional molecular diagnostic or companion diagnostic tests through the utilization of our technologies or technologies we license or acquire from others. Even if we develop tests or services for commercial use, we may not be able to develop tests or services that: • meet applicable regulatory standards, in a timely manner or at all; • successfully compete with other technologies and tests; • avoid infringing the proprietary rights of others; • are adequately reimbursed by third-party payors; • can be performed at commercial levels or at reasonable cost; or • can be successfully marketed. We must generate significant revenue to maintain profitability. Even if we succeed in marketing myRisk Hereditary Cancer and our existing molecular diagnostic tests to physicians for use in new patients and in developing and commercializing any additional molecular diagnostic tests and companion diagnostic tests, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue and we may not be able to maintain profitability. We may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. In order to develop and commercialize our molecular diagnostic and companion diagnostic test candidates, we expect to incur significant expenses over the next several years as we increase our research and development activities, expand clinical validation trials for our molecular diagnostic tests and companion diagnostic tests currently in development, potentially license or acquire additional companies or technologies and engage in commercialization activities in anticipation of the launch of additional molecular diagnostic tests companion diagnostic tests. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing our tests and their potential for commercialization, we are unable to predict the extent of any future profits. If we are unable to sustain or increase profitability, the market value of our common stock will likely decline. Our ability to maintain profitability will depend upon numerous factors, including: • our ability to transition from our existing product portfolio to our new products, such as our MyRisk Hereditary Cancer test, and to commercialize these new tests; 18 Table of Contents • our ability to obtain full or partial reimbursement for new products; • our ability to sell our other existing molecular diagnostic tests to new patients; • our ability to identify biomarkers that may lead to future molecular diagnostic tests and companion diagnostic tests; • our ability to develop test candidates and receive any required regulatory approvals; • our ability to successfully commercialize our tests in our existing markets and to extend into new markets outside the United States; • the approval and introduction of competitive tests; • reductions in reimbursement by third-party payors or their willingness to provide full or even partial reimbursement for our tests; • our ability to maintain and enforce our intellectual property rights covering our molecular diagnostic tests and companion diagnostic tests; • our ability to maintain and grow our sales force and marketing team to market our tests; • our ability to successfully integrate, develop and grow products and services and the business of any other companies or technologies that we may license or acquire; • our ability to increase commercial acceptance of our current molecular diagnostic tests; and • our ability to maintain or grow our current revenues. If we do not continue to generate sufficient revenue from sales of our molecular diagnostic tests and are unable to secure additional funding, we may have to reduce our operations. As of June 30, 2014, we had $270.6 million in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014 our consolidated revenues were $778.2 million, and net cash from operating activities was $190.2 million. To develop and bring new molecular diagnostic tests and companion diagnostic tests to market, we must commit substantial resources to costly and time-consuming research, development testing and clinical testing. While we anticipate that our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and expected net cash to be generated from sales of our molecular diagnostic tests and pharmaceutical and clinical services will be sufficient to fund our current operations for the foreseeable future, changes could occur that would consume available capital resources more quickly than we currently expect and we may need or want to raise additional financing. If we are unable to secure additional funding, we may be required to reduce research and development projects, limit sales and marketing activities, scale back our expansion efforts outside the United States, reduce headcount or potentially even discontinue operations. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors that are currently unknown to us, including: • our ability to maintain the existing licenses to our molecular diagnostic tests and enter into collaborations, licensing or other arrangements favorable to us; • the scope, progress, results and cost of development, clinical testing and pre-market studies of any new molecular diagnostic tests that we may discover or acquire; • the progress, results, and costs to develop additional molecular diagnostic tests; • the costs by us or our licensors of preparing, filing and prosecuting patent applications, maintaining and enforcing our current issued patents, and defending intellectual property-related claims; • the costs of acquiring technologies or businesses, and our ability to successfully integrate and achieve the expected benefits of our business development activities and acquisitions; 19 Table of Contents • the progress, cost and results of our international expansion efforts; • the costs of expanding our sales and marketing functions and commercial operation facilities in the United States and in new markets; • the costs, timing and outcome of any litigation against us; and • the costs to satisfy our current and future obligations. We may acquire technologies, assets or other businesses that could cause us to incur significant expense and expose us to a number of unanticipated operational and financial risks. In addition to organic growth, we intend to continue to pursue growth through the acquisition of technology, assets or other businesses that may enable us to enhance our technologies and capabilities, expand our geographic market, add experienced management personnel and increase our test offerings. For example, in May 2011, we completed the acquisition of Rules-Based Medicine, Inc., which we renamed Myriad RBM, and are now offering pharmaceutical and clinical services and developing additional product candidates using the acquired technology. Additionally, in February 2014, we completed the acquisition of Crescendo Bioscience, Inc., and are now offering molecular diagnostic tests for patients suffering from rheumatoid arthritis and developing additional product candidates in the inflammatory and autoimmune disease area. However, these acquisitions may not achieve profitability or generate a positive return on our investment. Additionally, we may be unable to implement our growth strategy if we cannot identify suitable acquisition candidates, reach agreement on potential acquisitions on acceptable terms, successfully integrate personnel or assets that we acquire or for other reasons. Our acquisition efforts may involve certain risks, including: • we may have difficulty integrating operations and systems; • key personnel and customers of the acquired company may terminate their relationships with the acquired company as a result of the acquisition; • we may not be successful in launching new molecular diagnostic tests or companion diagnostic tests, or if those tests are launched they may not prove successful in the market place; • we may experience additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning and financial reporting; • we may assume or be held liable for risks and liabilities, including for environmental-related costs, as a result of our acquisitions, some of which we may not discover during our due diligence; • we may incur significant additional operating expenses; • our ongoing business may be disrupted or receive insufficient management attention; and • we may not be able to realize synergies, the cost savings or other financial and operational benefits we anticipated, or such synergies, savings or benefits may take longer than we expected. The process of negotiating acquisitions and integrating acquired tests, services, technologies, personnel or businesses might result in operating difficulties and expenditures and might require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business, whether or not any such transaction is ever consummated. Moreover, we might never realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition. Future acquisitions could result in the use of our available cash and marketable securities, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, or impairment expenses related to goodwill, and impairment or amortization expenses related to other intangible assets, which could harm our financial condition. In addition, if we are unable to integrate any acquired businesses, tests or technologies effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents We may not be able to successfully integrate the operations of businesses that we acquire with our own or realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate our recent acquisitions or develop or commercialize products based on recently acquired technologies, or that we will be able to successfully integrate any other companies, products or technologies that we acquire and may not realize all or any of the expected benefits of any acquisitions as and when planned. Additionally, we may experience increased expenses, distraction of our management, personnel and customer uncertainty. The difficulties and risks associated with the integration of any other businesses that we may acquire include: • possible inconsistencies in the standards, controls, procedures, policies and compensation structures; • the increased scope and complexity of the acquired company’s operations; • the potential loss of key employees and the costs associated to retain key employees; • risks and limitations on our ability to consolidate corporate and administrative infrastructures of the two companies; and • the possibility of unanticipated delays, costs or inefficiencies associated with the integration of our operations with the operations of any other companies that we may acquire. As a result of these difficulties and risks, we may not accomplish the integration of the business of any companies we may acquire smoothly, successfully or within our budgetary expectations and anticipated timetable. Accordingly, we may fail to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, such as increase in our scale, diversification, cash flows and operational efficiency and meaningful accretion to our diluted earnings per share. If we were successfully sued for product liability, we could face substantial liabilities that exceed our resources. Our business exposes us to potential liability risks inherent in the testing, marketing and processing of molecular diagnostic products, including possible misdiagnoses. Although we are insured against such risks in amounts that we believe to be commercially reasonable, our present professional and product liability insurance may be inadequate. A successful product liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any successful product liability claim may prevent us from obtaining adequate product liability insurance in the future on commercially desirable or reasonable terms. An inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our products. We are dependent on our information technology and telecommunications systems, and any failure of these systems could harm our business. We depend on information technology, or IT, and telecommunications systems for significant aspects of our business. These IT and telecommunications systems support a variety of functions, including sample processing, tracking, quality control, customer service and support, billing, research and development activities, and various general and administrative activities. Failures or significant downtime of our IT or telecommunications systems could prevent us from processing samples, providing test results to physicians, billing payors, addressing patient or physician inquiries, conducting research and development activities and conducting general and administrative elements of our business. Any disruption or loss of IT or telecommunications systems on which critical aspects of our operations depend could have an adverse effect on our business. 21 Table of Contents Security breaches, loss of data and other disruptions could compromise sensitive information related to our business, prevent us from accessing critical information or expose us to liability, which could adversely affect our business and our reputation. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including legally protected patient health information, credit card information, personally identifiable information about our employees, intellectual property, and proprietary business information. We manage and maintain our applications and data utilizing on-site systems. These applications and data encompass a wide variety of business critical information including research and development information, commercial information and business and financial information. The secure processing, storage, maintenance and transmission of this critical information is vital to our operations and business strategy, and we devote significant resources to protecting such information. Although we take measures to protect sensitive information from unauthorized access or disclosure, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers, or viruses, breaches or interruptions due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions, or lapses in compliance with privacy and security mandates. Any such virus, breach or interruption could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed by unauthorized parties, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. We have measures in place that are designed to detect and respond to such security incidents and breaches of privacy and security mandates. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, such as the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, government enforcement actions and regulatory penalties. Unauthorized access, loss or dissemination could also disrupt our operations, including our ability to process samples, provide test results, bill payors or patients, provide customer support services, conduct research and development activities, process and prepare company financial information, manage various general and administrative aspects of our business and damage our reputation, any of which could adversely affect our business. If our current operating plan changes and we find that our existing capital resources will not meet our needs, we may find it necessary to raise additional funding, which may not be available. We anticipate that our existing capital resources and expected net cash to be generated from sales of our molecular diagnostic tests will enable us to maintain our currently planned operations for the foreseeable future. However, we base this expectation on our current operating plan, which may change. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant costs in the discovery, development and marketing of current and prospective molecular diagnostic and companion diagnostic tests. Our ongoing efforts to develop tests and expand our business which may be through internally developed products, in licensing and mergers and acquisitions, will require substantial cash resources. If, due to changes in our current operating plan, adequate funds are not available, we may be required to raise additional funds. Sources of potential additional capital resources may include, but are not limited to, public or private equity financings, establishing a credit facility, or selling convertible debt securities. This additional funding, if necessary, may not be available to us on reasonable terms, or at all. If we issue shares of stock or other securities to acquire new companies or technologies, the ownership interests of our existing stockholders may be significantly diluted. Because of our potential long-term capital requirements, we may access the public or private equity or debt markets whenever conditions are favorable, even if we do not have an immediate need for additional capital at that time. Under SEC rules, we currently qualify as a well-known seasoned issuer, or WKSI, and can at any time file a registration statement registering securities to be sold to the public which would become effective upon filing. If additional funds are raised by issuing equity securities, existing shareholders may suffer significant dilution. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. If we raise additional funds through collaborations, strategic alliances and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies or tests, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. 22 Table of Contents Our business involves environmental risks that may result in liability for us. In connection with our research and development activities, we are subject to federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and policies governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, air emission, effluent discharge, handling and disposal of certain materials, biological specimens, chemicals and wastes. Although we believe that we have complied with the applicable laws, regulations and policies in all material respects and have not been required to correct any material noncompliance, we may be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental and health and safety regulations in the future. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of controlled materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, accidental contamination or injury from these materials may occur. In the event of such an occurrence, we could be held liable for any damages that result and any such liability could exceed our resources. Changes in healthcare policy could increase our costs, decrease our revenues and impact sales of and reimbursement for our tests. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, or the ACA became law. This law substantially changes the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers, and significantly impacts our industry. The ACA contains a number of provisions that are expected to impact our business and operations, some of which in ways we cannot currently predict, including those governing enrollment in federal healthcare programs, reimbursement changes and fraud and abuse, which will impact existing government healthcare programs and will result in the development of new programs. In addition to the ACA, there will continue to be proposals by legislators at both the federal and state levels, regulators and third-party payors to reduce costs while expanding individual healthcare benefits. Certain of these changes could impose additional limitations on the prices we will be able to charge for our tests or the amounts of reimbursement available for our tests from governmental agencies or third-party payors. We face risks associated with currency exchange rate fluctuations, which could adversely affect our operating results. We receive a portion of our revenues and pay a portion of our expenses in currencies other than the United States dollar, such as the Euro, the Swiss franc, the British pound and the Canadian dollar. As a result, we are at risk for exchange rate fluctuations between such foreign currencies and the United States dollar, which could affect the results of our operations. If the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions will result in decreased revenues, operating expenses and net income. We may not be able to offset adverse foreign currency impact with increased revenues. We do not currently utilize hedging strategies to mitigate foreign currency risk and even if we were to implement hedging strategies to mitigate foreign currency risk, these strategies might not eliminate our exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations and would involve costs and risks of their own, such as ongoing management time and expertise, external costs to implement the strategies and potential accounting implications. Risks Related to Commercialization of Our Tests, Our Services and Test Candidates We generate most of our revenues from a single product and we may not be able to maintain or increase revenue growth and profitability. Even though we have experienced double-digit revenue growth in our molecular diagnostic business every year since the initial launch of our first test in 1996; we may not be able to continue this revenue growth or maintain existing revenue levels. Presently, our molecular diagnostic business operates profitably providing a cash contribution to our current funding and operational needs. We may not, however, be able to continue to operate our molecular diagnostic business on a profitable basis. We launched our first molecular diagnostic test, BRACAnalysis, our test for hereditary breast and ovarian cancer, in November 1996. BRACAnalysis test sales 23 Table of Contents accounted for approximately two thirds of our revenues for the year ended June 30, 2014, and this percentage has been declining in recent years. An interruption or cessation of BRACAnalysis sample flow would have a material impact on our revenues and future profitability. Moreover, in 2014 we launched our myRisk Hereditary Cancer test, which represents the next generation of our existing hereditary cancer franchise. We may not be successful in transitioning from our existing product portfolio to our new products, such as MyRisk Hereditary Cancer Test, and in commercializing these tests over time. Other potential events or factors that may have a significant impact on our ability to sustain revenue growth and profitability for our molecular diagnostic business include the following: • increased costs of reagents and other consumables required for molecular diagnostic testing; • increased licensing or royalty costs, and our ability to maintain and enforce the intellectual property rights underlying our tests and services; • increased personnel and facility costs; • our inability to hire competent, trained staff, including laboratory directors required to review and approve all reports we issue in our molecular diagnostic business, and sales personnel; • our inability to obtain necessary equipment or reagents to perform molecular diagnostic testing; • our inability to increase production capacity as demand increases; • our inability to expand into new markets outside the United States; • the efforts of third party payors to limit or decrease the amounts that they are willing to pay for our tests; • changes in intellectual propriety law applicable to our patents or enforcement in the United States and foreign countries; • potential obsolescence of our tests; • our inability to increase commercial acceptance of our molecular diagnostic tests; • increased competition and loss of market share; and • increased regulatory requirements. Our international business exposes us to business, regulatory, political, operational, financial and economic risks associated with doing business outside of the United States. As part of our business strategy, we have expanded into international markets. We have established sales offices in Germany, Switzerland, France, Spain, the United Kingdom, Italy and Canada; laboratory operations in Germany; and international headquarters in Switzerland. We may establish additional operations or acquire additional properties outside the United States in order to advance our international sales Doing business internationally involves a number of risks, including: • failure by us to obtain regulatory approvals or adequate reimbursement for the use of our tests in various countries; • difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; • managing multiple payor reimbursement and self-pay systems; • logistics and regulations associated with shipping patient samples, including infrastructure conditions and transportation delays; • limits in our ability to penetrate international markets if we are not able to process tests locally; • financial risks, such as longer payment cycles, difficulty collecting accounts receivable and exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; 24 Table of Contents • political and economic instability, including wars, terrorism, and political unrest, outbreak of disease, boycotts, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions; • multiple, conflicting and changing laws and regulations such as tax laws, export and import restrictions, employment laws, regulatory requirements and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses; and • regulatory and compliance risks that relate to maintaining accurate information and control over sales and distributors’ activities that may fall within the purview of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practice Act, anti-boycott and other laws. Any of these factors could significantly harm our international operations and, consequently, our revenues and results of operations. In addition, any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could impact us in a variety of ways that include, but are not limited to, significant criminal, civil and administrative penalties, including imprisonment of individuals, fines and penalties, denial of export privileges, seizure of shipments, and restrictions on certain business activities. Also, the failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could result in the disruption of our distribution and sales activities. Our international operations could be affected by changes in laws, trade regulations, labor and employment regulations, and procedures and actions affecting approval, production, pricing, reimbursement and marketing of tests, as well as by inter-governmental disputes. Any of these changes could adversely affect our business. Our success internationally will depend, in part, on our ability to develop and implement policies and strategies that are effective in anticipating and managing these and other risks in the countries in which we do business. Failure to manage these and other risks may have a material adverse effect on our operations in any particular country and on our business as a whole. Foreign governments may impose reimbursement standards, which may adversely affect our future profitability. We market our tests in foreign jurisdictions and as such may be subject to rules and regulations in those jurisdictions relating to our testing. In some foreign countries, including countries in the European Union, the reimbursement of diagnostic tests is subject to governmental control. In these countries, reimbursement negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a test candidate. If reimbursement of our future tests is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if reimbursement rates are set at unsatisfactory levels, we may be unable to achieve or sustain profitability. We may experience increased price competition and price erosion, including price decreases from CMS and private payors. CMS has recently reduced the reimbursement rate for some of our products and as a result we may experience pricing pressures from managed care organizations and other third-party payors. Any declines in average selling prices of our products due to pricing pressures may have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our pharmaceutical testing services customers may reduce the amount of testing they conduct through us. If there is a change in the regulatory environment or intellectual property law, or our pharmaceutical testing services customers consolidate, our customers may divert resources from testing, resulting in a reduced demand for our laboratory testing services. Alternatively, customers may decide to perform their own laboratory testing services in-house. 25 Table of Contents We rely on a single laboratory facility to process each of our molecular diagnostic tests in the United States and Europe and a single laboratory facility to perform our pharmaceutical and clinical services. Failure to maintain the operations of these laboratories in compliance with applicable regulations would seriously harm our business. We rely on a CLIA-certified laboratory facility in Salt Lake City, Utah to perform most of our molecular diagnostic tests, a CLIA-certified laboratory in South San Francisco, California to perform our VectraDA test, a single laboratory facility in Munich, Germany to perform our international molecular diagnostic tests, and a CLIA-certified laboratory facility in Austin, Texas to perform our pharmaceutical and clinical testing services. These facilities and certain pieces of laboratory equipment would be difficult to replace and may require significant replacement lead-time. In the event our clinical testing facilities were to lose their CLIA certification or other required certifications or licenses or were affected by man-made or natural disasters, we would be unable to continue our molecular diagnostic and pharmaceutical and clinical services business at current levels to meet customer demands for a significant period of time. Although we maintain insurance on these facilities, including business interruption insurance, it may not be adequate to protect us from all potential losses if these facilities were damaged or destroyed. In addition, any interruption in our molecular diagnostic or pharmaceutical and clinical services business would result in a loss of goodwill, including damage to our reputation. If our molecular diagnostic or pharmaceutical and clinical services business were interrupted, it would seriously harm our business. We depend on a limited number of third parties for some of our supplies of equipment and reagents. If these supplies become unavailable, then we may not be able to successfully perform our research or operate our business on a timely basis or at all. We currently rely on a small number of suppliers to provide our gene sequencing equipment, content enrichment equipment, multiplex protein analysis equipment, robots, and specialty reagents and laboratory supplies required in connection with our research. We believe that currently there are limited alternative suppliers of these equipment, robots, and reagents. The equipment, robots, or the reagents may not remain available in commercial quantities at acceptable costs. If we are unable to obtain when needed additional or alternative equipment, robots, or an adequate supply of reagents or other ingredients at commercially reasonable rates, our ability to continue to identify genes and perform molecular diagnostic testing and pharmaceutical and clinical services would be adversely affected. Our molecular diagnostic and companion diagnostic tests in development may never achieve significant commercial market acceptance. We may not succeed in achieving significant commercial market acceptance of our diagnostic test and clinical service offerings that we have launched in recent years or that we are currently developing. Our ability to successfully develop and commercialize our current molecular diagnostic and companion diagnostic tests, as well as any future molecular diagnostic and companion diagnostic tests that we may develop, will depend on several factors, including: • our ability to convince the medical community of the clinical utility of our tests and their potential advantages over existing tests; • our ability to collaborate with biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies to develop and commercialize companion diagnostic tests for their therapeutic drugs and drug candidates; • the agreement by third-party payors to reimburse our tests, the scope and extent of which will affect patients’ willingness or ability to pay for our tests and will likely heavily influence physicians’ decisions to recommend our tests; and • the willingness of physicians to utilize our tests, which can be difficult to interpret. This difficulty is caused by the ability of our tests to predict only as to a probability, not certainty, that a tested individual will develop, have the disease, benefit from a particular therapy or has an aggressive form of the disease that the test is intended to predict. 26 Table of Contents These factors present obstacles to commercial acceptance of our tests, which we will have to spend substantial time and money to overcome, if we can do so at all. Our inability to successfully do so will harm our business. If we do not compete effectively with scientific and commercial competitors, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our tests. The clinical laboratory and genetics testing fields are intense and highly competitive. Tests that are developed are characterized by rapid technological change. Our competitors in the United States and abroad are numerous and include, among others, major diagnostic companies, reference laboratories, molecular diagnostic firms, universities and other research institutions. Some of our potential competitors have considerably greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do, which may allow these competitors to discover important genes and determine their function before we do. We could be adversely affected if we do not discover genes, proteins or biomarkers and characterize their function, develop molecular diagnostic and pharmaceutical and clinical services based on these discoveries, obtain required regulatory and other approvals and launch these tests and their related services before our competitors. We also expect to encounter significant competition with respect to any molecular diagnostic and companion diagnostic tests that we may develop or commercialize. Those companies that bring to market new molecular diagnostic and companion tests before we do may achieve a significant competitive advantage in marketing and commercializing their tests. We may not be able to develop additional molecular diagnostic tests successfully and we or our licensors may not obtain or enforce patents covering these tests that provide protection against our competitors. Moreover, our competitors may succeed in developing molecular diagnostic and companion diagnostic tests that circumvent our technologies or tests. Furthermore, our competitors may succeed in developing technologies or tests that are more effective or less costly than those developed by us or that would render our technologies or tests less competitive or obsolete. We expect competition to intensify in the fields in which we are involved as technical advances in these fields occur and become more widely known and changes in intellectual property laws generate challenges to our intellectual property position. If our current research collaborators or scientific advisors terminate their relationships with us or develop relationships with a competitor, our ability to discover genes, proteins, and biomarkers, and to validate and commercialize molecular diagnostic and companion diagnostic tests could be adversely affected. We have relationships with research collaborators at academic and other institutions who conduct research at our request. These research collaborators are not our employees. As a result, we have limited control over their activities and, except as otherwise required by our collaboration agreements, can expect only limited amounts of their time to be dedicated to our activities. Our ability to discover genes, proteins, and biomarkers involved in human disease and validate and commercialize molecular diagnostic and companion diagnostic tests will depend in part on the continuation of these collaborations. If any of these collaborations are terminated, we may not be able to enter into other acceptable collaborations. In addition, our existing collaborations may not be successful. Our research collaborators and scientific advisors may have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which could compete with us. Our research collaborators and scientific advisors sign agreements which provide for the confidentiality of our proprietary information and the results of studies conducted at our request. We may not, however, be able to maintain the confidentiality of our technology and other confidential information related to all collaborations. The dissemination of our confidential information could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we fail to retain our key personnel and hire, train and retain qualified employees and consultants, we may not be able to successfully continue our business. Because of the specialized scientific nature of our business, we are highly dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, scientific and technical personnel. We are currently recruiting additional qualified management, scientific and technical personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense. Loss of the 27 Table of Contents services of or failure to recruit additional key management, scientific and technical personnel would adversely affect our research and development programs and molecular diagnostic and pharmaceutical and clinical services business and may have a material adverse effect on our business as a whole. Our agreements with our employees generally provide for employment that can be terminated by either party without cause at any time, subject to specified notice requirements. Further, the non-competition provision to which each employee is subject expires for certain key employees on the applicable date of termination of employment. As we expand our commercial tests we may be required to incur significant costs and devote significant efforts to expand our existing tests sales and marketing capabilities. Our sales and marketing experience and capabilities consist primarily of our sales force that markets our cancer-related molecular diagnostic tests to oncologists, Ob/Gyns and urologists in the United States. We are currently expanding our sales efforts outside the United States, which will require us to hire additional personnel and engage in additional sales and marketing efforts. We have limited sales and marketing experience outside the Unites States. As we expand our business operations internationally, we expect to face a number of additional costs and risks, including the need to recruit a large number of additional experienced marketing and sales personnel. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we are not able to protect our proprietary technology, others could compete against us more directly, which would harm our business. As of June 30, 2014, our patent portfolio included 278 issued patents owned or licensed by us and numerous patent applications in the United States and other countries with claims covering our intellectual property rights. Our commercial success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain additional patents and licenses and protect our existing patent position, both in the United States and in other countries, for synthetic DNA , antibodies and related technologies, processes, methods and other inventions that we believe are patentable. Our ability to preserve our trade secrets and other intellectual property is also important to our long-term success. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may be able to use our technologies and erode or negate any competitive advantage we may have, which could harm our business and ability to maintain profitability. Patents may also issue to third parties which could interfere with our ability to bring our molecular diagnostic tests to market. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as U.S. laws, and we may encounter significant problems in protecting our proprietary rights in these countries. The patent positions of diagnostic companies, including our patent position, are generally highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions, and, therefore, any patents issued to us may be challenged, deemed unenforceable, invalidated or circumvented. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies and any future tests are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. Our patent applications may never issue as patents, and the claims of any issued patents may not afford meaningful protection for our technology or tests. In addition, any patents issued to us or our licensors may be challenged, and subsequently narrowed, invalidated or circumvented. Where necessary, we may initiate litigation to enforce our patent or other intellectual property rights, as we have done in the consolidated BRCA1 & BRCA2 Based Hereditary Cancer Test Patent Litigation pending in the U.S. District Court in Utah. Any such litigation may require us to spend a substantial amount of time and money and could distract management from our day-to-day operations. Moreover, there is no assurance that we will be successful in any such litigation. 28 Table of Contents The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain, and we cannot ensure that: • we or our licensors were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our patent applications; • we or our licensors were the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • any of our or our licensors’ patent applications will result in issued patents; • any of our or our licensors’ patents will be valid or enforceable; • any patents issued to us or our licensors and collaborators will provide a basis for commercially viable tests, will provide us with any competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties; • we will develop additional proprietary technologies or tests that are patentable; • the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our business; or • our patents or patents that we license from others will survive legal challenges, and remain valid and enforceable. If a third party files a patent application with claims to a biomarker we have discovered, the PTO may declare interference between competing patent applications. If an interference is declared, we may not prevail in the interference. If the other party prevails in the interference, we may be precluded from commercializing services or tests based on the biomarker or may be required to seek a license. A license may not be available to us on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. We also rely upon unpatented proprietary technologies. Although we require employees, consultants and collaborators to sign confidentiality agreements, we may not be able to adequately protect our rights in such unpatented proprietary technologies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or techniques or otherwise gain access to our proprietary technologies or disclose our technologies to our competitors. If we were sued for patent infringement by third parties, we might incur significant costs and delays in test introduction. Our tests may also conflict with patents that have been or may be granted to others. Our industry includes many organizations that have or are seeking to discern biomarkers and develop genomic, proteomic and other technologies. To the extent any patents are issued or have been issued to those organizations, the risk increases that the sale of our molecular diagnostic and companion diagnostic tests currently being marketed or under development may give rise to claims of patent infringement. Others may have filed and in the future are likely to file patent applications covering biomarkers that are similar or identical to our tests. Any of these patent applications may have priority over our patent applications and these entities or persons could bring legal proceedings against us seeking damages or seeking to enjoin us from testing or marketing our tests. Patent litigation is costly, and even if we prevail, the cost of such litigation could have a material adverse effect on us. If the other parties in any such actions are successful, in addition to any liability for damages, we could be required to cease the infringing activity or obtain a license. Any license required may not be available to us on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. Our failure to obtain a license to any technology that we may require to commercialize our tests could have a material adverse effect on our business. We believe that there may be significant litigation in the industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. If we become involved in this litigation, it could consume a substantial portion of our managerial and financial resources. 29 Table of Contents We may be unable to adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets, proprietary databases, and other proprietary information. We rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary technologies and databases, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and others to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy if unauthorized disclosure of confidential information occurs. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive position. If we fail to comply with our obligations under license or technology agreements with third parties, we could lose license rights that are critical to our business. We license intellectual property that is critical to our business, including licenses underlying the technology in our molecular diagnostic and pharmaceutical and clinical services, and in the future we may enter into additional agreements that provide us with licenses to valuable intellectual property or technology. These licenses impose various royalty payments, milestones, and other obligations on us. If we fail to comply with any of these obligations, the licensor may have the right to terminate the license. Termination by the licensor would cause us to lose valuable rights, and could prevent us from distributing our current tests, or inhibit our ability to commercialize future test candidates. Our business would suffer if any current or future licenses terminate, if the licensors fail to abide by the terms of the license, if the licensors fail to prevent infringement by third parties, if the licensed patents or other rights are found to be invalid or unenforceable, or if we are unable to enter into necessary licenses on acceptable terms. We may be subject to claims that we or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. As is commonplace in our industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. Risks Related to Government Regulation If we fail to comply with the complex federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that apply to our business, we could suffer severe consequences that could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations, all of which are subject to change. These laws and regulations currently include, among other things: • CLIA, which requires that laboratories obtain certification from the federal government; • FDA laws and regulations; • HIPAA, which established comprehensive federal standards with respect to the privacy and security of protected health information and requirements for the use of certain standardized electronic transactions; amendments to HIPAA under the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HITECH, which strengthen and expand HIPAA privacy and security compliance requirements, increase penalties for violators, extend enforcement authority to state attorneys general and impose requirements for breach notification; 30 Table of Contents • state laws regulating genetic testing and protecting the privacy of genetic test results, as well as state laws protecting the privacy and security of health information and personal data and mandating reporting of breaches to affected individuals and state regulators; • the federal anti-kickback law, or the Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting, receiving, or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing, arranging for, or recommending of an item or service that is reimbursable, in whole or in part, by a federal health care program; • the federal False Claims Act, which imposes liability on any person or entity that, among other things, knowingly presents, or causes to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment to the federal government; • the federal Civil Monetary Penalties Law, which prohibits, among other things, the offering or transfer of remuneration to a Medicare or state health care program beneficiary if the person knows or should know it is likely to influence the beneficiary’s selection of a particular provider, practitioner, or supplier of services reimbursable by Medicare or a state health care program, unless an exception applies; • other federal and state fraud and abuse laws, such as anti-kickback laws, prohibitions on self-referral, and false claims acts, which may extend to services reimbursable by any third-party payor, including private insurers; and • similar foreign laws and regulations that apply to us in the countries in which we operate. These laws and regulations are complex and are subject to interpretation by the courts and by government agencies. Our failure to comply could lead to civil or criminal penalties, exclusion from participation in government health care programs, or prohibitions or restrictions on our laboratories’ ability to provide services. We believe that we are in material compliance with all statutory and regulatory requirements, but there is a risk that one or more government agencies could take a contrary position, or that a private party could file suit under the qui tam provisions of the federal False Claims Act or a similar state law. Such occurrences, regardless of their outcome, could damage our reputation and adversely affect important business relationships with third parties, including managed care organizations, and other private third-party payors. Failure to comply with government laws and regulations related to submission of claims for our services could result in significant monetary damages and penalties and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs and corresponding foreign reimbursement programs. We are subject to laws and regulations governing the submission of claims for payment for our services, such as those relating to: coverage of our services under Medicare, Medicaid and other state, federal and foreign health care programs; the amounts that we may bill for our services; and the party to which we must submit claims. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in our inability to receive payment for our services or in attempts by government healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, to recover payments already made. Submission of claims in violation of these laws and regulations can result in recoupment of payments already received, substantial civil monetary penalties, and exclusion from government health care programs, and can subject us to liability under the federal False Claims Act and similar laws. The failure to report and return an overpayment to the Medicare or Medicaid program within 60 days of identifying its existence can give rise to liability under the False Claims Act. Further, a government agency could attempt to hold us liable for causing the improper submission of claims by another entity for services that we performed if we were found to have knowingly participated in the arrangement at issue. 31 Table of Contents Our business could be harmed by the loss, suspension, or other restriction on a license, certification, or accreditation, or by the imposition of a fine or penalties, under CLIA, its implementing regulations, or other state, federal and foreign laws and regulations affecting licensure or certification, or by future changes in these laws or regulations. The diagnostic testing industry is subject to extensive laws and regulations, many of which have not been interpreted by the courts. CLIA requires virtually all laboratories to be certified by the federal government and mandates compliance with various operational, personnel, facilities administration, quality and proficiency testing requirements intended to ensure that testing services are accurate, reliable and timely. CLIA certification is also a prerequisite to be eligible to bill state and federal health care programs, as well as many private third-party payors, for laboratory testing services. As a condition of CLIA certification, each of our laboratories is subject to survey and inspection every other year, in addition to being subject to additional random inspections. The biennial survey is conducted by CMS; a CMS agent (typically a state agency); or, if the laboratory holds a CLIA certificate of accreditation, a CMS-approved accreditation organization. Sanction for failure to comply with CLIA requirements, including proficiency testing violations, may be suspension, revocation, or limitation of a laboratory’s CLIA certificate, which is necessary to conduct business, as well as the imposition of significant fines or criminal penalties. In addition, we are subject to regulation under state laws and regulations governing laboratory licensure. Some states have enacted state licensure laws that are more stringent than CLIA. We are also subject to laws and regulations governing our reference laboratory in Germany. Changes in state or foreign licensure laws that affect our ability to offer and provide diagnostic services across state or foreign country lines could materially and adversely affect our business. In addition, state and foreign requirements for laboratory certification may be costly or difficult to meet and could affect our ability to receive specimens from certain states or foreign countries. Any sanction imposed under CLIA, its implementing regulations, or state or foreign laws or regulations governing licensure, or our failure to renew a CLIA certificate, a state or foreign license, or accreditation, could have a material adverse effect on our business. If the CLIA certificate of any one of our laboratories is revoked, CMS could seek revocation of the CLIA certificates of our other laboratories based on their common ownership or operation, even though they are separately certified. Changes in the way that the FDA regulates tests performed by laboratories like ours could result in delay or additional expense in offering our tests and tests that we may develop in the future. While the FDA does not currently regulate the activities or tests performed by laboratories like our clinical laboratories, the FDA has stated that it has the right to do so. In July, 2010, the FDA’s office of In-Vitro Diagnostics held a public meeting to discuss oversight of laboratory developed tests. The FDA highlighted the lack of standardized clinical validation at the assay level under current CLIA regulatory guidelines and noted that CLIA does not require post-market surveillance or monitoring of laboratory developed tests. The comment period for providing the FDA with written comments expired on August 15, 2010. On July 31, 2014, the FDA announced its intention to regulate many LDTs and to provide draft guidance in 60 days. If pre-market review is required, our business could be negatively impacted if we are required to stop selling molecular diagnostic tests pending their clearance or approval or the launch of any new tests that we develop could be delayed by new requirements. Companion diagnostic tests require FDA approval and we may not be able to secure such approval in a timely manner or at all. Our companion diagnostic products, marketing, sales and development activities and manufacturing processes are subject to extensive and rigorous regulation by the FDA pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDC Act), by comparable agencies in foreign countries, and by other regulatory agencies and governing bodies. Under the FDC Act, companion diagnostics must receive FDA clearance or approval before they can be commercially marketed in the U.S. The process of obtaining marketing approval or clearance from the FDA or by comparable agencies in foreign countries for new products could: • take a significant period of time; 32 Table of Contents • require the expenditure of substantial resources: • involve rigorous pre-clinical testing, as well as increased post-market surveillance: • require changes to products; and • result in limitations on the indicated uses of products. If the government and third-party payors fail to provide coverage and adequate payment for our tests and future tests, if any, our revenue and prospects for profitability will be harmed. In both domestic and foreign markets, sales of our molecular diagnostic tests or any future diagnostic tests will depend in large part, upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors. Such third-party payors include government healthcare programs such as Medicare, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. These third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by demanding price discounts or rebates and limiting both coverage on which diagnostic tests they will pay for and the amounts that they will pay for new molecular diagnostic tests. We have recently experienced price reductions from CMS for some of our products and may experience future price reductions from managed care organizations and other third-party payors. The fact that a diagnostic test has been approved for reimbursement in the past, for any particular indication or in any particular jurisdiction, does not guarantee that such a diagnostic test will remain approved for reimbursement or that similar or additional diagnostic tests will be approved in the future. Moreover, there can be no assurance that any new tests we launch, such as myRisk Hereditary Cancer, myPath Melanoma and myPlan Lung Cancer, will be reimbursed at rates that are comparable to the rates that we historically obtained for our existing product portfolio. As a result, third-party payors may not cover or provide adequate payment for our current or future molecular diagnostic tests. Adequate third-party reimbursement might not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on investment in product development. U.S. and foreign governments continue to propose and pass legislation designed to reduce the cost of healthcare. For example, in some foreign markets, the government controls the pricing of many healthcare products. We expect that there will continue to be federal and state proposals to implement governmental controls or impose healthcare requirements. In addition, the Medicare program and increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States will continue to put pressure on product pricing. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we would receive for any tests in the future, which would limit our revenue and profitability. Our business could be adversely impacted by the adoption of the ICD-10-CM Code Set. CMS has adopted a new coding set for diagnoses, commonly known as ICD-10-CM, which significantly expands the current coding set. ICD-10-CM is currently required to be used on all claims with dates of service on or after October 1, 2014. We may be required to incur significant expense in implementing ICD-10-CM, and, if we do not adequately implement it, our business could be adversely impacted. In addition, if as a result of the new coding set, physicians fail to provide appropriate codes for desired tests, we may not be reimbursed for tests we perform. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price is highly volatile, and our stock may lose all or a significant part of its value. The market prices for securities of molecular diagnostic companies have been volatile. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices for these securities for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The market price for our common stock has fluctuated significantly since public trading commenced in October 1995, and it is likely that the market price will continue to fluctuate in the future. Additionally, there is a significant short position in our common stock (over 38 million shares as of June 30, 33 Table of Contents 2014) and this short position introduces added uncertainty and volatility in our stock price. In the two years ended June 30, 2014, our stock price has ranged from $20.02 per share to $42.50 per share. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Events or factors that may have a significant impact on our business and on the market price of our common stock include the following: • failure of any of our recently launched tests and any new test candidates to achieve commercial success; • failure to sustain revenue growth or margins in our molecular diagnostic business; • changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems and changes in the governmental or private insurers reimbursement levels for our molecular diagnostic tests; • introduction of new commercial tests or technological innovations by competitors; • termination of the licenses underlying our molecular diagnostic and pharmaceutical and clinical services; • delays or other problems with operating our laboratory facilities; • failure of any of our research and development programs; • changes in intellectual property laws of our patents or enforcement in the United States and foreign countries; • developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights involving us directly or otherwise affecting the industry as a whole; • missing or changing the financial guidance we provide; • changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts relating to our common stock or the securities of our competitors; • changes in the governmental regulatory approved process for our existing and new tests: • failure to meet estimates or recommendations by securities analysts that cover our common stock; • public concern over our approved tests and any test candidates; • litigation; • future sales or anticipated sales of our common stock by us or our stockholders; • the timing and amount of repurchases of our common stock; • general market conditions; • seasonal slowness in sales, particularly in the quarters ending September 30 and March 31, the effects of which may be difficult to understand during periods of growth; • economic, healthcare and diagnostic trends, disasters or crises and other external factors; and • period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results. These and other external factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. In addition, securities class action litigation against companies has been on the rise. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit regardless of the outcome. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management. 34 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law, provisions in our charter and bylaws and re-adoption of our stockholders’ rights plan, or poison pill, could make a third-party acquisition of us difficult. Because we are a Delaware corporation, the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change in control would be beneficial to stockholders. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, which prohibits us from engaging in certain business combinations, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. In addition, our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws also contain certain provisions that may make a third-party acquisition of us difficult, including: • a classified board of directors, with three classes of directors each serving a staggered three-year term; • the ability of the board of directors to issue preferred stock; • a 70% super-majority shareholder vote to amend our bylaws and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation; and • the inability of our stockholders to call a special meeting or act by written consent. In the past, we also implemented a stockholders’ rights plan, also called a poison pill, which could make it uneconomical for a third party to acquire our company on a hostile basis. Although the plan expired in July 2011, our Board of Directors could adopt a new plan at any time. The provisions in a stockholders’ rights plan, as well as Section 203, may discourage certain types of transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market price, and may limit the ability of our stockholders to approve transactions that they think may be in their best interests. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 