Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business and Our Strategy We are a company in the early stages of development and commercialization and may never achieve the goals of our business plan. Although we have developed and marketed several molecular diagnostic products to date, we believe our future success is dependent upon our ability to successfully develop and commercialize additional molecular diagnostic products and our potential therapeutic products. All of our therapeutic products are still in development and many are still in the early stages of development. Our drug candidate Azixa is currently the subject of Phase 2 clinical trials for metastatic brain cancer and primary brain cancer. We are conducting a Phase 1 clinical trial for the evaluation of Vivecon for the treatment of AIDS. Our drug candidate MPC-2130 is currently the subject of a Phase 1 clinical trial for advanced metastatic tumors or blood cancers as well as refractory cancer that has progressed despite previous chemotherapy. Our drug candidate MPC-0920 has completed a Phase 1 clinical trial for the treatment of thrombosis. Other potential therapeutic products are in various stages of pre-clinical development. Any therapeutic products under development by us may take several more years to develop and must undergo extensive preclinical and clinical testing. Additionally, therapeutic products are subject to substantial regulatory review. We may be unable to discover or develop any therapeutic or additional predictive medicine products through the utilization of our technologies. Even if we develop products for commercial use, we may not be able to develop products that: • meet applicable regulatory standards, in a timely manner or at all; • successfully compete with other technologies and products; • avoid infringing the proprietary rights of others; • can be manufactured in sufficient quantities or at reasonable cost; or • can be successfully marketed. We must generate significant revenue to maintain profitability. Even if we succeed in developing and commercializing one or more of our therapeutic drug candidates or any additional molecular diagnostic products, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue and we may never be able to maintain profitability. We have a history of operating losses. We have a limited operating history and until our fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, have experienced operating losses since our inception. We had an accumulated deficit of $204.6 million as of June 30, 2008. In order to develop and commercialize our products, we expect to incur significant expenses over the next several years as we expand clinical trials for our product candidates currently in clinical development, including Azixa and Vivecon, advance our other product candidates into clinical trials, expand our research and development activities, and seek regulatory approvals and engage in commercialization activities in anticipation of potential FDA and other foreign regulatory approvals of our product candidates. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing our product candidates and their potential for commercialization, we are unable to predict the extent of any future profits. Additionally, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we are unable to sustain or increase profitability, the market value of our common stock will likely decline. Our ability to maintain profitability will depend upon numerous factors, including: • our ability to identify drug targets and lead compounds that may lead to future therapeutic products; • our ability to develop candidate drugs and receive required regulatory approvals; • our ability to obtain regulatory approval for and successfully commercialize our therapeutic products; • the approval and introduction of competitive products; • the willingness of third-party payors to provide full or even partial reimbursement coverage for our products; • our ability to develop a sales force and marketing team to market our therapeutic products; and • our ability to increase commercial acceptance of our current molecular diagnostic products and to develop and successfully commercialize additional molecular diagnostic products. • our ability to maintain or grow current product revenues. 12 Table of Contents If our current operating plan changes and we find that our existing capital resources will not meet our needs, we may find it necessary to raise additional funding, which may not be available. We anticipate that our existing capital resources will enable us to maintain currently planned operations for at least the next two years. However, we base this expectation on our current operating plan, which may change. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant costs in the discovery, development and marketing of current and prospective therapeutic and molecular diagnostic products. Our ongoing drug discovery programs and our efforts to develop therapeutic and molecular diagnostic products will require substantial cash resources. If, for example, we discover a new drug target with promising therapeutic properties, we would require funding in addition to our current operating plan to move the drug candidate into preclinical studies and clinical trials. Additionally, if a new disease gene is discovered through these efforts, we would require funds in addition to our current operating plan to demonstrate clinical utility and develop and launch a new molecular diagnostic product. If, due to changes in our current operating plan, adequate funds are not available, we may be required to raise additional funds. Sources of potential additional capital resources may include, but are not limited to, public or private equity financings, establishing a credit facility, or selling convertible debt securities. This additional funding, if necessary, may not be available to us on reasonable terms, or at all. Because of our potential long-term capital requirements, we may access the public or private equity markets whenever conditions are favorable, even if we do not have an immediate need for additional capital at that time. We have an effective shelf registration on file with the SEC pursuant to which up to $43.4 million of our securities remain available for sale at our discretion, subject to certain limitations under federal securities laws and the rules of the NASDAQ Global Select Market. In addition, under SEC rules, we currently qualify as a well-known seasoned issuer, or WKSI. Accordingly, while we are a WKSI, we can at any time file a registration statement registering additional securities which would become automatically effective upon filing. If additional funds are raised by issuing equity securities, existing shareholders may suffer significant dilution. We have limited sources of revenue and if we are unable to secure additional funding, we may have to reduce or discontinue operations. As of June 30, 2008, we had approximately $420.1 million in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 our revenues were approximately $333.6 million, and cash from operating activities was approximately $103.7 million. Our revenues resulted from sales of our molecular diagnostic products of $222.9 million, $100.0 million in pharmaceutical revenue, consisting of a non-refundable upfront fee received from H. Lundbeck A/S (Lundbeck) in connection with an agreement we entered into with Lundbeck for European commercialization of our former Alzheimer’s discease therapeutic candidate, Flurizan, and $10.8 million from our research collaborations and other projects. To develop and bring new molecular diagnostic products to market and to develop and bring our therapeutic product candidates to market, we must commit substantial resources to costly and time-consuming research, preclinical testing and clinical trials. While we anticipate that our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will be sufficient to fund our current operations for at least the next two years, we may need or want to raise additional financing within this period of time. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors that are currently unknown to us, including: • our ability to enter into strategic collaborations, licensing or other arrangements favorable to us; • the progress and results of our Phase 2 clinical trials for Azixa and any future trials we may initiate as a result of these trials; • the progress and results of our Phase 1 clinical trial for Vivecon and any future trials we may initiate based on the results of this trial; • the progress and results of our Phase 1 clinical trial for MPC-2130, and any future trials we may initiate based on the results of this trial; • our ability to partner MPC-0920 or results of future clinical trials for MPC-0920; • the results of our preclinical studies and testing for our preclinical programs, and any decisions to initiate clinical trials if supported by the preclinical results; • the costs, timing and outcome of regulatory review of Azixa, Vivecon, MPC-2130, and MPC-3100 and any other preclinical drug candidates that progress to clinical trials; • the scope, progress, results and cost of preclinical development, clinical trials and regulatory review of any new drug candidates we may discover or acquire; • the progress, results, and costs of developing additional molecular diagnostic products; • the costs of preparing, filing and prosecuting patent applications, maintaining and enforcing our issued patents, and defending intellectual property-related claims; 13 Table of Contents • the costs of establishing sales and marketing functions and commercial manufacturing capacities if any of our drug candidates is approved; • the costs to satisfy our obligations under potential future collaborations; and • the timing, receipt and amount of sales or royalties, if any, from Azixa, Vivecon, MPC-2130, MPC-0920, and any other drug candidates. Additional funds may not be available when we need them on terms that are acceptable to us, if at all. If adequate funds are not available on a timely basis, we may be required to: • terminate or delay preclinical studies, clinical trials, regulatory approvals, or other development for one or more of our drug candidates or molecular diagnostic products; • delay our establishment of sales and marketing capabilities, commercial manufacturing capabilities, or other activities that may be necessary to commercialize our drug candidates or molecular diagnostic products; • curtail significant discovery and development programs that are designed to identify new drug candidates or new molecular diagnostic products; or • enter into strategic collaborations that we would otherwise not enter into on terms less favorable than we may otherwise obtain. If we were successfully sued for product liability, we could face substantial liabilities that exceed our resources. Our business exposes us to potential liability risks inherent in the testing, marketing and processing of molecular diagnostic products, including possible misdiagnoses. In addition, clinical trials or marketing of any potential therapeutic products may expose us to liability claims from the use of these therapeutic products. Although we are insured against such risks in amounts that we believe to be commercially reasonable, our present product liability insurance may be inadequate. A successful product liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any successful product liability claim may prevent us from obtaining adequate product liability insurance in the future on commercially desirable or reasonable terms. An inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our products. Our business involves environmental risks that may result in liability for us. In connection with our research and development activities, we are subject to federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and policies governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, air emission, effluent discharge, handling and disposal of certain materials, biological specimens, chemicals and wastes. Although we believe that we have complied with the applicable laws, regulations and policies in all material respects and have not been required to correct any material noncompliance, we may be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental and health and safety regulations in the future. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of controlled materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, accidental contamination or injury from these materials may occur. In the event of such an occurrence, we could be held liable for any damages that result and any such liability could exceed our resources. Risks Related to Regulatory Approval of Our Drug Candidates and Other Government Regulations If we do not obtain required regulatory approval, we will be unable to market and sell our therapeutic candidates. Our therapeutic candidates are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and similar regulatory agencies in other countries relating to development, clinical trials, manufacturing and commercialization. In the U.S. and in many foreign jurisdictions, rigorous preclinical testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory review process must be successfully completed before a new therapeutic can be sold. Satisfaction of these and other regulatory requirements is costly, time consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. The time required to obtain approval by the FDA is unpredictable and depends on many factors, including the complexity of the therapeutic candidate. To date, our clinical-stage therapeutic candidates, Azixa, Vivecon, MPC-0920, and MPC-2130 have been studied in a relatively small number of patients. Early-stage clinical trials in small numbers of patients are often not predictive of results in later-stage clinical trials with a larger and more diverse patient population. Even therapeutic candidates with favorable results in late-stage pivotal clinical trials may fail to get approved for commercialization for many reasons, including: • failure to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities that a therapeutic candidate is safe and effective for a particular indication; 14 Table of Contents • inability to demonstrate that a therapeutic candidate’s benefits outweigh its risks; • inability to demonstrate that the therapeutic candidate presents a significant advantage over existing therapies; • the FDA’s or comparable foreign regulatory authorities’ disagreement with the manner in which we and our collaborators interpret the data from preclinical studies or clinical trials; • the FDA’s or comparable foreign regulatory authorities’ failure to approve our manufacturing processes or facilities or the processes or facilities of our collaborators; or • a change in the approval policies or regulations of the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities. It is possible that none of our current therapeutic candidates or any other therapeutic candidates we may seek to develop in the future will ever obtain the appropriate regulatory approvals necessary for us to begin selling them. Our clinical trials may not yield results that will enable us to obtain regulatory approval for our therapeutic candidates. We will only receive regulatory approval to commercialize a therapeutic candidate if we can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA or an applicable foreign regulatory agency, in well-designed and conducted clinical trials, that the therapeutic candidate is safe and effective and otherwise meets the appropriate standards required for approval for a particular indication. Clinical trials are lengthy, complex and extremely expensive processes with uncertain results. We have limited experience in conducting and managing the clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approvals, including approval by the FDA. In connection with the clinical trials of our current therapeutic candidates and any other therapeutic candidates that we may seek to develop in the future, we face risks including: • the therapeutic candidate may not prove to be safe and efficacious; • patients may die or suffer other adverse effects for reasons that may or may not be related to the therapeutic candidate being tested; • the results of later-stage clinical studies may not confirm the positive results of earlier trials; • the results may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA or other regulatory agencies for approval; and • the FDA or other regulatory agencies may require additional or expanded trials. Of the large number of drugs in development, only a small percentage result in the submission of an NDA to the FDA and even fewer are approved for commercialization. If we fail to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our therapeutic candidates, we will not be able to obtain the required regulatory approvals to commercialize these therapeutic candidates. Furthermore, even if we do receive regulatory approval to market a commercial product, any such approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which we may market the product. Because our therapeutic candidates are in an early stage of development, there is a high risk of failure, and we may never succeed in developing marketable products or generating product revenue. We have no therapeutic candidates that have received regulatory approval for commercial sale. Our most advanced therapeutic candidate is Azixa for the treatment of primary and metastatic brain tumors. Our next most advanced therapeutic candidate is Vivecon for the treatment of AIDS. We do not expect to have any commercial therapeutic products on the market for a number of years, if at all. Trial and error is inherent in drug discovery and development, and we may fail at numerous stages along the way. Success in preclinical studies of a drug candidate may not be predictive of similar results in humans during clinical trials, and successful results from early clinical trials of a drug candidate may not be replicated in later clinical trials. We may face additional challenges with some of our drug candidates that are members of new classes of drugs which attempt to modify the course of a disease rather than simply addressing the symptoms of the disease. Measurement of success, protocols and regulatory standards for such disease-modifying drugs have not been defined and are still evolving. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, including us, have suffered significant setbacks in late-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in early-stage development. Accordingly, the results from the completed and ongoing studies and trials for our therapeutic candidates may not be predictive of the results we may obtain in later-stage trials. 15 Table of Contents If clinical trials for our therapeutic candidates are prolonged or delayed, we may be unable to commercialize our therapeutic candidates on a timely basis, which would require us to incur additional costs and delay our receipt of any revenue from potential product sales. We may encounter problems with our completed, ongoing or planned clinical trials that will cause us or any regulatory authority to delay or suspend those clinical trials or delay the analysis of data derived from them. A number of events, including any of the following, could delay the completion of our ongoing and planned clinical trials and negatively impact our ability to obtain regulatory approval for, and to market and sell, a particular therapeutic candidate, including our clinical-stage drug candidates: • modifications or conditions imposed on us by the FDA or any foreign regulatory authority regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials, including modifications to or conditions imposed on ongoing trials based on the results and data from completed trials; • delays in obtaining, or our inability to obtain, required approvals from institutional review boards or other reviewing entities at clinical sites selected for participation in our clinical trials; • insufficient supply or deficient quality of our drug candidates or other materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials; • negative or inconclusive results from clinical trials, or results that are inconsistent with earlier results, that necessitate additional clinical study; • clinical trial holds imposed by the data safety monitoring committees for our trials due to serious and/or unexpected drug-related side effects experienced by subjects in clinical trials; or • failure of our third-party contractors or our investigators to comply with regulatory requirements or otherwise meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner. Our clinical trials may not begin as planned, may need to be restructured, and may not be completed on schedule, if at all. We meet with the FDA and other governmental and self-regulatory bodies from time-to-time regarding our research and clinical trials. Any such meeting could provide us with new information or requirements that would cause us to modify ongoing or future clinical trials or research efforts, which could delay or make commercially untenable such clinical trials or research efforts. Delays in our clinical trials may result in increased development costs for our drug candidates. In addition, if our clinical trials are delayed, our competitors may be able to bring products to market before we do and the commercial viability of our drug candidates, including our clinical-stage therapeutic candidates, could be significantly reduced. If we encounter difficulties enrolling subjects in our clinical trials, or subjects drop out of trials in progress, our trials could be delayed or otherwise adversely affected. Clinical trials for our therapeutic candidates require sufficient patient enrollment. We may not be able to enroll a sufficient number of qualified patients in a timely or cost-effective manner. Any delays in patient enrollment could result in increased costs and longer development times. Enrollment of patients is affected by many factors, including: • the limited size of the patient population for certain target indications; • the nature and design of the trial protocol; • the proximity of patients to clinical sites; • the availability of other effective treatments for the relevant disease (whether approved or experimental); • the eligibility criteria for enrollment in our clinical trials; • perceived risks and benefits of the drug candidate under study; and • competing studies or trials. Our failure to enroll patients in our clinical trials could delay the completion of the clinical trial beyond our current expectations. Furthermore, enrolled patients may drop out of our clinical trials, which could impair the validity or statistical significance of the clinical trials. In addition, the FDA could require us to conduct clinical trials with a larger number of subjects than we may have projected for any of our therapeutic candidates. If we have difficulty enrolling or retaining a sufficient number of patients to participate and complete our clinical trials as planned, we may need to delay or terminate ongoing or planned clinical trials. Delays in enrolling patients in our clinical trials or the withdrawal of subjects enrolled in our clinical trials would adversely affect our ability to develop and seek approval for our drug candidates, could delay or eliminate our ability to generate products and revenue and could impose significant additional costs on us. 16 Table of Contents Failure to comply with foreign regulatory requirements governing clinical trials and marketing approval for drugs could prevent us from selling our drug candidates in foreign markets, which may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement for marketing our therapeutic candidates outside the United States vary greatly from country to country and may require additional testing. We have no experience in obtaining foreign regulatory approvals for our therapeutic drug candidates. The time required to obtain approvals outside the United States may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or by the FDA. Failure to comply with these regulatory requirements or obtain required approvals could impair our ability to develop foreign markets for our therapeutic candidates. Our therapeutic candidates will remain subject to ongoing regulatory requirements even if they receive marketing approval, and if we fail to comply with requirements, we could lose these approvals and the sale of any approved commercial products could be suspended. Even if we receive regulatory approval to market a particular therapeutic candidate, the product will remain subject to extensive regulatory requirements, including requirements relating to manufacturing, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and record keeping. In addition, as clinical experience with a drug expands after approval because it is typically used by a greater number of patients after approval than during clinical trials, side effects and other problems may be observed after approval that were not seen or anticipated during pre-approval clinical trials. Such post-approval problems are sometimes not well understood until after a new drug has been on the market for some time. If we fail to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA and other applicable U.S. and foreign regulatory authorities or previously unknown problems with any approved commercial products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes are discovered, we could be subject to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions or other setbacks, including: • restrictions on the products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes; • civil or criminal penalties; • fines; • injunctions; • product seizures or detentions; • import bans; • product recalls and related publicity requirements; • suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; • total or partial suspension of production; and • refusal to approve pending applications for marketing approval of new products or supplements to approved applications. If we are unable to comply with applicable governmental regulations, we may not be able to continue our molecular diagnostic operations. The establishment and operation of our molecular diagnostic laboratory and the production and marketing of services and products developed through our technologies, as well as our ongoing research and development activities, are subject to regulation by numerous federal, state and local governmental authorities in the United States. We have been accredited under the Clinical Laboratory Evaluation Program by the Department of Health of the State of New York. Failure to maintain state regulatory compliance, or changes in state regulatory schemes, could result in a substantial curtailment or even prohibition of our molecular diagnostic operations and could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have also received federal accreditation from the Department of Health and Human Services under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments, or CLIA to operate our clinical laboratory. CLIA is a federal law that regulates clinical laboratories that perform testing on specimens derived from humans for the purpose of providing information for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of disease. To renew CLIA certification, laboratories are subject to survey and inspection every two years. Moreover, CLIA inspectors may make random inspections of these laboratories. If we were to lose our CLIA certification, whether as a result of a revocation, suspension or limitation, we would no longer be able to continue our molecular diagnostic operations which would have a material adverse effect on our business. 17 Table of Contents Furthermore, while the FDA has elected not to substantially regulate the activities or tests performed by laboratories like our clinical laboratory, the FDA has stated that it has the right to do so, and the FDA may seek to regulate or require clearance or approval of our molecular diagnostic products in the future. In September 2006, the FDA issued draft guidance on a new class of tests called In Vitro Diagnostic Multivariate Index Assays, or IVDMIAs. Under this draft guidance, some laboratory-developed tests may be determined to be IVDMIAs and could be classified as Class II or Class III medical devices, which may require varying levels of FDA pre-market review depending upon intended use and on the level of control necessary to assure the safety and effectiveness of the test. In July 2007, the FDA posted revised draft guidance on IVDMIAs. In this draft guidance, the FDA provides examples of devices that the FDA does not consider to meet the definition of IVDMIAs and that are outside the scope of its guidance document. One such category is genotype determination, which is the type of analysis performed for all our currently marketed products. The comment period for this revised guidance expired in October 2007, and it is not clear whether or when the FDA may finalize this draft guidance. We cannot provide any assurance, however, that FDA regulation, including pre-market review, will not be required in the future for our molecular diagnostic products. Extension of FDA regulation to our molecular diagnostic products may occur through new enforcement policies adopted by the FDA of new legislation enacted by Congress. If pre-market review is required, our business could be negatively impacted if we are required to stop selling molecular diagnostic products pending their pre-market clearance or approval Risks Related to Commercialization of Our Products and Product Candidates Our current molecular diagnostic products and therapeutic products in development may never achieve significant commercial market acceptance. We may not succeed in achieving significant commercial market acceptance of any of our products and services. While we have marketed several of our molecular diagnostic products for several years and have gained some market acceptance we need to convince physicians and consumers of the benefits of our current molecular diagnostic products in order to increase our sales of those products. Our ability to successfully commercialize our current molecular diagnostic products, as well as any future molecular diagnostic or therapeutic products that we may develop, will depend on several factors, including: • Our ability to convince the medical community of the safety and clinical efficacy of our products and their potential advantages over existing therapeutic products and molecular diagnostic products. • The agreement by third-party payors to provide full or even partial reimbursement coverage for our products, the scope and extent of which will affect patients willingness or ability to pay for our products and will likely heavily influence physicians’ decisions to recommend our products. • The willingness of physicians and patients to utilize molecular diagnostic products which are difficult to perform and interpret. This difficulty is caused by a combination of factors, including the large number, sometimes many hundreds, of different mutations in the genes which our tests analyze, the need to characterize each specific mutation, and the ability of our products to predict only as to a statistical probability, not certainty, that a tested individual will develop the disease for which the test has been completed. These factors present obstacles to commercial acceptance of our products, which we will have to spend substantial time and money to overcome, if we can do so at all. Our inability to successfully do so will harm our business. We may not be able to maintain or increase revenue growth and profitability for our molecular diagnostic products. BRACAnalysis, our product for breast and ovarian cancer, was the first molecular diagnostic product that we launched in November 1996. Sales of BRACAnalysis account for a majority of our molecular diagnostic revenues. An interruption or cessation of BRACAnalysis sample flow would have a material impact on our revenues and future profitability. We have experienced revenue growth in our molecular diagnostic business over past years; however, we may not be able to continue this revenue growth or maintain existing revenue levels. Presently, our molecular diagnostic business subsidiary operates profitably providing a cash contribution to our other funding and operational needs. We may not, however, be able to continue to operate our molecular diagnostic business on a profitable basis. Potential events or factors that may have a significant impact on our ability to sustain revenue growth and profitability for our molecular diagnostic business include the following: • increased costs of reagents and other consumables required for molecular diagnostic testing; 18 Table of Contents • increased licensing or royalty costs; • increased personnel and facility costs; • our inability to hire competent, trained staff, including laboratory directors required to review and approve all reports we issue in our molecular diagnostic business, and sales personnel; • our inability to obtain necessary equipment or reagents to perform molecular diagnostic testing; • our inability to increase production capacity as demand increases; • potential obsolescence of our products; and • our inability to increase commercial acceptance of our molecular diagnostic products. We rely on a single laboratory facility to process our molecular diagnostic tests. We rely on a single CLIA-approved laboratory facility in Salt Lake City, Utah to process our molecular diagnostic tests. This facility and certain pieces of laboratory equipment would be difficult to replace and may require significant replacement lead-time. This facility may be affected by natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods and fires. In the event our clinical testing facility or equipment is affected by man-made or natural disasters, we would be unable to continue our molecular diagnostic business and meet customer demands for a significant period of time. Although we maintain insurance on this facility, including business interruption insurance, it may not be adequate to protect us from all potential losses if this facility were damaged or destroyed. In addition, any interruption in our molecular diagnostic business would result in a loss of goodwill, including damage to our reputation. If our molecular diagnostic business were interrupted, it would seriously harm our business. We depend on the success of our lead product candidates, Azixa and Vivecon, which are still under development. We have invested significant resources in the development of Azixa and Vivecon. We anticipate that our future success will depend on the successful development and commercialization of Azixa for primary and metastatic brain tumors and Vivecon for HIV infected individuals. The commercial success of these product candidates will depend on several factors, including the following: • successful completion of our current Phase 2 clinical trials of Azixa for the treatment of primary and metastatic brain tumors, and any future trials we may conduct based on the results of the Phase 2 trials; • successful completion of our current Phase 1 clinical trial in Vivecon for the treatment of HIV infected individuals, and any future trials we may conduct based on the results of the Phase 1 trial; • receipt of marketing approvals from the FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities; • if approved, the successful commercial launch of Azixa or Vivecon; • producing batches of the active pharmaceutical ingredient used in Azixa or Vivecon in commercial quantities through a validated process; • manufacturing and supplying Azixa or Vivecon in sufficient quantities to meet commercial demand; and • acceptance of Azixa or Vivecon or competitive products in the medical community and with third-party payors. If we are not successful in developing or commercializing Azixa or Vivecon, or if we are significantly delayed in doing so, our business will be materially harmed and we may need to curtail or cease drug development operations. If we do not compete effectively with scientific and commercial competitors, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our products. The biotechnology research field is intense and highly competitive. This research is characterized by rapid technological change. Our competitors in the United States and abroad are numerous and include, among others, major pharmaceutical companies, reference laboratories, biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions. Many of our potential competitors have considerably greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do, which may allow these competitors to discover important genes and determine their function before we do. We could be adversely affected if we do not discover genes, proteins or protein pathways and characterize their function, develop therapeutic and molecular diagnostic products based on these discoveries, obtain regulatory and other approvals and launch these products and their related services before our competitors. We also expect to encounter significant competition with respect to any therapeutic or molecular diagnostic products that we may develop or 19 Table of Contents commercialize. Those companies that complete clinical trials, obtain required regulatory approvals and commence commercial sales of therapeutic products before we do may achieve a significant competitive advantage in marketing and commercializing their products. We may not be able to develop therapeutic or molecular diagnostic products successfully and may not obtain patents covering these products that provide protection against our competitors. Moreover, our competitors may succeed in developing therapeutic or molecular diagnostic products that circumvent our technologies or products. Furthermore, our competitors may succeed in developing technologies or products that are more effective than those developed by us or that would render our technologies or products less competitive or obsolete. We expect competition to intensify in the fields in which we are involved as technical advances in these fields occur and become more widely known. If our current research collaborators or scientific advisors terminate their relationships with us or develop relationships with a competitor, our ability to discover genes, proteins, biomarkers, and drug targets, and to commercialize therapeutic and molecular diagnostic products could be adversely affected. We have relationships with research collaborators at academic and other institutions who conduct research at our request. These research collaborators are not our employees. As a result, we have limited control over their activities and, except as otherwise required by our collaboration agreements, can expect only limited amounts of their time to be dedicated to our activities. Our ability to discover genes, proteins, biomarkers, and protein pathways involved in human disease and commercialize therapeutic and molecular diagnostic products will depend in part on the continuation of these collaborations. If any of these collaborations are terminated, we may not be able to enter into other acceptable collaborations. In addition, our existing collaborations may not be successful. Our research collaborators and scientific advisors may have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which could compete with us. Our research collaborators and scientific advisors sign agreements which provide for the confidentiality of our proprietary information and the results of studies conducted at our request. We may not, however, be able to maintain the confidentiality of our technology and other confidential information related to all collaborations. The dissemination of our confidential information could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we fail to retain our key personnel and hire, train and retain qualified employees and consultants, we may not be able to successfully continue our business. Because of the specialized scientific nature of our business, we are highly dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, scientific and technical personnel. We are currently recruiting additional qualified management, scientific and technical personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense. Loss of the services of or failure to recruit additional key management, scientific and technical personnel would adversely affect our research and development programs and molecular diagnostic business and may have a material adverse effect on our business as a whole. Our agreements with our employees generally provide for employment that can be terminated by either party without cause at any time, subject to specified notice requirements. Further, the non-competition provision to which each employee is subject expires for certain key employees on the applicable date of termination of employment. We have no experience manufacturing therapeutic products, and we currently intend to rely on third-party manufacturers to manufacture such products for us. We have no manufacturing experience and no commercial scale manufacturing capabilities for therapeutic products. We currently rely upon third parties to produce material for preclinical and clinical testing purposes and expect to continue to do so in the future. We also expect to rely upon third parties, including our collaborators, for the commercial production of approved therapeutic products. There are a limited number of manufacturers that operate under the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, regulations. If we are unable to arrange for third-party manufacturing of our products, or to do so on commercially reasonable terms, our clinical trials may be delayed, or we may not be able to complete development of our therapeutic products or market them. Reliance on third-party manufacturers also entails risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured products ourselves, including reliance on the third party for regulatory compliance and quality assurance, the possibility of breach of the manufacturing agreement by the third party because of factors beyond our control, the possibility of termination or non-renewal of the agreement by the third party, based on its own business priorities, at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us, and potential import/export issues with foreign manufacturers that we may use. Although we have no current intention to do so, if in the future we elected to 20 Table of Contents manufacture certain of our therapeutic products in our own manufacturing facilities, we would need to invest substantial additional funds and recruit qualified personnel in order to build or lease and operate any manufacturing facilities. We have limited sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, and with respect to our potential therapeutic products, we may be dependent on third parties to successfully perform these functions on our behalf, or we may be required to incur significant costs and devote significant efforts to augment our existing capabilities. We have limited sales, marketing and distribution experience and capabilities. These capabilities consist primarily of our sales force that markets our cancer-related molecular diagnostic products to oncologists and Ob/Gyns in the United States. We believe that if we develop therapeutic products in the area of cancer, given the concentrated nature of the oncology market, we would be able to leverage the efforts of our existing oncology sales force to market these products. However, depending on the nature of the therapeutic products and services for which we obtain marketing approval, we may need to rely significantly on sales, marketing and distribution arrangements with our collaborators and other third parties. For example, some types of pharmaceutical products require a large sales force and extensive marketing capabilities for effective commercialization. To date, we have not entered into an arrangement for marketing any current drug candidate, and we may not be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms when required. For therapeutic products for diseases with small medical specialty groups, we may elect to develop our own sales and marketing force. If in the future we elect to perform sales, marketing and distribution functions for such types of products ourselves, we would face a number of additional risks, including the need to recruit a large number of additional experienced marketing and sales personnel. We depend on a limited number of third parties for some of our supplies of equipment and reagents. If these supplies become unavailable, then we may not be able to successfully perform our research or operate our business at all or on a timely basis. We currently rely on a small number of suppliers to provide our gene sequencing machines, robots, and specialty reagents required in connection with our research. We believe that currently there are limited alternative suppliers of gene sequencing machines, robots, and reagents. The gene sequencing machines, robots, or the reagents may not remain available in commercial quantities at acceptable costs. If we are unable to obtain when needed additional gene sequencing machines, robots, or an adequate supply of reagents or other ingredients at commercially reasonable rates, our ability to continue to identify genes and perform molecular diagnostic testing would be adversely affected. If the government and third-party payors fail to provide coverage and adequate reimbursement rates for our products and future products, if any, our revenue and prospects for profitability will be harmed. In both domestic and foreign markets, sales of our molecular diagnostic products or any future drug or diagnostic products will depend in part, upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors. Such third-party payors include government health programs such as Medicare, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. These third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by demanding price discounts or rebates and limiting both coverage on which drugs or tests they will pay for and the amounts that they will pay for new drugs or molecular diagnostic products. The fact that a drug or diagnostic product has been approved for reimbursement in the past, for any particular indication or in any particular jurisdiction, does not guarantee that such a drug or diagnostic product will remain approved for reimbursement or that similar or additional drugs or diagnostic products will be approved in the future. As a result, third-party payors may not cover or provide adequate payment for our current or future molecular diagnostic products or, if approved, our drugs. We might need to conduct post-marketing studies in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of any future products to such payors’ satisfaction. Such studies might require us to commit a significant amount of management time and financial and other resources. Our future products might not ultimately be considered cost-effective. Adequate third-party reimbursement might not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on investment in product development. U.S. and foreign governments continue to propose and pass legislation designed to reduce the cost of healthcare. For example, in some foreign markets, the government controls the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals. In the United States, we expect that there will continue to be federal and state proposals to implement similar governmental controls. In addition, recent changes in the Medicare program and increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States will continue to put pressure on pharmaceutical product pricing. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we would receive for any products in the future, which would limit our revenue and profitability. Accordingly, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals might change before our drug candidates are approved for marketing. Adoption of such legislation could further limit reimbursement for pharmaceuticals. 21 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we are not able to protect our proprietary technology, others could compete against us more directly, which would harm our business. As of June 30, 2008, our patent portfolio included 312 issued patents owned or licensed by us and numerous patent applications in the United States and other countries with claims covering our intellectual property rights. Our commercial success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain additional patents and licenses and protect our existing patent position, both in the United States and in other countries, for drug targets we discover, for therapeutic compounds we develop, for predisposing genes we identify and related technologies, processes, methods and other inventions that we believe are patentable. Our ability to preserve our trade secrets and other intellectual property is also critical to our long-term success. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may be able to use our technologies and erode or negate any competitive advantage we may have, which could harm our business and ability to maintain profitability. Patents may also issue to third parties which could interfere with our ability to bring one or more of our drug candidates or molecular diagnostic products to market. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as U.S. laws, and we may encounter significant problems in protecting our proprietary rights in these countries. The patent positions of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, including our patent position, are generally highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions, and, therefore, any patents issued to us may be challenged, deemed unenforceable, invalidated or circumvented. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies, drug candidates, and any future products are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. To date there has not emerged from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or PTO, the U.S. courts, or from patent offices or courts in foreign countries, a consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents. Our patent applications may never issue as patents, and the claims of any issued patents may not afford meaningful protection for our technology or products. In addition, any patents issued to us or our licensors may be challenged, and subsequently narrowed, invalidated or circumvented. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain, and we cannot ensure that: • we or our licensors were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our patent applications; • we or our licensors were the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • any of our or our licensors’ patent applications will result in issued patents; • any of our or our licensors’ patents will be valid or enforceable; • any patents issued to us or our licensors and collaborators will provide a basis for commercially viable products, will provide us with any competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties; • we will develop additional proprietary technologies or drug candidates that are patentable; or • the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our business. If a third party files a patent application with claims to a drug target, gene or protein we have discovered, the PTO may declare an interference between competing patent applications. If an interference is declared, we may not prevail in the interference. If the other party prevails in the interference, we may be precluded from commercializing services or products based on the drug target, gene or protein, or may be required to seek a license. A license may not be available to us on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. We also rely upon unpatented proprietary technologies. Although we require employees, consultants and collaborators to sign confidentiality agreements, we may not be able to adequately protect our rights in such unpatented proprietary technologies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or techniques or otherwise gain access to our proprietary technologies or disclose our technologies to our competitors. 22 Table of Contents If we were sued for patent infringement by third parties, we might incur significant costs and delays in product introduction. Our products may also conflict with patents that have been or may be granted to others. Our industry includes many organizations seeking to rapidly identify drug targets, small-molecule compounds, proteins, and genes through the use of genomic, proteomic and other technologies. To the extent any patents are issued to those organizations on drug targets, proteins, genes or uses for such genes and proteins, the risk increases that the sale of our molecular diagnostic products currently being marketed or under development, and any sales of therapeutic drugs developed by us, may give rise to claims of patent infringement. Others may have filed and in the future are likely to file patent applications covering genes or drug targets that are similar or identical to our products. Any of these patent applications may have priority over our patent applications and these entities or persons could bring legal proceedings against us seeking damages or seeking to enjoin us from testing, manufacturing or marketing our products. Patent litigation is costly, and even if we prevail, the cost of such litigation could have a material adverse effect on us. If the other parties in any such actions are successful, in addition to any liability for damages, we could be required to cease the infringing activity or obtain a license. Any license required may not be available to us on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. Our failure to obtain a license to any technology that we may require to commercialize our products could have a material adverse effect on our business. We believe that there may be significant litigation in the industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. If we become involved in this litigation, it could consume a substantial portion of our managerial and financial resources. We may be unable to adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. We rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary technologies, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and others to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy if unauthorized disclosure of confidential information occurs. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive position. We rely on trade secrets and confidentiality in particular with respect to our drug discovery technology and any future competitive advantage provided by it. We may not enjoy any such competitive advantage if we are not able to effectively maintain and enforce any trade secret rights relating to our drug discovery technology. If we fail to comply with our obligations under license or technology agreements with third parties, we could lose license rights that are important to our business. We license intellectual property that is important to our business, and in the future we may enter into additional agreements that provide us with licenses to valuable intellectual property or technology. These licenses impose various royalty payments, milestones, and other obligations on us. If we fail to comply with any of these obligations, the licensor may have the right to terminate the license. Termination by the licensor would cause us to lose valuable rights, the ability to distribute our current products, or inhibit our ability to commercialize future product candidates. Our business may suffer if any current or future licenses terminate, if the licensors fail to abide by the terms of the license, if the licensors fail to prevent infringement by third parties, if the licensed patents or other rights are found to be invalid or unenforceable, or if we are unable to enter into necessary licenses on acceptable terms. We may be subject to claims that we or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. As is commonplace in our industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. 23 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price is highly volatile, and our stock may lose all or a significant part of its value. The market prices for securities of biotechnology companies have been volatile. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices for these securities for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The market price for our common stock has fluctuated significantly since public trading commenced in October 1995, and it is likely that the market price will continue to fluctuate in the future. In the two years ended June 30, 2008, our stock price has ranged from $21.72 per share to $59.18 per share. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Events or factors that may have a significant impact on our business and on the market price of our common stock include the following: • results of our Phase 2 clinical trials for Azixa and any future clinical trials we may conduct based on the results of the Phase 2 trials; • results of our current Phase 1 clinical trials of Vivecon for the treatment of AIDS and any future trials that we may initiate based on the results of the Phase 1 trial; • results of our Phase 1 clinical trial for MPC-2130, and any future trials we may initiate based on the results of our current trial; • our ability to partner MPC-0920 or results of future clinical trials for MPC-0920; • results of clinical trials conducted by others on drugs that would compete with our drug candidates; • failure or delays in advancing drug candidates from our preclinical programs, or other drug candidates we may discover or acquire in the future, into clinical trials; • failure or discontinuation of any of our research programs; • our entry into or the loss of a significant collaboration; • delays or other problems with manufacturing our drug candidates or approved products; • regulatory developments or enforcement in the United States and foreign countries; • developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights involving us directly or otherwise affecting the industry as a whole; • introduction of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors; • changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts relating to our common stock or the securities of our competitors; • failure to meet estimates or recommendations by securities analysts that cover our common stock; • public concern over our drug candidates or any approved products; • litigation; • future sales or anticipated sales of our common stock by us or our stockholders; • general market conditions; • changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems; • failure to sustain revenue growth or margins in our molecular diagnostic business; • failure of any of our drug candidates, if approved, to achieve commercial success; • seasonal slowness in sales, particularly in the quarters ending September 30 and March 31, the effects of which may be difficult to understand during periods of growth; • economic, healthcare and biotechnology trends, disasters or crises and other external factors; and • period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results. These and other external factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. In addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit regardless of the outcome. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management. Anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law, provisions in our charter and bylaws and our stockholders’ rights plan, or poison pill, could make a third-party acquisition of us difficult. Because we are a Delaware corporation, the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change in control would be beneficial to stockholders. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, which prohibits us from engaging in certain business combinations, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. In addition, our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws also contain certain provisions that may make a third-party acquisition of us difficult, including: • a classified board of directors, with three classes of directors each serving a staggered three-year term; 24 Table of Contents • the ability of the board of directors to issue preferred stock; • a 70% super-majority shareholder vote to amend our bylaws and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation; and • the inability of our stockholders to call a special meeting or act by written consent. We also have implemented a stockholders’ rights plan, also called a poison pill, which could make it uneconomical for a third party to acquire our company on a hostile basis. These provisions, as well as Section 203, may discourage certain types of transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market price, and may limit the ability of our stockholders to approve transactions that they think may be in their best interests. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 