Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business and Our Strategy We may not be able to generate sufficient revenue from our existing products or develop new products to maintain profitability and may never achieve the goals of our business plan. Although we have developed and marketed several molecular diagnostic products to date, we believe our future success is dependent upon our ability to successfully market our existing molecular diagnostic products to new patients and to develop and commercialize new molecular diagnostic products. The demand for our existing molecular diagnostic products may decrease or may not continue to increase at historical rates. For example, we believe that revenue for our fiscal 2009 fourth quarter was impacted by the economic recession, which is driving increasing unemployment levels and resulting in the loss of insurance coverage and patients delaying or cancelling doctor visits. In addition, because BRACAnalysis and most of our molecular diagnostic products are only utilized once per patient, we will need to sell our services through physicians to new patients or develop new molecular diagnostic products in order to continue to generate revenue. Our pipeline of new molecular diagnostic candidates is in various stages of development and may take several more years to develop and must undergo extensive clinical validation. We may be unable to discover or develop any additional molecular diagnostic products through the utilization of our technologies or technologies we license from others. Even if we develop products for commercial use, we may not be able to develop products that: • meet applicable regulatory standards, in a timely manner or at all; • successfully compete with other technologies and products; • avoid infringing the proprietary rights of others; • can be performed at commercial levels or at reasonable cost; or • can be successfully marketed. We must generate significant revenue to maintain profitability. Even if we succeed in marketing our existing molecular diagnostic products to new patients and in developing and commercializing any additional molecular diagnostic products, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue and we may not be able to maintain profitability. We have a history of operating losses. Until our fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, we have experienced net losses since our inception in 1992. We had an accumulated deficit of $119.9 million as of June 30, 2009. In order to develop and commercialize our molecular diagnostic product candidates, we expect to incur significant expenses over the next several years as we increase our research and development activities, expand clinical validation trials for our molecular diagnostic product candidates currently in development and engage in commercialization activities in anticipation of the launch of our product candidates. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing our product candidates and their potential for commercialization, we are unable to predict the extent of any future profits. Additionally, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we are unable to sustain or increase profitability, the market value of our common stock will likely decline. Our ability to maintain profitability will depend upon numerous factors, including: • our ability to sell our existing molecular diagnostic products to new patients; • our ability to identify biomarkers that may lead to future molecular diagnostic products; • our ability to develop candidate products and receive required regulatory approvals; • our ability to successfully commercialize our products; • the approval and introduction of competitive products; • the willingness of third-party payors to provide full or even partial reimbursement for our products; 10 Table of Contents • our ability to maintain and grow our sales force and marketing team to market our products; • our ability to increase commercial acceptance of our current molecular diagnostic products; and • our ability to maintain or grow our current product revenues. If our current operating plan changes and we find that our existing capital resources will not meet our needs, we may find it necessary to raise additional funding, which may not be available. We anticipate that our existing capital resources and expected net cash to be generated from sales of our molecular diagnostic products will enable us to maintain our currently planned operations for at least the next two years. However, we base this expectation on our current operating plan, which may change. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant costs in the discovery, development and marketing of current and prospective molecular diagnostic products. Our ongoing efforts to develop products will require substantial cash resources. If, for example, a new disease gene is discovered through our research efforts, we would require funds in addition to our current operating plan to demonstrate clinical utility and develop and launch a new molecular diagnostic product. If, due to changes in our current operating plan, adequate funds are not available, we may be required to raise additional funds. Sources of potential additional capital resources may include, but are not limited to, public or private equity financings, establishing a credit facility, or selling convertible debt securities. This additional funding, if necessary, may not be available to us on reasonable terms, or at all. Because of our potential long-term capital requirements, we may access the public or private equity or debt markets whenever conditions are favorable, even if we do not have an immediate need for additional capital at that time. Under SEC rules, we currently qualify as a well-known seasoned issuer, or WKSI, and can at any time file a registration statement registering securities to be sold to the public which would become effective upon filing. If additional funds are raised by issuing equity securities, existing shareholders may suffer significant dilution. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. If we raise additional funds through collaborations, strategic alliances and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies or products, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we do not continue to generate sufficient revenue from sales of our molecular diagnostic products and are unable to secure additional funding, we may have to reduce or discontinue operations. As of June 30, 2009, we had approximately $392.2 million in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 our molecular diagnostic revenues were approximately $326.5 million, and net cash from operating activities was approximately $84.0 million. To develop and bring new molecular diagnostic products to market, we must commit substantial resources to costly and time-consuming research, development testing and clinical testing. While we anticipate that our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and expected net cash to be generated from sales of our molecular diagnostic products will be sufficient to fund our current operations for at least the next two years, we may need or want to raise additional financing within this period of time. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors that are currently unknown to us, including: • our ability to maintain the existing licenses to our molecular diagnostic products and enter into collaborations, licensing or other arrangements favorable to us; • the scope, progress, results and cost of development, clinical testing and pre-market studies of any new molecular diagnostic products that we may discover or acquire; • the progress, results, and costs to develop additional molecular diagnostic products; • the costs by us or our licensors of preparing, filing and prosecuting patent applications, maintaining and enforcing our current issued patents, and defending intellectual property-related claims; • the costs of acquiring other molecular diagnostic companies; 11 Table of Contents • the costs of expanding our sales and marketing functions and commercial operation facilities; and • the costs to satisfy our current and future obligations. If we were successfully sued for product liability, we could face substantial liabilities that exceed our resources. Our business exposes us to potential liability risks inherent in the testing, marketing and processing of molecular diagnostic products, including possible misdiagnoses. Although we are insured against such risks in amounts that we believe to be commercially reasonable, our present professional and product liability insurance may be inadequate. A successful product liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any successful product liability claim may prevent us from obtaining adequate product liability insurance in the future on commercially desirable or reasonable terms. An inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our products. Our business involves environmental risks that may result in liability for us. In connection with our research and development activities, we are subject to federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and policies governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, air emission, effluent discharge, handling and disposal of certain materials, biological specimens, chemicals and wastes. Although we believe that we have complied with the applicable laws, regulations and policies in all material respects and have not been required to correct any material noncompliance, we may be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental and health and safety regulations in the future. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of controlled materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, accidental contamination or injury from these materials may occur. In the event of such an occurrence, we could be held liable for any damages that result and any such liability could exceed our resources. If we are unable to comply with applicable governmental regulations, we may not be able to continue our operations. The establishment and operation of our laboratory and the production and marketing of services and products developed through our technologies, as well as our ongoing research and development activities, are subject to regulation by numerous federal, state and local governmental authorities in the United States. We have received federal accreditation from the Department of Health and Human Services under CLIA to operate our clinical laboratory. CLIA is a federal law that regulates clinical laboratories that perform testing on specimens derived from humans for the purpose of providing information for diagnostic, preventative or treatment purposes. Laboratories are subject to survey and inspection every two years in order to maintain their CLIA certifications. Moreover, CLIA inspectors may make random inspections of these laboratories. If we were to lose our CLIA certification, whether as a result of a revocation, suspension or limitation, we would no longer be able to continue our molecular diagnostic testing operations which would have a material adverse effect on our business. We have also been accredited under the Clinical Laboratory Evaluation Program by the Department of Health of the State of New York. Where necessary or material to our operations, we hold state licenses to operate a clinical laboratory. Failure to maintain state regulatory compliance, or changes in state regulatory schemes, could result in a substantial curtailment or even prohibition of our molecular diagnostic testing operations and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, while the FDA has elected not to substantially regulate the activities or tests performed by laboratories like our clinical laboratory, the FDA has stated that it has the right to do so, and the FDA may seek to regulate or require clearance or approval of our molecular diagnostic or personalized medicine products in the future. In September 2006, the FDA issued draft guidance on a new class of tests called In Vitro Diagnostic Multivariate Index Assays, or IVDMIAs. Under this draft guidance, some laboratory-developed tests may be determined to be IVDMIAs and could be classified as Class II or Class III medical devices, which may require 12 Table of Contents varying levels of FDA pre-market review depending upon intended use and on the level of control necessary to assure the safety and effectiveness of the test. In July 2007, the FDA posted revised draft guidance on IVDMIAs. In this draft guidance, the FDA provides examples of devices that the FDA does not consider to meet the definition of IVDMIAs and that are outside the scope of its guidance document. One such category is genotype determination, which is the type of analysis performed for most of our currently marketed products. The comment period for this revised guidance expired in October 2007, and it is not clear whether or when the FDA may finalize this draft guidance. We cannot provide any assurance, however, that FDA regulation, including pre-market review, will not be required in the future for our molecular diagnostic products. If pre-market review is required, our business could be negatively impacted if we are required to stop selling molecular diagnostic products pending their clearance or approval. Risks Related to Commercialization of Our Products and Product Candidates We may not be able to maintain or increase revenue growth and profitability for our molecular diagnostic products. We launched our first molecular diagnostic product, BRACAnalysis, our product for hereditary breast and ovarian cancer in November 1996. Sales of BRACAnalysis account for most of our molecular diagnostic revenues. An interruption or cessation of BRACAnalysis sample flow would have a material impact on our revenues and future profitability. We have experienced revenue growth in our molecular diagnostic business over past years; however, we may not be able to continue this revenue growth or maintain existing revenue levels. Presently, our molecular diagnostic business operates profitably providing a cash contribution to our current funding and operational needs. We may not, however, be able to continue to operate our molecular diagnostic business on a profitable basis. Potential events or factors that may have a significant impact on our ability to sustain revenue growth and profitability for our molecular diagnostic business include the following: • increased costs of reagents and other consumables required for molecular diagnostic testing; • increased licensing or royalty costs; • increased personnel and facility costs; • our inability to hire competent, trained staff, including laboratory directors required to review and approve all reports we issue in our molecular diagnostic business, and sales personnel; • our inability to obtain necessary equipment or reagents to perform molecular diagnostic testing; • our inability to increase production capacity as demand increases; • potential obsolescence of our products; • our inability to increase commercial acceptance of our molecular diagnostic products; and • increased regulatory requirements. If the government and third-party payors fail to provide coverage and adequate payment for our products and future products, if any, our revenue and prospects for profitability will be harmed. In both domestic and foreign markets, sales of our molecular diagnostic products or any future diagnostic products will depend in part, upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors. Such third-party payors include government healthcare programs such as Medicare, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. These third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by demanding price discounts or rebates and limiting both coverage on which diagnostic tests they will pay for and the amounts that they will pay for new molecular diagnostic products. The fact that a diagnostic product has been approved for reimbursement in the past, for any particular indication or in any particular jurisdiction, does not guarantee that such a diagnostic product will remain approved for reimbursement or that similar or additional diagnostic products will be approved in the future. As a result, third-party payors may not cover or provide 13 Table of Contents adequate payment for our current or future molecular diagnostic products. We might need to conduct post-marketing studies in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of any future products to such payors’ satisfaction. Such studies might require us to commit a significant amount of management time and financial and other resources. Our future products might not ultimately be considered cost-effective. Adequate third-party reimbursement might not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on investment in product development. U.S. and foreign governments continue to propose and pass legislation designed to reduce the cost of healthcare. For example, in some foreign markets, the government controls the pricing of many healthcare products. In the United States, the way that healthcare is provided is under consideration by Congress and has been the subject of vigorous debate. We expect that there will continue to be federal and state proposals to implement governmental controls or imposed healthcare requirements. In addition, the Medicare program and increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States will continue to put pressure on product pricing. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we would receive for any products in the future, which would limit our revenue and profitability. We rely on a single laboratory facility to process our molecular diagnostic tests. We rely on a single CLIA-approved laboratory facility in Salt Lake City, Utah to perform our molecular diagnostic tests. This facility and certain pieces of laboratory equipment would be difficult to replace and may require significant replacement lead-time. This facility may be affected by natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods and fires. In the event our clinical testing facility or equipment is affected by man-made or natural disasters, we would be unable to continue our molecular diagnostic business and meet customer demands for a significant period of time. Although we maintain insurance on this facility, including business interruption insurance, it may not be adequate to protect us from all potential losses if this facility were damaged or destroyed. In addition, any interruption in our molecular diagnostic business would result in a loss of goodwill, including damage to our reputation. If our molecular diagnostic business were interrupted, it would seriously harm our business. Our current molecular diagnostic product candidates in development may never achieve significant commercial market acceptance. We may not succeed in achieving significant commercial market acceptance of our product and service candidates. While we have marketed several of our molecular diagnostic products for several years and have gained some market acceptance we need to convince physicians and consumers of the benefits of our current molecular diagnostic products in order to increase our sales of those products. Our ability to successfully commercialize our current molecular diagnostic products, as well as any future molecular diagnostic products that we may develop, will depend on several factors, including: • our ability to convince the medical community of the safety and clinical efficacy of our products and their potential advantages over existing products; • our ability to sell our molecular diagnostic products to patients who have not previously used our products; • the agreement by third-party payors to reimburse our products, the scope and extent of which will affect patients willingness or ability to pay for our products and will likely heavily influence physicians’ decisions to recommend our products; and • the willingness of physicians and patients to utilize our products, which can be difficult to interpret. This difficulty is caused by a combination of factors, including the large number, sometimes thousands, of different mutations in the genes which our tests analyze, the need to characterize each specific mutation, and the ability of our products to predict only as to a statistical probability, not certainty, that a tested individual will develop the disease that the test is intended to predict. 14 Table of Contents These factors present obstacles to commercial acceptance of our products, which we will have to spend substantial time and money to overcome, if we can do so at all. Our inability to successfully do so will harm our business. If we do not compete effectively with scientific and commercial competitors, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our products. The biotechnology and genetics testing fields are intense and highly competitive. Tests that are developed are characterized by rapid technological change. Our competitors in the United States and abroad are numerous and include, among others, major diagnostic companies, reference laboratories, molecular diagnostic firms, universities and other research institutions. Many of our potential competitors have considerably greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do, which may allow these competitors to discover important genes and determine their function before we do. We could be adversely affected if we do not discover genes, proteins or biomarkers and characterize their function, develop molecular diagnostic products based on these discoveries, obtain required regulatory and other approvals and launch these products and their related services before our competitors. We also expect to encounter significant competition with respect to any molecular diagnostic products that we may develop or commercialize. Those companies that bring to market new molecular diagnostic products before we do may achieve a significant competitive advantage in marketing and commercializing their products. We may not be able to develop molecular diagnostic products successfully and we or our licensors may not obtain patents covering these products that provide protection against our competitors. Moreover, our competitors may succeed in developing molecular diagnostic products that circumvent our technologies or products. Furthermore, our competitors may succeed in developing technologies or products that are more effective than those developed by us or that would render our technologies or products less competitive or obsolete. We expect competition to intensify in the fields in which we are involved as technical advances in these fields occur and become more widely known. If our current research collaborators or scientific advisors terminate their relationships with us or develop relationships with a competitor, our ability to discover genes, proteins, and biomarkers, and to commercialize molecular diagnostic products could be adversely affected. We have relationships with research collaborators at academic and other institutions who conduct research at our request. These research collaborators are not our employees. As a result, we have limited control over their activities and, except as otherwise required by our collaboration agreements, can expect only limited amounts of their time to be dedicated to our activities. Our ability to discover genes, proteins, and biomarkers involved in human disease and commercialize molecular diagnostic products will depend in part on the continuation of these collaborations. If any of these collaborations are terminated, we may not be able to enter into other acceptable collaborations. In addition, our existing collaborations may not be successful. Our research collaborators and scientific advisors may have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which could compete with us. Our research collaborators and scientific advisors sign agreements which provide for the confidentiality of our proprietary information and the results of studies conducted at our request. We may not, however, be able to maintain the confidentiality of our technology and other confidential information related to all collaborations. The dissemination of our confidential information could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we fail to retain our key personnel and hire, train and retain qualified employees and consultants, we may not be able to successfully continue our business. Because of the specialized scientific nature of our business, we are highly dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, scientific and technical personnel. We are currently recruiting additional qualified management, scientific and technical personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense. Loss of the services of or failure to recruit additional key management, scientific and technical personnel would adversely affect our research and development programs and molecular diagnostic business and may have a material adverse effect on our business as a whole. 15 Table of Contents Our agreements with our employees generally provide for employment that can be terminated by either party without cause at any time, subject to specified notice requirements. Further, the non-competition provision to which each employee is subject expires for certain key employees on the applicable date of termination of employment. As we expand our commercial products we may be required to incur significant costs and devote significant efforts to expand our existing products sales and marketing capabilities. We have limited sales and marketing experience and capabilities. These capabilities consist primarily of our sales force that markets our cancer-related molecular diagnostic products to oncologists and Ob/Gyns in the United States. If in the future we elect to expand our sales and marketing functions for our products, we would face a number of additional costs and risks, including the need to recruit a large number of additional experienced marketing and sales personnel. We depend on a limited number of third parties for some of our supplies of equipment and reagents. If these supplies become unavailable, then we may not be able to successfully perform our research or operate our business at all or on a timely basis. We currently rely on a small number of suppliers to provide our gene sequencing machines, robots, and specialty reagents required in connection with our research. We believe that currently there are limited alternative suppliers of gene sequencing machines, robots, and reagents. The gene sequencing machines, robots, or the reagents may not remain available in commercial quantities at acceptable costs. If we are unable to obtain when needed additional gene sequencing machines, robots, or an adequate supply of reagents or other ingredients at commercially reasonable rates, our ability to continue to identify genes and perform molecular diagnostic testing would be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we fail to comply with our obligations under license or technology agreements with third parties, we could lose license rights that are critical to our business. We license intellectual property that is critical to our business, including licenses underlying the technology in our BRACAnalysis and other molecular diagnostic products, and in the future we may enter into additional agreements that provide us with licenses to valuable intellectual property or technology. These licenses impose various royalty payments, milestones, and other obligations on us. If we fail to comply with any of these obligations, the licensor may have the right to terminate the license. Termination by the licensor would cause us to lose valuable rights, the ability to distribute our current products, or inhibit our ability to commercialize future product candidates. Our business would suffer if any current or future licenses terminate, if the licensors fail to abide by the terms of the license, if the licensors fail to prevent infringement by third parties, if the licensed patents or other rights are found to be invalid or unenforceable, or if we are unable to enter into necessary licenses on acceptable terms. If we are not able to protect our proprietary technology, others could compete against us more directly, which would harm our business. As of June 30, 2009, our patent portfolio included 213 issued patents owned or licensed by us and numerous patent applications in the United States and other countries with claims covering our intellectual property rights. Our commercial success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain additional patents and licenses and protect our existing patent position, both in the United States and in other countries, for predisposing genes we identify and related technologies, processes, methods and other inventions that we believe are patentable. Our ability to preserve our trade secrets and other intellectual property is also critical to our long-term success. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may be able to use our technologies and erode or negate any competitive advantage we may have, which could harm our business and ability to maintain profitability. Patents may also issue to third parties which could interfere with our ability to bring our molecular diagnostic 16 Table of Contents products to market. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as U.S. laws, and we may encounter significant problems in protecting our proprietary rights in these countries. The patent positions of diagnostic companies, including our patent position, are generally highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions, and, therefore, any patents issued to us may be challenged, deemed unenforceable, invalidated or circumvented. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies and any future products are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. To date there has not emerged from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or PTO, the U.S. courts, or from patent offices or courts in foreign countries, a consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in genetic patents. Our patent applications may never issue as patents, and the claims of any issued patents may not afford meaningful protection for our technology or products. In addition, any patents issued to us or our licensors may be challenged, and subsequently narrowed, invalidated or circumvented. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain, and we cannot ensure that: • we or our licensors were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our patent applications; • we or our licensors were the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • any of our or our licensors’ patent applications will result in issued patents; • any of our or our licensors’ patents will be valid or enforceable; • any patents issued to us or our licensors and collaborators will provide a basis for commercially viable products, will provide us with any competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties; • we will develop additional proprietary technologies or products that are patentable; or • the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our business. If a third party files a patent application with claims to a gene, protein, or biomarker we have discovered, the PTO may declare an interference between competing patent applications. If an interference is declared, we may not prevail in the interference. If the other party prevails in the interference, we may be precluded from commercializing services or products based on the gene, protein, or biomarker or may be required to seek a license. A license may not be available to us on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. We also rely upon unpatented proprietary technologies. Although we require employees, consultants and collaborators to sign confidentiality agreements, we may not be able to adequately protect our rights in such unpatented proprietary technologies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or techniques or otherwise gain access to our proprietary technologies or disclose our technologies to our competitors. If we were sued for patent infringement by third parties, we might incur significant costs and delays in product introduction. Our products may also conflict with patents that have been or may be granted to others. Our industry includes many organizations seeking to rapidly identify genes and proteins through the use of genomic, proteomic and other technologies. To the extent any patents are issued to those organizations on genes or proteins or uses for such genes and proteins, the risk increases that the sale of our molecular diagnostic products currently being marketed or under development, may give rise to claims of patent infringement. Others may have filed and in the future are likely to file patent applications covering genes or proteins that are similar or identical to our products. Any of these patent applications may have priority over our patent applications and these entities or persons could bring legal proceedings against us seeking damages or seeking to enjoin us from testing or marketing our products. 17 Table of Contents Patent litigation is costly, and even if we prevail, the cost of such litigation could have a material adverse effect on us. If the other parties in any such actions are successful, in addition to any liability for damages, we could be required to cease the infringing activity or obtain a license. Any license required may not be available to us on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. Our failure to obtain a license to any technology that we may require to commercialize our products could have a material adverse effect on our business. We believe that there may be significant litigation in the industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. If we become involved in this litigation, it could consume a substantial portion of our managerial and financial resources. In general, we are responsible for enforcing and defending our patents. We may be unable to adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets, proprietary databases, and other proprietary information. We rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary technologies and databases, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and others to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy if unauthorized disclosure of confidential information occurs. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive position. We may be subject to claims that we or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. As is commonplace in our industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price is highly volatile, and our stock may lose all or a significant part of its value. The market prices for securities of molecular diagnostic and other life science companies have been volatile. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices for these securities for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The market price for our common stock has fluctuated significantly since public trading commenced in October 1995, and it is likely that the market price will continue to fluctuate in the future. In the two years ended June 30, 2009, our stock price has ranged from $17.18 per share to $47.08 per share, adjusted for the 2-for-1 stock split effected by a stock dividend paid on March 25, 2009 to stockholders of record on March 9, 2009. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Events or factors that may have a significant impact on our business and on the market price of our common stock include the following: • termination of the licenses underlying our molecular diagnostic products; • delays or other problems with operating our laboratory facilities; • failure of any of our research and development programs; • regulatory developments or enforcement in the United States and foreign countries; • developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights involving us directly or otherwise affecting the industry as a whole; 18 Table of Contents • introduction of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors; • changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts relating to our common stock or the securities of our competitors; • failure to meet estimates or recommendations by securities analysts that cover our common stock; • public concern over our approved products and any product candidates; • litigation; • future sales or anticipated sales of our common stock by us or our stockholders; • general market conditions; • changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems; • failure to sustain revenue growth or margins in our molecular diagnostic business; • failure of any of our product candidates to achieve commercial success; • seasonal slowness in sales, particularly in the quarters ending September 30 and March 31, the effects of which may be difficult to understand during periods of growth; • economic, healthcare and diagnostic trends, disasters or crises and other external factors; and • period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results. These and other external factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. In addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit regardless of the outcome. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management. Anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law, provisions in our charter and bylaws and our stockholders’ rights plan, or poison pill, could make a third-party acquisition of us difficult. Because we are a Delaware corporation, the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change in control would be beneficial to stockholders. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, which prohibits us from engaging in certain business combinations, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. In addition, our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws also contain certain provisions that may make a third-party acquisition of us difficult, including: • a classified board of directors, with three classes of directors each serving a staggered three-year term; • the ability of the board of directors to issue preferred stock; • a 70% super-majority shareholder vote to amend our bylaws and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation; and • the inability of our stockholders to call a special meeting or act by written consent. We also have implemented a stockholders’ rights plan, also called a poison pill, which could make it uneconomical for a third party to acquire our company on a hostile basis. These provisions, as well as Section 203, may discourage certain types of transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market price, and may limit the ability of our stockholders to approve transactions that they think may be in their best interests. 19 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 