Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules Signatures Index to Consolidated Financial Statements PART I ITEM 1. Business. General Thomas Group, Inc. (the "Company"), a Delaware corporation, established in 1978, is an international, professional services firm focusing on improving operations, competitiveness and financial performance of clients through process improvement and strategically aligning operations with technology. Recognized as a leading specialist in operations consulting, the Company creates and implements custom improvement strategies for sustained performance improvement. The Company's clients are typically large companies, many of whom are included in the Fortune or Global 1000, and units of governmental agencies. The Company's products are based on three fundamental principles: a metrics-driven process, attaining and sustaining significant results for clients, and program implementation by consultants with senior management experience in industry. Since 1978, the Company has been developing and improving its Process Value Management ("PVM") methodology for achieving operational excellence. PVM is based on the Company's Total Cycle Time® ("TCT") methods and supplements TCT with numerous process improvement tools the Company has developed over the last 27 years. PVM continues to contribute to the measurable operational improvement of hundreds of companies. During the Company's first ten years, it originated many of the fast-process methods that transform the processes, procedures and people within clients' organizations to create smooth, efficient and seamless operations. These methods quickly became standard operations for the electronics and semiconductor industries. Soon afterwards, they were being applied to general manufacturing, heavy industry and product inventory. In the late 1980s, in response to numerous client requests, the Company applied the fast-process tools and methods to non-manufacturing processes such as product development, sales, marketing and the strategic alignment of resources. The application of fast-process tools across the entire enterprise led to major process and productivity gains in "white collar" areas that had been ignored for years in the manufacturing plant, again delivering substantial gains for its clients. Today, the Company is involved with new tools, both proprietary and non-proprietary, to drive higher results. The Company is working to help link all of a client's strategic processes, not only across its internal functions, but also across entities and geographies. Statement of Business The Company's business is helping its clients improve their bottom-line results using the Company's senior executives who work side-by-side with clients to remove barriers, increase productivity, change culture, and focus on quickly satisfying customer needs. This has been the primary focus of the Company since its beginning in 1978. Process Value Management The Company's PVM approach is based on its 27 years of experience with process improvement tools and methodologies that drive financial bottom-line results. The Company uses PVM to help an enterprise determine strategic business processes, assess their linkages and efficiencies, and prescribe short and long-term enhancement programs that optimize customer satisfaction and shareholder value. The Company's staff of business professionals who apply PVM methodology are referred to by the Company as "Resultants." An initial client assignment might typically address one or more of these key processes that are hindering performance. A long-term relationship might involve an implementation team of Resultants working with the client over a number of years to achieve a total transformation to the "Process Managed Enterprise." 1 Experience has taught us that: •The Process Managed Enterprise is one in which its management focus and systems are centered on customers and managed around processes; •All businesses are made up of a series of linked processes, from the initial business concept through all its applied resources to its end customer. All processes, left unmanaged, naturally deteriorate over time; •People, working in cross-functional teams, focusing on customer needs, are what make processes effective; •The customer is the final arbiter of the value of the process; and, •The transformation process itself must deliver short-term operating results as well as long-term systemic business enhancements. Total Cycle Time The Company's initial offering, TCT, centers on reducing cycle times and increasing first pass yield (quality), thereby improving overall productivity. Using the Company's methods, business process cycle times—the time from the beginning to the end of any business activity—can normally be reduced by up to 50%, whether the process is engineering, manufacturing, or sales. For example, in a manufacturing setting, it might take 30 days from the time an order is received until the order is shipped. The Company first determines the baseline time of that process—the time currently expended doing the work. Based on the Company's best practices, a multiplier is used to move from baseline to "entitlement"—how fast the process should run with current resources. The Company's Resultants then work with client management to reduce the current rate to the entitlement by mapping the process, eliminating unnecessary steps, and removing process and cultural barriers. The key to TCT's success is the Resultants' ability to identify the right metrics to drive the business and the critical processes of the business. Many companies only look at results measures, such as return on net assets. The problem with results measures is that by the time their value is known, it is too late in the process to employ corrective measures. However, when predictive driver measures such as cycle time and first pass yield are used, clients can determine the trajectory of their business and make adjustments as needed. The Company uses a "cockpit chart" approach to capture the key measurements for a business and to ensure that the focus is on the appropriate processes that will drive results. Cockpit charts contain a balanced combination of results and driver measurements. In addition, these top-level measurements are hierarchical and represent the roll-up of the key processes. TCT remains a core of the Company's PVM methodology. Supply Chain Process Value Supply chain management ("SCM") has matured over the last decade. A milestone in the maturity of SCM, driven by the need for value control in today's competitive global environment, is the leading-edge concept that the demand side management within a supply chain has as much impact on value and cash management as does supply side management. This is an excellent example of recognizing the interconnectivity of processes and supports the need to shift from a functional to a process view of SCM. Thomas Group's own Supply Chain Process Value ("SCPV") offering within its overarching PVM approach balances demand side management and supply side management while optimizing responsiveness, quality and value. 2 The Company has helped hundreds of clients make a successful transition from functional organizations to efficient SCPV cross-functional teams. Using this PVM architecture, the Company analyzes the client's operations and supply chain network, then applies tools such as TCT to drive down inventory levels, reduce delivery time and improve order accuracy. Ideally, this process links back into the client's suppliers and customers and drives additional benefits. Summary Over the years, the Company has become a leader in implementing process improvement strategies that make clients faster and improve their competitiveness and financial performance. This ability to link and align a client organization's strategy, technology, people and processes offers a powerful and unique benefit to clients faced with integrating their operations, internally and externally, throughout the value chain. The Company's strategic plan is to continually add value to its core PVM product offering and to expand its marketing reach through alliances with other knowledge leaders. Competitive Strategy The Company's strategy is to maintain and enhance its position in the development and implementation of its PVM methodology. The Company's strategy includes the following key elements, many of which differentiate it from traditional providers of consulting services. Emphasize Results. The Company may enter into incentive fee contracts, which make a portion of its revenue from a particular program contingent upon certain measurable results. The Company offers incentive fee contracts in cases where the client prefers that the Company share the risks to achieve entitled results or for clients who prefer to work on a gain-sharing basis. The Company's competitors generally charge fees based on time expended, regardless of results. Thus, the Company's willingness to enter into incentive fee contracts demonstrates the Company's confidence that its programs will positively enhance the businesses of its clients and furthermore provides significant competitive differentiation and advantage. Target Large Clients and Multiple Program Opportunities. The Company has focused its marketing efforts on entities with annual revenues greater than $400 million, preferably where sequential program opportunities exist. The Company believes larger clients provide greater revenue opportunities because such clients are likely to realize greater economic benefit from the Company's services and will be more likely to engage the Company in follow-on programs. Focus on Results Implementation and Continuous Improvement. By applying PVM throughout the client's complete business or business unit and by working in close cooperation with the client's management, the Company believes it can more effectively drive operational performance improvements and their associated financial benefits. The Company stresses hands-on implementation of process improvements and focuses on implementation of prioritized changes that improve the client's business culture and processes. In addition to implementing change through its PVM plan, an essential element of a PVM program is "leaving behind" with the client the knowledge and skills needed for the client to continue to sustain continuous improvement. In contrast, traditional consulting firms often provide subject expertise in the form of written assessments or reports that focus on discrete functions or an isolated segment of a business. Experienced Professional Staff. The Company employs professionals with extensive business management experience, often 20 years or more. Traditional consulting firms often hire recent business school graduates with expertise in a particular subject matter, rather than expertise in business management. The use of seasoned professionals significantly improves the ability of the Company to effectively implement its PVM methodologies and creates a significant competitive difference and advantage for the Company. 3 Clients The Company's clients are typically large, diversified enterprises or distinct units of such enterprises in North America, Europe, and Asia. Many of the Company's clients are Fortune or Global 1000 companies, or governmental agencies. The Company has worked for over 350 clients, including the following: Aerospace Distribution Mechanical Engineering Aerostructures ProSource ABB Bombardier W.W. Grainger Alstom Power Delta Air Lines Dresser Waukesha Gulfstream Electronics Dresser-Rand ITT Cannon ABB GEA LSG Sky Chefs Berg Hilti Lufthansa Cargo EDS Schindler Lufthansa Technik Euclid-Hitachi McDonnell Douglass Flat Panel Display Medical Equipment Supplies TRW GTE Control Devices Boston Scientific Vought Aircraft Gemplus Siemens Medical Johnson Electric GE Medical Automotive Motorola Adam Opel Osram Audi Philips Specialty Retail Delco Texas Instruments Tuesday Morning Delphi Western Digital Detroit Diesel Yuasa Exide Batteries Semiconductor GM Alcatel Mietec GM DELCO Healthcare AMI Microsystems GM/Warranty Centura ASM Lithography Meritor Mallinckrodt AT&T Semiconductor Osram Cypress Semiconductor Pep Boys Government Fairchild Semiconductor Robert Bosch FAA Ford Microelectronics Saab CACI Hewlett Packard Siemens City of Garland, Texas Hyundai United States Army IBM Apparel Manufacturer United States Navy LG Semiconductor Brandix NCR Esquel Group Manufacturing/Industrial National Semiconductor Lanka Equities Breguet Matra MHS Tristate Holdings Dover Motorola Emerson Philips Semiconductor Banking, Financial Services, Kimberly Clark Rockwell Insurance VIAD Signetics DG Bank Leeds & Northrup ST Microelectronics Forethought Insurance Moore Taiwan Semiconductor Olivetti Pawnee Industries Trilogy Sun Life Financial Pinnacle-lvey Radium Telecommunications Chemical Robert Bosch Allen Telecom Heraeus Siemens Shipley Stewart and Stevenson Transportation Teledyne Alstom Consumer Products Thrall Amtrak Fossil Xerox Bombardier Givaudan Burlington Northern Santa Fe HengAn Hillenbrand Utilities Kodak PECO Polaroid Siemens Rand McNally Southern Indiana Gas & Electric Robert Bosch Rubbermaid 4 There can be no assurance that the Company will perform services for any of its previous clients in the future. In order to maintain and increase its revenues, the Company will need to add new clients or expand existing client relationships to include additional divisions or business units of such clients. The Company operates in one industry segment, but conducts its business primarily in three geographic areas: North America, Europe and Asia/Pacific. Information regarding these areas follows: North America Europe Asia/Pacific Total In thousands Year ended December 31, 2005: Revenue $ 43,033 — $ 29 $ 43,062 Income from continuing operations before income taxes $ 8,527 — $ (224 ) $ 8,303 Long-lived assets $ 580 — — $ 580 Year ended December 31, 2004: Revenue $ 28,930 — $ 1,090 $ 30,020 Income from continuing operations before income taxes $ (11,425 ) — $ 13,793 $ 2,368 Long-lived assets $ 804 — $ 7 $ 811 Year ended December 31, 2003: Revenue $ 27,110 — $ 3,165 $ 30,275 Income from continuing operations before income taxes $ 4,559 $ (453 ) $ (1,604 ) $ 2,502 Long-lived assets $ 1,208 — $ 14 $ 1,222 In 2005, revenues from one client, CACI, INC.—FEDERAL ("CACI", formerly known as CACI AB, Inc. and previously Action Burnell, Inc.), a wholly-owned subsidiary of CACI International Inc. (www.caci.com), totaled $27.9 million or 65% of consolidated revenues. Revenues from another client, the United States Navy (the "Navy"), totaled $13.0 million or 30% of consolidated revenues. In 2004, revenues from one client, CACI, totaled $14.5 million or 48% of consolidated revenues. Revenues from another client, the Navy, totaled $9.8 million or 33% of consolidated revenues. In 2003, revenues from one client, CACI, totaled $11.8 million or 39% of revenues. Revenues from another client, the Navy, totaled $9.7 million or 32% of consolidated revenues. Contractual Arrangements The Company performs PVM services for clients pursuant to contracts, generally with terms of three months to one year, or targeted process improvement programs typically lasting from three to six months. Clients compensate the Company for its services in one or more of three forms: fixed fees, task-based or specific deliverable-based fees, or incentive fees based on client improvements achieved. The Company's fee structure depends on a client's size, the complexity and geographic deployment of a client's business, the level of improvement opportunity available to a client, the number of barriers to be removed, and other factors. Fixed fee revenue is recognized on a percentage of completion basis using direct labor efforts as the measurement. Time and effort to date on a project are compared to the total estimated time and effort for the entire project; deriving the percentage completion ratio. This ratio is multiplied by the total fixed fee to be earned on the project, resulting in the amount of revenue earned to date on the project. Task-based fee revenue (also known as specific deliverable-based) is recognized as revenue when the task/deliverable has been completed. Typically, this involves a report, chart, minutes or some other form of proof of completion. This work product is delivered to the client, and the client acknowledges receipt prior to recognition of revenue by the Company. 5 Incentive (performance-oriented) fee revenue is calculated by our clients and Resultants, using the client's own data and are based on agreed-upon formulas relating to improvements in customer-specific measures. Incentive fee revenue is recognized by the Company in the period in which the related improvements are achieved. In order to mitigate the risk of disputes arising over the achievement of performance improvements, which drive incentive fees, the Company obtains customer agreement to these achievements prior to recognizing incentive-based revenue. Factors such as a client's commitment to PVM, general business and economic cycles and a client's product position in the marketplace will affect the performance of the Company's clients, thus affecting the Company's revenue from incentive fee compensation. In 2005, 2004, and 2003, approximately 0%, 1% and 1%, respectively, of the Company's revenue was attributable to incentive fees. The Company includes in its business under commitment (backlog) signed client contracts and budgeted United States government commitments with terms generally ranging from three months to one year. Budgeted United States government commitments consist of funds that are designated for the Company in the Department of Defense's operating budget as a line item, as opposed to inclusion in a general category. Typically, government agencies agree to sign one-year contracts even though the program may be a budgeted expenditure for several years. The Company considers the budgeted United States government commitments to be equivalent to a signed commercial contract. Therefore, these commitments are included in backlog. Backlog at December 31, 2005, was $14.5 million, and is expected to be realized within fiscal 2006. Backlog was $22.5 million at December 31, 2004. Competition Traditional consulting firms provide services similar in some respects to the services provided by the Company. Providers of such services include A.T. Kearney, Inc., Boston Consulting Group, McKinsey & Co., as well as several small firms that primarily focus on time-based management services. Many of the Company's competitors have a larger number of personnel, greater financial, technical and marketing resources than the Company. There can be no assurance the Company will be able to compete successfully with its existing or new competitors. The Company believes the competitive factors most important to its business are the unique quality of its PVM methodology, the quality and character of its professional staff, its willingness to be compensated on an incentive basis, its reputation for achieving targeted results and its dedication to implementation of programs that deliver results. The Company believes that no significant competitors offer their clients the opportunity to base fees on the results achieved or emphasize hands-on implementation to the same extent as the Company. The Company believes its most significant competitor is the propensity for potential clients to "self-medicate" by attempting to implement changes in their businesses themselves, using the Company's methodologies, in the belief they will achieve results comparable to those resulting from the Company's services without the assistance of outside professionals. The Company believes these attempts to self-medicate result in limited success. However, such attempts may substantially lengthen the Company's sales cycle and may, therefore, limit its business opportunities. Because the PVM methodology or related shorter term products are not capable of being patented, there can be no assurance the Company will not be subject to competition from others using substantially similar methodologies. However, the Company believes its base of knowledge and experienced resultants provide it with a competitive advantage. Intellectual Property The Company has secured federal registration for the service marks Total Cycle Time® and TCT®. These registrations expire from August 2012 to May 2015. The Company has secured federal service mark registration for several other marks important to its business. The Company has also made 6 appropriate filings in several European countries securing protection of its marks in those countries. The Company considers each of these service marks to be significant to its business. The Company's proprietary methodologies have been developed over 27 years at great expense, have required considerable effort on the part of skilled professionals, are not generally known and are considered trade secrets. In some circumstances, the Company grants clients a limited license to make internal use of certain of the Company's proprietary methodologies following completion of a program. The Company maintains its trade secrets in strict confidence and as part of its standard engagement. The Company has entered into nondisclosure and noncompetition agreements with its current and former employees. There can be no assurance that such agreements will deter any employee of the Company from disclosing confidential information to third parties or from using such information to compete with the Company in the future. Employees At March 23, 2006, the Company had a total of 147 employees, consisting of 102 full-time Resultants, 12 part-time Resultants and 16 sales and 17 administrative employees. The Company's employees are not represented by a labor union and are not subject to any collective bargaining agreement. The Company considers its employee relations to be good. Securities and Exchange Commission The Company is required to file reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company routinely files certain reports to the SEC. These forms, among others, include: Form 10-K Annual Report Form 10-Q Quarterly Report Form 8-K Current Reports Schedule 14A Definitive Proxy Statement The public may read and copy any materials filed to the SEC by the Company at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The Company's filings to the SEC are submitted electronically and can be accessed via the SEC's website at (http://www.sec.gov). Company Website Information about the Company can be obtained by accessing the Company's website at (http://www.thomasgroup.com). The Company's website contains an investor information section which provides links to the Company's SEC reports and filings. Such reports and filings are available free of charge as soon as reasonably practical after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. Risk Factors The Company's revenue and operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, and fluctuations in operating results could cause its stock price to decline. The Company's revenue and operating results may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter due to a number of factors. In future quarters, operating results may be below the expectations of public 7 market analysis or investors, and the price of its common stock may decline. Factors that could cause quarterly fluctuations include: •the beginning and ending of significant contracts during a quarter; •the number, size and scope of the engagements; •incentive fee contracts can create variations in revenue levels and may cause fluctuations in quarterly results; •the ability to recruit and retain qualified personnel; •the extent to which Resultants can be reassigned efficiently from one engagement to another; •fluctuations in demand for services resulting from budget cuts, project delays, cyclical downturns or similar events, including the recent economic downturn; •the possibility and subsequent duration of conflicts involving the United States military could cause delays in program operations related to the Company's government clients; •clients' decisions to divert resources to other projects, which may limit clients' resources that would otherwise be allocated to services that the Company could provide; and, •reductions in the prices of services offered by competitors. The market in which the Company operates is competitive and actions by competitors could render its services less competitive, causing revenue and income to decline. The ability to compete depends on a number of factors outside of the Company's control, including: •the prices at which others offer competitive services, including aggressive price competition and discounting on individual engagements; •the ability of competitors to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns; •the extent, if any, to which competitors develop proprietary tools that improve their ability to compete; •the ability of the Company's customers to perform the services themselves; and, •the extent of competitors' responsiveness to customer needs. The Company may not be able to compete effectively on these or other factors. If the Company is unable to compete effectively, market position, and therefore revenue and profitability, could decline. The Company must continually enhance its services to meet the changing needs of its customers or face the possibility of losing future business to competitors. Future success will depend upon the Company's ability to enhance existing services and to introduce new services to meet the requirements of customers in a rapidly developing and evolving market. Present or future services may not satisfy the needs of the market. If the Company is unable to anticipate or respond adequately to its customers' needs, lost business may result and financial performance could suffer. 8 International business exposes the Company to various foreign statutory requirements, which could interfere with business or operations and could result in increased expenses and declining profitability. International operations create special risks, including: •statutory requirements, which may impair the Company's ability to expatriate foreign profits; •greater difficulties in managing and staffing foreign operations; •cultural differences that adversely affect utilization; •unexpected changes in trading policies, legal and regulatory requirements, tariffs and other foreign taxes; •greater difficulties in enforcing agreements with clients and collecting accounts receivable; •the tax system of foreign countries, which may tax the Company's foreign income at higher rates than in the United States, and may subject foreign earnings to withholding requirements or tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; •legal requirements and regulations of various foreign countries, which may make compliance by the Company with such laws and regulations difficult and may make enforcement of the Company's intellectual property rights more difficult; and, •fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may affect demand for the Company's services and may adversely affect the profitability in United States dollars of services provided by the Company in foreign markets where payment for its services is made in the local currency; and general economic conditions in the foreign countries in which the Company operates, which could have an adverse impact on its earnings from operations in those countries. The Company is dependent on a limited number of key personnel, and the loss of these individuals could harm its competitive position and financial performance. The Company's business consists primarily of the delivery of professional services and, accordingly, its success depends upon the efforts, abilities, business generation capabilities and project execution of its executive officers and Resultants. The Company's success is also dependent upon the managerial, operational and administrative skills of its executive officers. The loss of any executive officer, or key Resultant or group of Resultants, or the failure of these individuals to generate business or otherwise perform at or above historical levels could result in a loss of customers or revenue, and could therefore harm the Company's financial performance. If the Company fails to perform effectively on project engagements, its reputation, and therefore its competitive position and financial performance, could be harmed. Many of the Company's engagements come from former and existing clients or from referrals by existing clients. Therefore, growth is dependent on the Company's reputation and on client satisfaction. The failure to perform services that meet a client's expectations may damage the Company's reputation and harm its ability to attract new business. Damage to the Company's reputation arising from client dissatisfaction could therefore harm financial performance. Inability to protect intellectual property could harm the Company's competitive position and financial performance. Despite efforts to protect proprietary rights from unauthorized use or disclosure, parties, including former employees or consultants, may attempt to disclose, obtain or use the Company's solutions or technologies. The steps the Company has taken may not prevent misappropriation of solutions or technologies, particularly in foreign countries where laws or law enforcement practices may not protect 9 proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Unauthorized disclosure of proprietary information could make the Company's solutions and methodologies available to others and harm its competitive position. The terms of the Company's debt contain a number of restrictive covenants, which could restrict the Company's future flexibility and which, if breached, could result in acceleration of amounts owed, if any. The credit facility contains covenants that limit the Company's flexibility. These covenants could materially and adversely affect the ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities that may be in the best interest of the Company. The covenants limit the ability to, among other things: •encumber assets; •raise new debt; •merge, consolidate or dispose of a substantial part of assets; •engage in acquisitions, make loans, extend guarantees or enter into other investments; and, •incur indebtedness. The credit facility also contains covenants concerning the maintenance of minimum levels of debt service coverage, minimum levels of EBITDA, adhere to minimum ratios of funded debt to EBITDA, and restrictions on annual capital expenditures. The Company's ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond the Company's control, and it cannot be sure that it will be able to comply. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the credit facility and, potentially, an acceleration of the obligation to repay amounts owed, if any. "Safe Harbor" Statement Under The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act: Certain information contained in this report constitutes "forward-looking statements." Forward-looking statements are those that use the words such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "may," "will," "likely," "should," "estimate," "continue," "future" or the negative thereof, other variations thereon or other comparable expressions. These words indicate future events and trends. Forward-looking statements are the Company's current views with respect to future events and financial performance. These forward-looking statements are subject to many assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ significantly from historical results or from those anticipated by the Company. It is advisable not to place undue reliance on the Company's forward-looking statements. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. The most significant risks are detailed from time to time in the Company's filings and reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission including this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the following: •The competitive nature of the management consulting industry, in light of new entrants into the industry and the difficulty of differentiating the services offered to potential clients; •The time required by prospective clients to fully understand the value and complexity of a typical PVM program may result in an extended lead time to close new business; •Performance-oriented fees are earned upon the achievement of improvements in a client's business. The client's commitment to a PVM program and general economic/industry conditions could impact a client's business performance and consequently the Company's ability to forecast the timing and ultimate realization of performance-oriented fees; •The ability of the Company to productively re-deploy personnel during program transition periods; and, 10 •The ability of the Company to create alliances and to make acquisitions that are accretive to earnings. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 