ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our common stock involves a very high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors when evaluating an investment in our common stock. The risks described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this report, including our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes. We are currently unprofitable, and if we fail to generate new client relationships that result in significant sources of revenue, our business will suffer materially. During March and April of 2008, two of our multi-year contracts with the U.S. Navy expired. These contracts accounted for approximately 85% of our revenue in 2007 and 44% of our revenue in 2008. Our revenue for 2010 and 2009 decreased significantly as compared to 2008 and 2007, due in large part to these contract expirations. In response to the loss of these contracts, we have implemented cost-containment initiatives, reorganized our management structures, enhanced our product and service offerings and implemented enhanced business development processes. To date, however, we have not been able to replace a significant portion of the revenue lost due to these contract expirations. As a result of the loss of these contracts, our inability to develop new client relationships in sufficient volume, and our inability to reduce Cost of Sales and Selling, General and Administrative Costs sufficiently to offset the decline in revenue, we were unprofitable in 2010. Although we continue to reduce or contain costs, if we are unable to develop significant new client relationships and generate increased revenue from new consulting engagements to allow us to return to profitability in 2011, our ability ultimately to recover will be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that we will ultimately be successful in increasing revenues and reducing or containing costs sufficiently to return to profitability. Our current cash resources might not be sufficient to meet our cash needs over time. We continue to believe that our cash balances, together with cash generated from operating activities, will be sufficient to provide funds that are adequate for our operating needs through March 31, 2012. However, if we are unable to generate positive cash flows sufficient to fund our needs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. During 2010 and 2009, we experienced net losses. Our ability to generate additional cash from operations is determined primarily by our ability to generate substantial new revenue. We have developed a business plan for 2011 including an internal forecast of cash needs. Based on this plan, we believe that existing cash resources and cash generated from current operations will be sufficient to satisfy our operating cash needs at least through March 31, 2012. If we are unable to achieve the revenue in our forecast, or if our costs are higher than we forecasted, then we may not have sufficient liquidity to allow us to recover in the future. If we cannot consistently generate the required cash flows from operating activities, we will need to meet the additional operating shortfalls with existing cash on hand, or implement or seek alternative strategies. There can be no assurance that existing cash will be sufficient, that we will have timely access to the capital or credit markets if needed, or that any of our other strategies can be implemented on satisfactory terms, on a timely basis, or at all to allow us sufficient time to return to profitability. 10 Table of Contents If we are unable to return to profitability during 2011, we may receive a "going concern" opinion from our independent auditors at the end of 2011. This could materially and adversely affect our potential to sign contracts with new clients, further limiting our opportunity to return to profitability. Management believes that, as of December 31, 2010, we met the requirements of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, for a "going concern," which contemplates the realization of assets and discharge of liabilities in the ordinary course of business. Management has prepared the financial statements included in this Form 10-K on that basis. Accordingly, the financial statements do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects that may result from the outcome of various uncertainties described in these risk factors and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. If we are unable to develop sufficient new business from existing and new clients to allow us to return to profitability, we may no longer meet this requirement as of the end of 2011. In that event, the report of our independent registered accounting firm with respect to our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011 may contain an explanatory paragraph with respect to our ability to continue as a going concern. Such a statement may make it more difficult for us to sign new contracts with clients and to obtain necessary capital or credit, and may have other effects that further adversely impact our ability to return to profitability. A prolonged weak economic recovery or further downturn could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Beginning in the third quarter of 2008, the U.S. economy has experienced a significant downturn. Our results of operations generally are affected by the level of business activity of our clients, which in turn is affected by the level of economic activity in the industries and markets they serve. Budgets for consulting services typically decrease during times of adverse economic conditions. Although we believe our consulting services are a cost effective way for companies to reduce costs and improve operational efficiency, in periods of economic uncertainty prospective clients may not be willing to commit to projects that are typically three to 12 months or longer in duration. A decline in the level of business activity of our clients has negatively affected our ability to secure new client engagements, increased the likelihood of existing client engagement contract cancellations, and reduced our utilization rates, all of which has had a material adverse impact on our ability to generate revenue and on our operating results. In addition, the current economic downturn has caused some clients to reduce or defer their expenditures for consulting services, making our recovery more difficult. We have implemented and will continue to implement cost-savings initiatives to closely manage our expenses; however, current and future savings initiatives will not permit us to return to profitability without significant revenues from new contracts or new clients. Although the downturn appears to have stabilized and a slow recovery may have begun, this has not yet resulted in substantial new business for us. The prolonged weak economy has impacted almost all government entities, which has made obtaining new business in this target market more challenging. The current credit market conditions are unpredictable and unfavorable for many companies, and they are impacting the economy in uncertain ways. This situation may negatively impact our ability to generate the additional revenues required for us to return to profitability. Beginning in the fall of 2008, credit markets in the U.S. and worldwide became unstable and unpredictable and credit became difficult to obtain for many companies and organizations. In response many companies and organizations reduced discretionary spending, including spending on consulting services. Although the credit markets have stabilized in recent months, credit is still difficult to obtain for many entities. 11 Table of Contents Unless credit becomes more readily available, the current uncertainty may make it more difficult for us to sign new consulting contracts with new or former clients and may negatively impact our ability to return to profitability. Although we believe we are currently in compliance with the listing requirements of the Nasdaq Capital Market, there is no assurance that we will continue to remain so. If we fail to remain in compliance, we will be exposed to possible delisting andthe liquidity of our stock may be further negatively impacted. We believe that we are currently in compliance with all of the listing requirements of the Nasdaq Capital Market. There is no assurance that we will continue to remain in compliance. There are several criteria for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market. If we fail to meet any of them in the future, we may receive notice of our failure to meet the requirements. If we are unable to regain compliance during the permitted time frame following receipt of any such notice, we may risk being delisted by Nasdaq. If we are delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, our common stock may be traded over-the-counter on the OTC Bulletin Board or on the "pink sheets." These alternative markets, however, are generally considered to be less efficient than the Nasdaq Capital Market. Many over-the-counter stocks trade less frequently and in smaller volumes than securities traded on the Nasdaq markets, which would likely have a material adverse effect on the liquidity of our common stock. If our common stock is delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, there may be a limited market for our stock, trading in our stock may become more difficult and our share price could decrease even further. In addition, the trading of our common stock on over-the-counter markets will materially adversely affect our access to the capital markets and our ability to raise capital through alternative financing sources on terms acceptable to us or at all. Securities that trade over-the-counter are no longer eligible for margin loans, and a company trading over-the-counter cannot avail itself of federal preemption of state securities or "blue sky" laws, which adds substantial compliance costs to securities issuances, including those pursuant to employee option plans, stock purchase plans and private or public offerings of securities. If our securities are delisted and transferred to either the OTC Bulletin Board or the pink sheets, there may also be other negative implications, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers, customers and employees. In addition, our common stock may become subject to penny stock rules. The SEC generally defines "penny stock" as an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. We are not currently subject to the penny stock rules because our common stock qualifies for an exception to the SEC's penny stock rules for companies that have an equity security that is quoted on the Nasdaq Stock Market. However, if we were delisted, our common stock would become subject to the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell our common stock. If our common stock were considered penny stock, the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and the ability of our stockholders to sell their shares in the secondary market would be limited and, as a result, the market liquidity for our common stock would be adversely affected. We cannot assure that trading in our securities will not be subject to these or other regulations in the future. We are a small company with a thinly traded stock, and two of our stockholders control more than 66% of our stock. Between early 2008 and mid-January 2010, we repurchased stock in the open market, which has further reduced the "public float" of shares available for trading on a daily basis. Our reverse stock split reduced the number of shares outstanding by 80%. Additionally, one of our two major stockholders died on December 31, 2010. Ultimately his stock may be sold by the administrator of his estate. As a result, a stockholder's liquidity may be seriously limited and our stock price may volatile. In January 2010, we completed a Rule 10b5-1 plan under which we repurchased shares of our common stock in market transactions between April 2008 and mid-January 2010. These repurchases 12 Table of Contents may have provided additional liquidity for our stockholders during that time period. Currently, we have no plans to resume stock repurchases under this plan or otherwise, so Company repurchases will no longer be a potential source of additional liquidity for our stockholders. Our largest two stockholders (one of whom is also a member of our Board of Directors) collectively own over 66% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. On December 31, 2010 the other of these two shareholders died after a brief illness. His shares are now owned by his estate. It is possible that the estate administrator may ultimately attempt to sell these shares. If the administrator attempts to sell these shares in the open market, it could result in increased volatility or a reduction in market price. The average daily trading volume for shares of our common stock is limited, often less than 6,000 shares per day. As a result, a stockholder may not be able to quickly or efficiently liquidate his/her position in our common stock, or may be subject to unpredictable swings in price as buyers or sellers are unable to find a ready market for transactions. Combined, these factors may result in limited stockholder liquidity and very volatile stock pricing. Our engagements may be terminated by our clients on short notice. The majority of our contracts can be terminated by our clients without cause, with short notice (typically 30 days) and without penalty. When contracts are terminated unexpectedly, the costs associated with the lost revenue may not be reduced in a timely manner. Following an unexpected termination, we may not be able to rapidly deploy our consultants to other projects, which would result in under-utilization of resources. In addition, because much of our work is project-based rather than recurring in nature, we may not be able to replace cancelled contracts and maintain our utilization rates with new business. Consequently, our revenue and results of operations in subsequent periods may suffer. We derive a portion of our revenue from contracts awarded through a competitive bidding process. If we are unable to win new awards consistently over any extended period, our business could be adversely affected. A portion of our contracts are awarded through a competitive bidding process. The competitive bidding process increases competition and pricing pressure, and we may be required to decrease our profit margins on our professional services and solutions in order to win a contract over our competitors. If we are unable to win new contract awards consistently over any extended period or if the proportion of our contracts obtained through a competitive bidding process increases further, our business will be adversely affected and cause our results of operations to differ materially from those anticipated. In addition, upon the expiration of a contract, if the client requires further services and solutions of the type provided by the contract, there may be a competitive re-bidding process. There can be no assurance that we will win any particular bid, or that we will be able to replace business lost upon expiration or completion of a contract. We derive our revenue from a limited number of engagements and our revenue could be adversely affected by the loss of a significant client or the cancellation of a significant engagement. Historically we have derived a significant portion of our revenue from a limited number of engagements. From year to year, revenue from one or more individual clients may exceed 10% of our revenue for such period. For the year ended December 31, 2010, four clients each represented more than 10% of our revenue. If contracts with major clients are not renewed upon termination or if any of our significant engagements is reduced in scope or cancelled, we would lose a significant amount of revenue. In general, the volume of work we perform for any particular client varies from year to year due to the specific engagement nature of our business. A client accounting for a significant portion of our revenue in one year may not comprise a significant portion of our revenue in the following year 13 Table of Contents due to completion of the project, early termination of the project or a reduction of the scope of our engagement in the following year. Thus, in order to maintain revenue or grow revenue, we generally have to sell new engagements to new clients. During 2010 we had difficulty doing so, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so more productively in 2011. Over half of our revenue is derived from government client engagements, and we are currently focusing our sales efforts on government engagements. This exposes us to various risks inherent in government contracts and the government contracting process. We perform work for various government entities and agencies. As a result, our business is susceptible to special risks inherent in government contracts and the government contracting process, including the following: •In normal years, government entities fund projects annually through congressionally appropriated monies pursuant to the government budgeting cycle beginning on October 1 of each year. While in some cases our government engagements may be planned and executed as multi-year projects, the initial contract term is typically one year or less, running through the next September 30 after the contract is signed, and may contain options to annually extend the term through the end of the project. Extensions are generally awarded each October 1 through the end of the project in conjunction with the government budgeting cycle. Our government clients reserve the right to change the scope of or terminate these projects with limited notice for lack of approved funding and at their convenience. Occasionally, congressional approval for appropriations extends beyond October 1. In such a case, we typically obtain short-term extensions to fund the project until congressional approval is obtained. •If the government budget is not approved by the beginning of a government budgeting cycle, work on existing projects may be halted or new engagements may be delayed until the budget is approved and signed. In such cases, funding for these engagements may be further delayed due to a backlog of contracts to be issued by the various government contracting offices, resulting in further delays in revenue for us. •In recent years, including the current fiscal year ending September 30, 2011, the government has been unable to pass a budget on a timely basis. Instead it has used a series of short-term "continuing resolutions" to fund the government. For the current year, the government is also attempting to agree on a course of action to deal with the impact of the current recession which has resulted in much lower government revenues. This has increased uncertainty and made contracting for new projects extremely difficult due to the uncertainty inherent in this process as well as the rules with apply to these continuing resolutions. •The current economic recession while funding two wars overseas has resulted in record deficits for the federal government. Local governments have also been adversely affected by the economic downturn. Practically all governmental entities have suffered unprecedented declines in revenue while they continue to spend to stimulate the economy or maintain and expand needed services. This has resulted in record deficits for most governmental entities. This most probably will make it more difficult to begin new projects with these entities, even when we can drive significant savings or cost reductions. •Our government clients reserve the right to audit our contract costs, including allocated indirect costs, and conduct inquiries and investigations of our business practices with respect to our government contracts. Such an audit may result in prospective adjustments to previously agreed rates for our work and affect our future margins. •If a government client discovers improper or illegal activities in the course of audits or investigations, we may become subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative 14 Table of Contents sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from doing business with related or other government entities. •Government contracts, and the proceedings surrounding them, are often subject to more extensive scrutiny and publicity than commercial contracts. The number and terms of new government contracts signed can be affected significantly by political and economic factors, such as pending elections, changes in administrations, and revisions to government policies. Negative publicity related to our government contracts, regardless of its accuracy, may damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts. •We may have difficulty finding suitable professionals to enable us to comply with governmental regulations due to the unique experience qualifications required for our consultants for some engagements. •Many of our government clients are affected by the timing and duration of military conflicts in which the United States is involved. Funds intended for future contract renewals could be re-appropriated and may not be available for our services and solutions as a result of the fiscal needs of other areas of the military during times of conflict. •Government personnel who make decisions with respect to the award of military and other government contracts move in and out of such decision-making positions. We must expend significant effort educating such decision makers about our business and capabilities, and developing and maintaining relationships with decision makers at appropriate levels within our client organizations. If we fail to successfully identify, educate and maintain relationships with appropriate decision makers within our clients' organizations, our ability to compete for new contracts, and therefore our business generally, may suffer. The impact of any of the occurrences or conditions described above could affect not only our business with the particular government entity involved, but also other related and unrelated government entities. Depending on the size of the project or the magnitude of the costs, penalties or negative publicity involved, any of these occurrences or conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Failure to maintain strong relationships with our contracting intermediaries could result in less favorable contract terms and a decline in our revenue. In prior years we have derived substantial revenue from government engagements in which we utilized a contracting intermediary. Although we also contract directly with the federal government through our listing with the General Services Administration, we evaluate, on a project-by-project basis, whether to use an intermediary to act as a prime contractor and provide contracting and administrative services. We expect to continue to use intermediaries as prime contractors for certain contracts with the federal government or with other governmental or public entities when appropriate. In such cases, we will enter into agreements with such intermediaries that define the terms of our arrangement such as payment terms and specific deliverables. Future terms with contracting intermediaries may be less favorable than the terms under which we currently operate. Financial difficulties of an intermediary could cause a delay in remission of government funds to us and force us to seek other intermediaries. We enter into fixed, task-based and incentive fee engagements with our clients and unexpected costs, delays or failures to achieve anticipated cost reductions or performance improvements could make our contracts less profitable. We charge for our professional services and solutions based on fixed fee arrangements, task-based fees or incentive fees. Fixed fee contracts require us to price our contracts by estimating our 15 Table of Contents expenditures in advance. Our ability to properly estimate the costs and timing for completing client projects is critical to the profitability of our fixed fee contracts. Task-based contracts also require us to estimate our expenditures in advance, and an appropriate billing amount is assigned to each completed task or deliverable based on the estimated cost for each specific task. Incentive fees are based on client-specific measures, such as the achievement of specified process improvements, cost reductions or designated goals. We must estimate our costs to deliver such client-specific measures and design the incentive calculation accordingly to achieve our desired profit margin. Our cost, pricing and margin estimates reflect our professional judgment regarding our costs and the efficiencies of our consultants and processes. Any increased or unexpected costs, delays or failures to achieve anticipated cost reductions or performance improvements in connection with the performance of these engagements, including delays caused by factors outside our control, could make these contracts less profitable or unprofitable, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Furthermore, incentive fees are affected by the client's business performance and prevailing economic conditions, both of which are beyond our control, which may cause variability in revenue and profit margins earned on such contracts and may limit our ability to forecast our future revenue. Our revenue and operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, and fluctuations in operating results could cause our stock price to be volatile and unpredictable. Our revenue and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors. In future quarters, operating results may be below the expectations of market analysts or investors, and the price of our common stock may decline or may be volatile and unpredictable. Factors that could cause quarterly fluctuations include: •a shift to shorter term contracts by clients in response to the economic cycle; •the beginning and ending of significant contracts during a quarter; •the number, size and scope of our ongoing engagements; •variations in the amount of revenue attributable to incentive fees; •our ability to recruit and retain qualified professionals; •the extent to which our consultants can be reassigned efficiently from one engagement to another; •fluctuations in demand for our professional services and solutions resulting from budget cuts, project delays, cyclical downturns or similar events; •the occurrence and duration of conflicts involving the United States military, which could cause delays or changes in program operations related to our government clients; •clients' decisions to divert resources to other projects; •collectability of receivables; and •reductions in the prices of services and solutions offered by our competitors. Our gross margins and profitability will suffer if we are not able to maintain our pricing and utilization rates and control our costs. Our gross margin is largely a function of the fees we are able to charge for our services and solutions and the efficiency with which we are able to utilize our consultants. Accordingly, if we are not able to generate sufficient revenue or to maintain the pricing for our services and solutions or to maintain an appropriate utilization rate for our consultants without corresponding cost reductions, our gross margins and profitability will be negatively impacted. 16 Table of Contents Our ability to generate revenue and our pricing for our professional services and solutions is affected by a number of factors, including: •our clients' perceptions of our ability to add value through our services and solutions; •introduction of new services or solutions by us or our competitors; •competition for a specific contract; •pricing policies of our competitors; and •market demand for our services and solutions and general economic conditions. Our utilization rates are also affected by a number of factors, including: •the number and size of our client engagements; •unanticipated changes in the duration or scope of client engagements; •our ability to transition consultants from completed projects to new engagements; •our ability to forecast demand for our services and solutions and thereby maintain an appropriate headcount in each area of expertise; and •our ability to manage attrition. The consulting services industry is highly competitive and actions by competitors could render our services and solutions less competitive, causing revenue and profit margin to decline. The consulting services industry in which we operate is highly competitive and significantly fragmented. We compete with a large number of diverse service providers, including business operations consulting firms, financial consulting firms, management consulting firms, accounting firms, technical and economic advisory firms, regional and specialty consulting firms and internal professional resources of existing and potential clients. In addition, since there are relatively low barriers to entry into the consulting services market, we expect new entrants into our operations management consulting field to result in continued and additional future competition. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources, professional staffs, industry specific expertise and name recognition than we do. Competitive pressures could reduce our market share or require us to reduce the price of our services and solutions, either of which could harm our business and results of operations. In addition, our ability to compete depends on a number of factors outside of our control, including: •the prices at which others offer competitive services, including aggressive price competition and discounting on individual engagements; •the ability of our competitors to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns; •the ability of our competitors to fund more extensive sales organizations; •the extent, if any, to which our competitors develop proprietary tools that improve their ability to compete; •the ability of our clients and potential clients to perform the services themselves; and •the extent of our competitors' responsiveness to client needs. We may not be able to compete effectively on these or other factors. If we are unable to compete effectively, our market position, and therefore our revenue and results of operations, could decline. 17 Table of Contents If we are unable to attract, hire, develop, train and retain experienced consultants and sales professionals, our competitive position and financial performance could suffer. Our business consists primarily of the delivery of professional services and solutions and our success depends upon the efforts, abilities and project execution of our business consultants. Our consultants have highly specialized skills. If key consultants leave and we are unable to replace them with suitable candidates, we could experience difficulty in managing the affected client engagements. Professionals with requisite credentials and experience qualified to be our consultants are in demand and we face significant competition for these professionals from our competitors, academic institutions, government entities, research firms and other organizations, including our clients. In addition, we rely on our sales professionals to develop business opportunities and client relationships. We face significant competition for these sales professionals from our competitors. Competing employers for both consultants and sales professionals may be able to offer greater compensation and benefits or more attractive lifestyle choices, career paths or geographic locations than we do. Typically, our consultants have close relationships with the clients they serve. Our agreements with our clients typically include non-solicitation arrangements. If a client hires one of our consultants in violation of the non-solicitation provisions, we will consider any legal remedies we may have on a case-by-case basis. However, we may decide preserving cooperation and a professional relationship with our clients, or other concerns, outweigh the benefits of any possible legal recovery. Therefore, we may determine not to pursue legal action. Furthermore, our employment agreements with our employees, including consultants and sales professionals, typically include non-competition provisions. However, many states, including Texas, generally interpret non-competition clauses narrowly. Therefore, if a consultant or salesperson leaves and goes into business in competition with us or joins a competitor, we may not have reasonably available legal recourse and our client relationships could suffer. Our inability to attract, hire, develop, train and retain consultants or sales professionals could limit our ability to accept or complete engagements and adversely affect our competitive position and financial performance. It may be difficult for us to differentiate the professional services and solutions we offer to our clients from those offered by our competitors. Many of our competitors offer consulting services that are similar to those provided by our consultants. Although we strive to differentiate our services and solutions by using experienced professionals to deliver improvements using our proprietary PVM approach and methodology or other intellectual property, there can be no guarantee that potential clients will find such differentiation persuasive. If we cannot effectively differentiate our services and solutions from those offered by our competitors, our sales efforts could be adversely affected, and therefore our revenue and our results of operations could decline. We must continually enhance our services and solutions to meet the changing needs of our clients or face the possibility of losing future business to competitors. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to enhance existing services and solutions and to introduce new services and solutions to meet the requirements of our clients in a rapidly developing and evolving market. For example, certain clients may require a different methodology from what our consultants typically utilize. In such cases, we may have to train our consultants to utilize different methodologies. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources, professional staffs and expertise in certain methodologies than we do. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to changes in client requirements. If we are unable to anticipate or respond adequately to our clients' needs, our revenue could decline and our results of operations could suffer. 18 Table of Contents Maintaining our reputation is critical to our future success. We have invested significant time and resources in building our reputation and name recognition. Our ability to gain market acceptance of the Thomas Group brand and to secure new engagements depends heavily on our reputation and our ability to provide high quality, reliable and cost-effective services and solutions. Some of our engagements come from former or existing clients or from referrals by former or existing clients. Consequently, if we fail to perform our services and solutions in a manner meeting our clients' expectations, our reputation may be damaged and our ability to attract new business or new consultants, our competitive position and our results of operations could suffer. If we are unable to grow, or if we fail to manage growth or fluctuations in the size of our business successfully, our revenue and results of operations could be adversely affected. Any failure on our part to grow or to manage growth or fluctuations in the size of our business successfully could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. Our current focus is on expanding our client base into new areas of the federal government and into new areas within the U.S. military. Expanding our position in these areas will likely require extensive management attention and may increase our overall selling, general and administrative expenses. Current budget issues in the federal government make obtaining new significant contracts more challenging than in any recent period. The result has been an increase in the number of short term contracts, which may or may not be extended upon termination. In some cases, when they are extended, it is only after a gap period of several weeks or months. This makes it more challenging to manage our resource pool of consultants and to manage the cost of them as demand changes. If we fail to do so, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our engagements could result in professional liability, which could be very costly and damage our reputation. Our engagements typically address complex business challenges which require us to exercise professional judgment. As a result, we are subject to the risk of professional liability. If a client questions the quality of our work, the client could bring a lawsuit to recover damages or contest its obligation to pay our fees. Litigation alleging that we performed negligently or breached our obligations to a client could expose us to significant legal liabilities and, regardless of the merits or outcome, could be very costly and could distract our management and damage our reputation. Although our engagement agreements typically include provisions designed to limit our exposure to legal claims, they may not protect us under some circumstances. In addition, we carry professional liability insurance to cover many of these types of claims, but policy limits and breadth of coverage may be inadequate to cover any particular claim or all claims plus the cost of our legal defense. For example, we provide services and solutions on engagements in which the impact on a client may substantially exceed the limits of our errors and omissions insurance coverage. If we are found to have professional liability with respect to work performed on such an engagement, we may not have sufficient insurance to cover the entire liability. Liability in excess of our insurance limits would have to be borne directly by us and could seriously harm our profitability, financial position and reputation. Inability to protect intellectual property could harm our competitive position and financial performance. We have only a limited ability to protect our intellectual property rights, which are important to our success. Our PVM approach and proprietary methodologies are trade secrets not capable of being patented, and there can be no assurance our competitors will not acquire or develop substantially similar methodologies or that our clients will not adopt our methodologies without our assistance. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary trade secrets from unauthorized use or disclosure, such as use of nondisclosure and non-competition agreements with our current and former employees, our current or former employees or others may attempt to disclose, obtain or use our trade secrets. The steps we have taken to protect our proprietary trade secrets may not prevent misappropriation, 19 Table of Contents particularly in foreign countries where laws or law enforcement practices may not protect intellectual property rights as fully as in the United States. The unauthorized use of our trade secrets or use of substantially similar methodologies and solutions by our competitors or others could harm our competitive position and financial performance. If we fail to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting or if we are unable to timely complete our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, we may be subject to a loss of public confidence and other negative consequences, and the trading price of our stock could be negatively impacted. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the "Dodd-Frank Act") was enacted and signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, amends Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to provide that non-accelerated filers, including smaller reporting companies, are permanently exempt from the requirement to obtain an attestation of management's assessment of internal controls over financial reporting from the reporting company's independent registered public accounting firm. As a smaller reporting company, our management must still complete an internal assessment of our internal controls, but we are not required to seek attestation of our assessment from our independent registered public accounting firm. Effective internal controls assist us in providing reliable financial reports and to effectively detect and prevent fraud. As we have become a much smaller company with fewer general and administrative staff, however, it has become more difficult to achieve and maintain the existing internal control structure, and to afford the costs of doing so. While we intend to try to maintain effective internal controls, if we fail, we may experience a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. This could harm our ability to sign new contracts with clients and to obtain financing for the business. It may also negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. Operating internationally exposes us to special risks and factors that could negatively impact our business or operations and could result in increased expenses and declining profit margin. We currently operate primarily in the United States and have limited operations through a non-owned affiliate in Europe. If our revenue from international operations does not exceed the expense associated with establishing and maintaining our international operations, our results of operations could suffer. International operations create special risks, including the following: •local legal and regulatory requirements, such as import/export controls, content requirements, trade restrictions, tariffs and foreign taxes, sanctions, data privacy laws and labor regulations, may impair our ability to operate efficiently or expatriate foreign profits; •enforcing agreements with clients and collecting accounts receivable may be more difficult in certain foreign jurisdictions; •foreign intellectual property laws may make enforcement of our intellectual property rights in foreign countries more difficult; •increased competition from local consultants may hamper our marketing and sales opportunities in certain locations; •general economic and political conditions in the foreign countries in which we operate could have an adverse impact on our earnings from operations in those countries; 20 Table of Contents •fluctuations in currency exchange rates, may affect demand for our services and solutions and may adversely affect the profitability in United States dollars of services and solutions provided by us in foreign markets where payment for our services is made in the local currency; and •more burdensome employee benefit requirements may impair our ability to maintain appropriate gross profit margins. We may not pay dividends in the future. We ceased paying dividends after the payment for the quarter ended December 31, 2007, which was paid in January 2008. The payment of future cash dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, the level of our capital expenditures, restrictive covenants in our credit facility (if any), future business prospects and any other matters that our Board of Directors deems relevant. We currently have no plans to pay dividends in the future. We may need additional capital in the future, and this capital may not be available to us. The raising of additional capital may dilute existing stockholders' ownership. We may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings in order to: •fund operating losses; •expand our operations; •develop new services and solutions; •respond to competitive pressures; or •pursue strategic acquisitions. Any additional capital raised through the sale of equity may dilute our existing stockholders' ownership percentage. Based on our current forecast, we believe that existing cash resources and cash generated from current operations will be sufficient to satisfy our operating cash needs at least through March 31, 2012. Our inability to raise additional financing, if needed, could have adverse consequences to our existing stockholders and to us. Any future decreases in our operating income, cash flow, or stockholders' equity may further impair our future ability to raise additional funds to finance operations. Any additional financing we may need may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, and Delaware law may discourage an acquisition of our company. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. In addition, our directors including Gen. John T. Chain, Jr. currently have and may continue to have a significant ownership interest in our common stock which would make it difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding common stock, without their consent. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 21 Table of Contents 