Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below before making an investment decision. Our business could be harmed if any of these risks, as well as other risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, materialized. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In assessing the risks described below, you should also refer to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes and schedules, and other filings with the SEC before deciding to purchase any shares of our common stock. We depend on a limited number of major vehicle sellers for a substantial portion of our revenues. The loss of one or more of these major sellers could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and an inability to increase our sources of vehicle supply could adversely affect our growth rates. Historically, a limited number of vehicle sellers have accounted for a substantial portion of our revenues. Seller arrangements are either written or oral agreements typically subject to cancellation by either party upon 30 to 90 days notice. Vehicle sellers have terminated agreements with us in the past in particular markets, which has affected the pricing for sales services in those markets. There can be no assurance that our existing agreements will not be cancelled. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to enter into future agreements with vehicle sellers or that we will be able to retain our existing supply of salvage vehicles. A reduction in vehicles from a significant vehicle seller or any material changes in the terms of an arrangement with a substantial vehicle seller could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, a failure to increase our sources of vehicle supply could adversely affect our earnings and revenue growth rates. During fiscal 2009, no single customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenues. Our acquisitions in the UK expose us to risks arising from the acquisitions and risks associated with operating in markets outside North America. We may acquire additional companies in the UK or other countries in Europe or seek to establish new yards or facilities to complement the acquired companies' operations. We have limited experience operating outside North America, and any failure to integrate these recently acquired companies or future UK or other European acquisitions into our operations successfully could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. During fiscal 2007, we completed the acquisition of Universal Salvage plc, or Universal, our first acquisition in the UK. In fiscal 2008, we completed the acquisitions of Century Salvage Sales Limited, or Century, Simpson Bros. (York) Holdings, Limited and AG Watson Auto Salvage & Motor Spares (Scotland) Limited, all located within the UK. We may continue to acquire additional companies or operations in the UK or other countries in Europe or may seek to establish new yards or operations in the UK or Europe now that we have established a presence in these markets. We have limited experience operating our business outside North America, which presents numerous strategic, operational, and financial risks to us. Our acquisitions in the UK and continued expansion of our operations outside North America pose substantial risks and uncertainties that could have an adverse effect on our future operating results. In particular, we may not be successful in realizing anticipated synergies from these acquisitions, or we may experience unanticipated costs or expenses integrating the acquired operations into our existing business. For example, in the second quarter of fiscal 2008, we experienced losses associated with credit card fraud in the UK. Although historical practice in the UK market has been to accept credit cards, we have not accepted them in North America and may need to further enhance our security systems to reduce the risk of credit card fraud. In addition, our 17 Table of Contents operating expenses were adversely affected in the second quarter of fiscal 2008 by incremental integration expenses. We have and may continue to incur substantial expenses establishing new yards or operations in the UK or Europe. Among other things, we have deployed our VB2 online vehicle auction technologies at all of our operations in the UK and we cannot predict whether this deployment will be successful or will result in increases in the revenues or operating efficiencies of any acquired companies relative to their historic operating performance. Integration of our respective operations, including information technology integration and integration of financial and administrative functions, may not proceed as we currently anticipate and could result in presently unanticipated costs or expenses (including unanticipated capital expenditures) that could have an adverse effect on our future operating results. We cannot provide any assurances that we will achieve our business and financial objectives in connection with these acquisitions or our strategic decision to expand our operations internationally. We have limited experience operating our business outside North America and lack familiarity with local laws, regulations and business practices. We will need to develop policies and procedures to manage our business on a global scale. Operationally, the businesses of Universal, Century and AG Watson have depended on key seller relationships, and our failure to maintain those relationships would have an adverse effect on our operating objectives for the UK and could have an adverse effect on our future operating results. In addition, we anticipate our international operations will subject us to a variety of risks associated with operating on an international basis, including: •the difficulty of managing and staffing foreign offices and the increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; •the need to localize our product offerings, particularly with respect to VB2; •tariffs and trade barriers and other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to operate in certain foreign markets; and •exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk, which we have not been previously subject to in any material amounts and which had an adverse impact on our revenues and revenue growth rates during the twelve months ended July 31, 2009. As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international operations and have an adverse effect on our operating results. If we determine that our goodwill has become impaired, we could incur significant charges that would have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of assets acquired in business combinations. In recent periods, the amount of goodwill on our balance sheet has increased substantially, principally as a result of a series of acquisitions we have made in the UK since 2007. As of July 31, 2009, the amount of goodwill on our balance sheet subject to future impairment testing was approximately $166 million. Pursuant to SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, we are required to annually test goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives to determine if impairment has occurred. Additionally, interim reviews must be performed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. If the testing performed indicates that impairment has occurred, we are required to record a non-cash impairment charge for the difference between the carrying value of the goodwill or other intangible assets and the implied fair value of the goodwill or other intangible assets in the period the determination is made. The testing of goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment requires us to make significant estimates about our future 18 Table of Contents performance and cash flows, as well as other assumptions. These estimates can be affected by numerous factors, including changes in the definition of a business segment in which we operate, changes in economic, industry or market conditions, changes in business operations, changes in competition or potential changes in the share price of our common stock and market capitalization. Changes in these factors, or changes in actual performance compared with estimates of our future performance, could affect the fair value of goodwill or other intangible assets, which may result in an impairment charge. For example, continued deterioration in worldwide economic conditions could affect these assumptions and lead us to determine that a goodwill impairment is required with respect to our acquisitions in the UK. We cannot accurately predict the amount or timing of any impairment of assets. Should the value of our goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and could result in our incurring net losses in future periods. In the UK we operate primarily on a principal basis, purchasing the salvage vehicle outright from the insurance companies and reselling the vehicle to buyers. Continued operations on a principal basis will have a negative impact on our future consolidated gross margin percentages and exposes us to additional inventory risks. The period-to-period comparability of our operating results and financial condition is substantially affected by business acquisitions during such periods. In particular, the UK acquisitions, because of their size and, also, because the UK operates primarily on the principal model versus the agency model employed in North America, will have a significant impact on the comparability of revenues, margins and margin percentages in future periods. Continued operations on a principal basis will have a negative impact on our future consolidated gross margin percentages, and exposes us to inventory risks including: •loss from theft or damage; •loss from devaluation; and •loss from obsolescence. Our strategic shift from live sales to an entirely Internet-based sales model presents risks, including substantial technology risks. During 2004, in North America and during 2008 in the UK we converted all of our sales from a live auction process to an entirely Internet-based auction-style model based on technology developed internally by us. The conversion represented a significant change in the way we conduct business and currently presents numerous risks, including our increased reliance on the availability and reliability of our network systems. In particular, we believe the conversion presents the following risks, among others: •Our operating results in a particular period could be adversely affected in the event our networks are not operable for an extended period of time for any reason, as a result of Internet viruses, or as a result of any other technological circumstance that makes us unable to conduct our virtual sales. •Our business is increasingly reliant on internally developed technology, and we have limited historic experience developing technologies or systems for large-scale implementation and use. •Our general and administrative expenses have tended to increase as a percentage of revenue as our information technology payroll has increased. •The change in our business model may make it more difficult for management, investment analysts, and investors to model or predict our future operating results until sufficient historic 19 Table of Contents data is available to evaluate the effect of the VB2 implementation over a longer period of time and in different economic environments. •Our increasing reliance on proprietary technology subjects us to intellectual property risks, including the risk of third party infringement claims or the risk that we cannot establish or protect intellectual property rights in our technologies. We have filed patent applications for VB2 in the Netherlands, Canada, Australia, China, the European Union, Mexico and Japan, but we cannot provide any assurances that the patents will actually be issued, or if issued that the patents would not later be found to be unenforceable or invalid. Our results of operations may not continue to benefit from the implementation of VB2 to the extent we have experienced in recent periods. We believe that the implementation of our proprietary VB2 sales technologies across our operations has had a favorable impact on our results of operations by increasing the size and geographic scope of our buyer base and increasing the average selling price for vehicles sold through our sales. VB2 was implemented across all of our North American and UK salvage yards beginning in fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2008, respectively. We do not believe, however, that we will continue to experience improvements in our results of operations at the same relative rates we have experienced in the last few years. In addition, we cannot predict whether we will experience the same initial benefits from the implementation of VB2 in the UK market, or in future markets we may enter, that we experienced in North America. Failure to have sufficient capacity to accept additional cars at one or more of our storage facilities could adversely affect our relationships with insurance companies or other sellers of vehicles. Capacity at our storage facilities varies from period to period and from region to region. For example, following adverse weather conditions in a particular area, our yards in that area may fill and limit our ability to accept additional salvage vehicles while we process existing inventories. As discussed below, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita had, in certain quarters, an adverse effect on our operating results, in part because of yard capacity constraints in the Gulf Coast area. We regularly evaluate our capacity in all our markets and, where appropriate, seek to increase capacity through the acquisition of additional land and yards. We may not be able to reach agreements to purchase independent storage facilities in markets where we have limited excess capacity, and zoning restrictions or difficulties obtaining use permits may limit our ability to expand our capacity through acquisitions of new land. Failure to have sufficient capacity at one or more of our yards could adversely affect our relationships with insurance companies or other sellers of vehicles, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Factors such as mild weather conditions can have an adverse effect on our revenues and operating results as well as our revenue and earnings growth rates by reducing the available supply of salvage vehicles. Conversely, extreme weather conditions can result in an oversupply of salvage vehicles that requires us to incur abnormal expenses to respond to market demands. Mild weather conditions tend to result in a decrease in the available supply of salvage vehicles because traffic accidents decrease and fewer automobiles are damaged. Accordingly, mild weather can have an adverse effect on our salvage vehicle inventories, which would be expected to have an adverse effect on our revenue and operating results and related growth rates. Conversely, our inventories will tend to increase in poor weather such as a harsh winter or as a result of adverse weather-related conditions such as flooding. During periods of mild weather conditions, our ability to increase our revenues and improve our operating results and related growth will be increasingly dependent on our ability to obtain additional vehicle sellers and to compete more effectively in the market, each of which is subject to the other risks and uncertainties described in these sections. In 20 Table of Contents addition, extreme weather conditions, although they increase the available supply of salvage cars, can have an adverse effect on our operating results. For example, during the year ended July 31, 2006, we recognized substantial additional costs associated with the impact of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in Gulf Coast states. These additional costs, characterized as "abnormal" under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 151, were recognized during the year ended July 31, 2006, and included the additional subhauling, payroll, equipment and facilities expenses directly related to the operating conditions created by the hurricanes. In the event that we were to again experience extremely adverse weather or other anomalous conditions that result in an abnormally high number of salvage vehicles in one or more of our markets, those conditions could have an adverse effect on our future operating results. Macroeconomic factors such as high fuel prices, declines in commodity prices, and declines in used car prices may have an adverse effect on our revenues and operating results as well as our earnings growth rates. Macroeconomic factors that affect oil prices and the automobile and commodity markets can have adverse effects on our revenues, revenue growth rates (if any), and operating results. Significant increases in the cost of fuel could lead to a reduction in miles driven per car and a reduction in accident rates. A material reduction in accident rates could have a material impact on revenue growth. In addition, under our percentage incentive program contracts, or PIP, the cost of towing the vehicle to one of our facilities is included in the PIP fee. We may incur increased fees, which we may not be able to pass on to our vehicle sellers. A material increase in tow rates could have a material impact on our operating results. Recently, the markets in which we operate have been particularly affected by changes in fuel prices, commodity prices, and decreases in the prices of used cars. In particular, declines in scrap metal and used car prices had an adverse impact on our revenue growth rates during the twelve months ended July 31, 2009. Continued volatility in fuel, commodity, and used car prices could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and revenue growth rates in future periods. The salvage vehicle sales industry is highly competitive and we may not be able to compete successfully. We face significant competition for the supply of salvage vehicles and for the buyers of those vehicles. We believe our principal competitors include other auction and vehicle remarketing service companies with whom we compete directly in obtaining vehicles from insurance companies and other sellers, and large vehicle dismantlers, who may buy salvage vehicles directly from insurance companies, bypassing the salvage sales process. Many of the insurance companies have established relationships with competitive remarketing companies and large dismantlers. Certain of our competitors may have greater financial resources than us. Due to the limited number of vehicle sellers, particularly in the UK, the absence of long-term contractual commitments between us and our sellers and the increasingly competitive market environment, there can be no assurance that our competitors will not gain market share at our expense. We may also encounter significant competition for local, regional and national supply agreements with vehicle sellers. There can be no assurance that the existence of other local, regional or national contracts entered into by our competitors will not have a material adverse effect on our business or our expansion plans. Furthermore, we are likely to face competition from major competitors in the acquisition of vehicle storage facilities, which could significantly increase the cost of such acquisitions and thereby materially impede our expansion objectives or have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. These potential new competitors may include consolidators of automobile dismantling businesses, organized salvage vehicle buying groups, automobile manufacturers, automobile auctioneers and software companies. While most vehicle sellers have abandoned or reduced efforts to sell salvage vehicles directly without the use of service 21 Table of Contents providers such as us, there can be no assurance that this trend will continue, which could adversely affect our market share, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, existing or new competitors may be significantly larger and have greater financial and marketing resources than us; therefore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future. Because the growth of our business has been due in large part to acquisitions and development of new facilities, the rate of growth of our business and revenues may decline if we are not able to successfully complete acquisitions and develop new facilities. We seek to increase our sales and profitability through the acquisition of additional facilities and the development of new facilities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to: •continue to acquire additional facilities on favorable terms; •expand existing facilities in no-growth regulatory environments; •increase revenues and profitability at acquired and new facilities; •maintain the historical revenue and earnings growth rates we have been able to obtain through facility openings and strategic acquisitions; or •create new vehicle storage facilities that meet our current revenue and profitability requirements. As we continue to expand our operations, our failure to manage growth could harm our business and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to manage growth depends not only on our ability to successfully integrate new facilities, but also on our ability to: •hire, train and manage additional qualified personnel; •establish new relationships or expand existing relationships with vehicle sellers; •identify and acquire or lease suitable premises on competitive terms; •secure adequate capital; and •maintain the supply of vehicles from vehicle sellers. Our inability to control or manage these growth factors effectively could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Our annual and quarterly performance may fluctuate, causing the price of our stock to decline. Our revenues and operating results have fluctuated in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future on a quarterly and annual basis as a result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Factors that may affect our operating results include, but are not limited to, the following: •fluctuations in the market value of salvage and used vehicles; •the impact of foreign exchange gain and loss as a result of our recently acquired companies in the UK; •our ability to successfully integrate our newly acquired operations in the UK and any additional international markets we may enter; •the availability of salvage vehicles; •variations in vehicle accident rates; •buyer participation in the Internet bidding process; •delays or changes in state title processing; 22 Table of Contents •changes in international, state or federal laws or regulations affecting salvage vehicles; •changes in local laws affecting who may purchase salvage vehicles; •our ability to integrate and manage our acquisitions successfully; •the timing and size of our new facility openings; •the announcement of new vehicle supply agreements by us or our competitors; •the severity of weather and seasonality of weather patterns; •the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; •the availability and cost of general business insurance; •labor costs and collective bargaining; •the availability of subhaulers at competitive rates; •acceptance of buyers and sellers of our Internet-based model deploying VB2, a proprietary Internet auction-style sales technology; •changes in the current levels of out of state and foreign demand for salvage vehicles; •the introduction of a similar Internet product by a competitor; and •the ability to obtain necessary permits to operate. Due to the foregoing factors, our operating results in one or more future periods can be expected to fluctuate. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as any indication of future performance. In the event such fluctuations result in our financial performance being below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Our strategic shift to an Internet-based sales model has increased the relative importance of intellectual property assets to our business, and any inability to protect those rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Implementation of VB2 in our operations has increased the relative importance of intellectual property rights to our business. Our intellectual property rights include a patent for VB2 as well as trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and other intellectual property rights. In addition, we may enter into agreements with third parties regarding the license or other use of our intellectual property in foreign jurisdictions. Effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are distributed, deployed, or made available. We seek to maintain certain intellectual property rights as trade secrets. The secrecy could be compromised by third parties, or intentionally or accidentally by our employees, which would cause us to lose the competitive advantage resulting from those trade secrets. Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights, or any inability to protect our intellectual property rights, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. We have in the past been and may in the future be subject to intellectual property rights claims, which are costly to defend, could require us to pay damages, and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. Litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights are common among companies who rely heavily on intellectual property rights. Our reliance on intellectual property rights has increased significantly in recent years as we have implemented our VB2 auction-style sales technologies across our business and ceased conducting live auctions in our North American operations. As we face increasing competition, the possibility of intellectual property 23 Table of Contents rights claims against us grows. Litigation and any other intellectual property claims, whether with or without merit, can be time-consuming, expensive to litigate and settle, and can divert management resources and attention from our core business. An adverse determination in current or future litigation could prevent us from offering our products and services in the manner currently conducted. We may also have to pay damages or seek a license for the technology, which may not be available on reasonable terms and which may significantly increase our operating expenses, if it is available for us to license at all. We could also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense. Government regulation of the salvage vehicle sales industry may impair our operations, increase our costs of doing business and create potential liability. Participants in the salvage vehicle sales industry are subject to, and may be required to expend funds to ensure compliance with a variety of governmental, regulatory and administrative rules, regulations, land use ordinances, licensure requirements and procedures, including those governing vehicle registration, the environment, zoning and land use. Failure to comply with present or future regulations or changes in interpretations of existing regulations may result in impairment of our operations and the imposition of penalties and other liabilities. At various times, we may be involved in disputes with local governmental officials regarding the development and/or operation of our business facilities. We believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with applicable regulatory requirements. We may be subject to similar types of regulations by federal, national, international, provincial, state, and local governmental agencies in new markets. In addition, new regulatory requirements or changes in existing requirements may delay or increase the cost of opening new facilities, may limit our base of salvage vehicle buyers and may decrease demand for our vehicles. Changes in laws affecting the importation of salvage vehicles may have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Our Internet-based auction-style model has allowed us to offer our products and services to international markets and has increased our international buyer base. As a result, foreign importers of salvage vehicles now represent a significant part of our total buyer base. Changes in laws and regulations that restrict the importation of salvage vehicles into foreign countries may reduce the demand for salvage vehicles and impact our ability to maintain or increase our international buyer base. For example, in March 2008, a decree issued by the president of Mexico became effective that placed restrictions on the types of vehicles that can be imported into Mexico from the United States. The adoption of similar laws or regulations in other jurisdictions that have the effect of reducing or curtailing our activities abroad could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition by reducing the demand for our products and services. New accounting pronouncements or new interpretations of existing standards could require us to make adjustments to accounting policies that could adversely affect the financial statements. The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or the FASB, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC, and other accounting organizations or governmental entities from time to time issue new pronouncements or new interpretations of existing accounting standards that require changes to our accounting policies and procedures. To date, we do not believe any new pronouncements or interpretations have had a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations, but future pronouncements or interpretations could require a change or changes in our policies or procedures. 24 Table of Contents The operation of our storage facilities poses certain environmental risks, which could adversely effect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our operations are subject to federal, state, national, provincial and local laws and regulations regarding the protection of the environment in the countries which we have storage facilities. In the salvage vehicle remarketing industry, large numbers of wrecked vehicles are stored at storage facilities and, during that time, spills of fuel, motor oil and other fluids may occur, resulting in soil, surface water or groundwater contamination. In addition, certain of our facilities generate and/or store petroleum products and other hazardous materials, including waste solvents and used oil. In the UK, we provide vehicle de-pollution and crushing services for End-of-Life program vehicles. We could incur substantial expenditures for preventative, investigative or remedial action and could be exposed to liability arising from our operations, contamination by previous users of certain of our acquired facilities, or the disposal of our waste at off-site locations. Environmental laws and regulations could become more stringent over time and there can be no assurance that we or our operations will not be subject to significant costs in the future. Although we have obtained indemnification for pre-existing environmental liabilities from many of the persons and entities from whom we have acquired facilities, there can be no assurance that such indemnifications will be adequate. Any such expenditures or liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we experience problems with our trucking fleet operations, our business could be harmed. We rely solely upon independent subhaulers to pick up and deliver vehicles to and from our North American storage facilities. We also utilize, to a lesser extent, independent subhaulers in the UK. Our failure to pick up and deliver vehicles in a timely and accurate manner could harm our reputation and brand, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Further, an increase in fuel cost may lead to increased prices charged by our independent subhaulers, which may significantly increase our cost. We may not be able to pass these costs on to our sellers or buyers. In addition to using independent subhaulers in the UK, we utilize a fleet of company trucks to pick up and deliver vehicles from our UK storage facilities. In connection therewith, we are subject to the risks associated with providing trucking services, including inclement weather, disruptions in transportation infrastructure, availability and price of fuel, any of which could result in an increase in our operating expenses and reduction in our net income. We are partially self-insured for certain losses and if our estimates of the cost of future claims differ from actual trends, our results of our operations could be harmed. We are partially self-insured for certain losses related to medical insurance, general liability, workers' compensation and auto liability. Our liability represents an estimate of the ultimate cost of claims incurred as of the balance sheet date. The estimated liability is not discounted and is established based upon analysis of historical data and actuarial estimates. While we believe these estimates are reasonable based on the information currently available, if actual trends, including the severity of claims and medical cost inflation, differ from our estimates, our results of operations could be impacted. Further, we rely on independent actuaries to assist us in establishing the proper amount of reserves for anticipated payouts associated with these self-insured exposures. Our executive officers, directors and their affiliates hold a large percentage of our stock and their interests may differ from other shareholders. Our executive officers, directors and their affiliates beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 16% of our common stock as of July 31, 2009. If they were to act together, these shareholders would have significant influence over most matters requiring approval by shareholders, 25 Table of Contents including the election of directors, any amendments to our articles of incorporation and certain significant corporate transactions, including potential merger or acquisition transactions. In addition, without the consent of these shareholders, we could be delayed or prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us or our other investors. These shareholders may take these actions even if they are opposed by our other investors. We have a shareholder rights plan, or poison pill, which could affect the price of our common stock and make it more difficult for a potential acquirer to purchase a large portion of our securities, to initiate a tender offer or a proxy contest, or to acquire us. In March 2003, our board of directors adopted a shareholder rights plan, commonly known as a poison pill. The poison pill may discourage, delay, or prevent a third party from acquiring a large portion of our securities, initiating a tender offer or proxy contest, or acquiring us through an acquisition, merger, or similar transaction. Such an acquirer could be prevented from consummating one of these transactions even if our shareholders might receive a premium for their shares over then-current market prices. If we lose key management or are unable to attract and retain the talent required for our business, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our objectives. Our future success depends in large part upon the leadership and performance of our executive management team, all of whom are employed on an at-will basis and none of whom are subject to any agreements not to compete. If we lose the service of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, in particular Willis J. Johnson, our Chief Executive Officer, and A. Jayson Adair, our President, or if one or more of them decides to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives. Our cash investments are subject to numerous risks. We may invest our excess cash in securities or money market funds backed by securities, which may include US treasuries, other federal, state and municipal debt, bonds, preferred stock, commercial paper, insurance contracts and other securities both privately and publicly traded. All securities are subject to risk, including fluctuations in interest rates, credit risk, market risk and systemic economic risk. Changes or movements in any of these risk factors may result in a loss or an impairment to our invested cash and may have a material affect on our financial statements. The recent financial crisis and economic downturn may negatively affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for over a year, which has led to an economic downturn in the US and abroad. As a result of the ongoing financial crisis and economic downturn, the number of miles driven may continue to decrease, which may lead to fewer accident claims, a reduction of vehicle repairs, and fewer salvage vehicles. Adverse credit conditions may also affect the ability of buyers to secure financing to purchase salvaged vehicles which may adversely affect demand. In addition if the banking system or the financial markets deteriorate or remain volatile our banking institution may reduce our line of credit. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could result in declines in our reported revenues and earnings. Our reported revenues and earnings are subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We do not engage in foreign currency hedging arrangements and, consequently, foreign currency fluctuations may adversely affect our revenues and earnings. Should we choose to engage in 26 Table of Contents hedging activities in the future we cannot be assured our hedges will be effective or that the costs of the hedges will not exceed their benefits. Fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the US dollar and foreign currencies, primarily the British Pound and Canadian Dollar, could adversely affect our financial results. Investment in NASCAR sponsorships and other advertising could impact our operating results We have, in fiscal 2009, and will continue in fiscal 2010 to invest in advertising and sponsorship programs with NASCAR and other events in the motorsports industry. We may expend amounts that are material to our overall general and administrative expenses and we cannot predict what future benefits, if any, will be derived. New buyer programs could impact our operating results We have or will initiate programs to open our auctions to the general public. These programs include the Registered Broker program through which the public can purchase vehicles through a registered buyer and the Market Maker program through which registered buyers can open Copart storefronts with internet kiosks enabling the general public to search our inventory and purchase vehicles. Initiating programs that allow access to our online auctions to the general public may involve material expenditures and we cannot predict what future benefit, if any, will be derived. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 