Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below before making an investment decision. Our business could be harmed if any of these risks as well as other risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, materialized. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In assessing the risks described below, you should also refer to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes and schedule, and other filings with the SEC before deciding to purchase any shares of our common stock. We depend on a limited number of major suppliers of salvage vehicles. The loss of one or more of these major suppliers could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and an inability to increase our sources of vehicle supply could adversely affect our growth rates. Historically, a limited number of vehicle suppliers have accounted for a substantial portion of our revenues. In fiscal 2007, vehicles supplied by our largest supplier accounted for approximately 11% of our revenues. Supplier arrangements are either written or oral agreements typically subject to cancellation by either party upon 30 to 90 days notice. Vehicle suppliers have terminated agreements with us in the past in particular markets, which has affected the pricing for sales services in those markets. There can be no assurance that our existing agreements will not be cancelled. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to enter into future agreements with vehicle suppliers or that we will be able to retain our existing supply of salvage vehicles. A reduction in vehicles from a significant vehicle supplier or any material changes in the terms of an arrangement with a substantial vehicle supplier could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, a failure to increase our sources of vehicle supply could adversely affect our earnings and revenue growth rates. 19 Our United Kingdom acquisition of Universal Salvage plc on June 14, 2007 and our subsequent acquisition of Century Salvage Sales Limited on August 1, 2007 will expose us to risks arising from the acquisitions and risks associated with operating in markets outside North America. We may acquire additional companies in the United Kingdom or Europe or seek to establish new yards or facilities to complement the acquired companies’ operations. We have no prior experience operating outside North America, and any failure to integrate these recently acquired companies or future UK or European acquisitions into our operations successfully could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. During fiscal 2007, we announced the acquisition of Universal Salvage plc, or Universal, our first acquisition in the UK. Subsequently, in August 2007, we announced the acquisition of Century Salvage Sales Limited, or Century, also in the UK. We may acquire additional companies or operations in the UK or Europe or may seek to establish new yards or operations in the UK or Europe now that we have established a presence in these markets. We have no experience operating our business outside North America, which presents numerous strategic, operating, and financial risks to us. Our recent acquisitions in the UK and continued expansion of our operations outside North America pose substantial risks and uncertainties that could have an adverse effect on our future operating results. In particular, we may not be successful in realizing anticipated synergies from these acquisitions, or we may experience unanticipated costs or expenses integrating the acquired operations into our existing business. We may also incur substantial expenses establishing new yards or operations in the UK or Europe. Among other things, we intend to eventually deploy our VB2 vehicle remarketing technologies at all of our operations in the UK, where appropriate, and we cannot predict whether this deployment will be successful or will result in increases in the revenues or operating efficiencies of any acquired companies relative to their historic operating performance. Integration of our respective operations, including information technology integration and integration of financial and administrative functions, may not proceed as we currently anticipate and could result in presently unanticipated costs or expenses (including unanticipated capital expenditures) that could have an adverse effect on our future operating results. We cannot provide any assurances that we will achieve our business and financial objectives in connection with these acquisitions or our strategic decision to expand our operations internationally. We have no experience operating our business outside North America and lack familiarity with local laws, regulations and business practices. We will need to develop policies and procedures to manage our business on a global scale. Operationally, the businesses of Universal and Century have depended on key customer and supplier relationships, and we will need to maintain those. If we fail to maintain those relationships it would have an adverse effect on our operating objectives for the UK and could have an adverse effect on our future operating results. 20 In addition, we anticipate our international operations will subject us to a variety of risks associated with operating on an international basis, including: · the difficulty of managing and staffing foreign offices and the increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; · the need to localize our product offerings, particularly with respect to VB2; · tariffs and trade barriers and other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to operate in certain foreign markets; and · exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk, which we have not been previously subject to in any material amounts. As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international operations and have an adverse effect on our operating results. The period-to-period comparability of our operating results and financial condition is substantially affected by business acquisitions during such periods. In particular, the UK acquisition, because of its size and, also, because the UK operates primarily on the principal model versus the agency model employed in the US, will have a significant impact on the comparability of revenues, margins and margin percentages in future periods. Further operating on a principal basis will have a negative impact on our future consolidated gross margins. In the UK we operate primarily on a principal basis, purchasing the salvage vehicle outright from the insurance companies and reselling the vehicle to buyers. This exposes us to inventory risks including: · loss from theft or damage; · loss from devaluation; and · loss from obsolescence. Our strategic shift from live salvage sales to an entirely Internet-based sales model presents new risks, including substantial technology risks. In fiscal 2004, we converted all our North American salvage sales from a live auction process to an entirely Internet-based auction-style model based on technology developed internally by us. The conversion represents a significant change in the way we conduct business and presents numerous risks, including our increased reliance on the availability and reliability of our network systems. In particular, we believe the conversion presents the following risks, among others: · Our operating results in a particular period could be adversely affected in the event our networks are not operable for an extended period of time for any reason, as a result of Internet viruses, or as a result of any other technological circumstance that makes us unable to conduct our virtual sales. 21 · Our business is increasingly reliant on internally developed technology, and we have limited historic experience developing technologies or systems for large-scale implementation and use. · Our general and administrative expenses have tended to increase as a percentage of revenue as our information technology payroll has increased. · The change in our business model may make it more difficult for management, investment analysts, and investors to model or predict our future operating results until sufficient historic data is available to evaluate the effect of the VB2 implementation over a longer period of time and in different economic environments. · Our increasing reliance on proprietary technology subjects us to intellectual property risks, including the risk of third party infringement claims or the risk that we cannot establish or protect intellectual property rights in our technologies. We have filed patent applications for VB2 in the United States, the Netherlands, and Europe, but we cannot provide any assurances that the patents will actually be issued, or if issued that the patents would not later be found to be unenforceable or invalid. Our results of operations may not continue to benefit from the implementation of VB2 to the extent we have experienced in recent periods. We believe that the implementation of our proprietary VB2 sales technologies across our North America salvage operations has had a favorable impact on our results of operations by increasing the size and geographic scope of our buyer base and increasing the average selling price for vehicles sold through our sales. VB2 was implemented across all our salvage yards beginning in the third quarter of fiscal 2004. We do not believe, however, that we will continue to experience improvements in our results of operations at the same relative rates we have experienced in the last few years. In addition, we cannot predict whether we will experience the same initial benefits from the implementation of VB2 in the UK market, or in future markets we may enter, that we experienced in North America. Failure to have sufficient capacity to accept additional cars at one or more of our salvage yards could adversely affect our relationships with insurance companies or other suppliers of salvage vehicles. Capacity at our salvage yards varies from period to period and from region to region. For example, following adverse weather conditions in a particular area, our yards in that area may fill and limit our ability to accept additional salvage vehicles while we process existing inventories. As discussed below, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita had an adverse effect on our operating results, in part because of yard capacity constraints in the Gulf Coast area. We regularly evaluate our capacity in all our markets and, where appropriate, seek to increase capacity through the acquisition of additional land and yards. We may not be able to reach agreements to purchase independent salvage yards in markets where we have limited excess capacity, and zoning restrictions or difficulties obtaining use permits may limit our ability to expand our capacity through acquisitions of new land. Failure to have sufficient capacity at one or more of our yards could adversely affect our relationships with insurance companies or other suppliers of salvage vehicles, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. 22 Factors such as mild weather conditions can have an adverse effect on our revenues and operating results as well as our revenue and earnings growth rates by reducing the available supply of salvage vehicles. Conversely, extreme weather conditions can result in an oversupply of salvage vehicles that requires us to incur abnormal expenses to respond to market demands. Mild weather conditions tend to result in a decrease in the available supply of salvage vehicles because traffic accidents decrease and fewer automobiles are damaged. Accordingly, mild weather can have an adverse effect on our salvage vehicle inventories, which would be expected to have an adverse effect on our revenue and operating results and related growth rates. Conversely, our inventories will tend to increase in poor weather such as a harsh winter or as a result of adverse weather-related conditions such as flooding. During periods of mild weather conditions, our ability to increase our revenues and improve our operating results and related growth will be increasingly dependent on our ability to obtain additional vehicle suppliers and to compete more effectively in the market, each of which is subject to the other risks and uncertainties described in these sections. In addition, extreme weather conditions, although they increase the available supply of salvage cars, can have an adverse effect on our operating results. For example, during the year ended July 31, 2006, we recognized substantial additional costs associated with the impact of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in Gulf Coast states. These additional costs, characterized as “abnormal” under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 151, were recognized during the year ended July 31, 2006, and included the additional subhauling, payroll, equipment and facilities expenses directly related to the operating conditions created by the hurricanes. In the event that we were to again experience extremely adverse weather or other anomalous conditions that result in an abnormally high number of salvage vehicles in one or more of our markets, those conditions could have an adverse effect on our future operating results. High fuel prices may have an adverse effect on our revenues and operating results as well as our earnings growth rates. Significant increases in the cost of fuel could lead to a reduction in miles driven per car and a reduction in accident rates. A material reduction in accident rates could have a material impact on revenue growth. In addition, under our percentage incentive program contracts, or PIP, the cost of towing the vehicle to one of our facilities is included in the PIP fee. We may incur increased fees, which we will not be able to pass on to our suppliers of salvage vehicles. A material increase in tow rates could have a material impact on our operating results. The salvage vehicle sales industry is highly competitive and we may not be able to compete successfully. We face significant competition for the supply of salvage vehicles and for the buyers of those vehicles. We believe our principal competitors include other vehicle remarketing companies with whom we compete directly in obtaining vehicles from insurance companies and other suppliers, and large vehicle dismantlers, who may buy salvage vehicles directly from insurance companies, bypassing the salvage sales process. Many of the insurance companies have established relationships with competitive remarketing companies and large 23 dismantlers. Certain of our competitors may have greater financial resources than us. Due to the limited number of vehicle suppliers, particularly in the UK, the absence of long-term contractual commitments between us and our suppliers and the increasingly competitive market environment, there can be no assurance that our competitors will not gain market share at our expense. We may also encounter significant competition for local, regional and national supply agreements with vehicle suppliers. There can be no assurance that the existence of other local, regional or national contracts entered into by our competitors will not have a material adverse effect on our business or our expansion plans. Furthermore, we are likely to face competition from major competitors in the acquisition of salvage vehicle remarketing facilities, which could significantly increase the cost of such acquisitions and thereby materially impede our expansion objectives or have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. These potential new competitors may include consolidators of automobile dismantling businesses, organized salvage vehicle buying groups, automobile manufacturers, automobile auctioneers and software companies. While most vehicle suppliers have abandoned or reduced efforts to sell salvage vehicles directly without the use of service providers such as us, there can be no assurance that this trend will continue, which could adversely affect our market share, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, existing or new competitors may be significantly larger and have greater financial and marketing resources than us; therefore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future. Because the growth of our business has been due in large part to acquisitions and development of new salvage vehicle facilities, the rate of growth of our business and revenues may decline if we are not able to successfully complete acquisitions and develop new facilities. We seek to increase our sales and profitability through the acquisition of other salvage vehicle facilities and the development of new salvage vehicle facilities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to: · continue to acquire additional facilities on favorable terms; · expand existing facilities in no-growth regulatory environments; · increase revenues and profitability at acquired and new facilities; · maintain the historical revenue and earnings growth rates we have been able to obtain through facility openings and strategic acquisitions; or · create new salvage vehicle storage facilities that meet our current revenue and profitability requirements. 24 As we continue to expand our operations, our failure to manage growth could harm our business and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to manage growth is not only dependent on our ability to successfully integrate new facilities, but also on our ability to: · hire, train and manage additional qualified personnel; · establish new relationships or expand existing relationships with vehicle suppliers; · identify and acquire or lease suitable premises on competitive terms; · secure adequate capital; and · maintain the supply of vehicles from vehicle suppliers. Our inability to control or manage these growth factors effectively could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Our annual and quarterly performance may fluctuate, causing the price of our stock to decline. Our revenues and operating results have fluctuated in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future on a quarterly and annual basis as a result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Factors that may affect our operating results include, but are not limited to, the following: · fluctuations in the market value of salvage and used vehicles; · as a result of our recently acquired companies in the UK, the impact of foreign exchange gain and loss; · our ability to successfully integrate our newly acquired operations in the UK and any additional international markets we may enter; · the availability of salvage vehicles; · variations in vehicle accident rates; · buyer participation in the Internet bidding process; · delays or changes in state title processing; · changes in international, state or federal laws or regulations affecting salvage vehicles; · changes in local laws affecting who may purchase salvage vehicles; · our ability to integrate and manage our acquisitions successfully; · the timing and size of our new facility openings; · the announcement of new vehicle supply agreements by us or our competitors; · severity of weather and seasonality of weather patterns; 25 · the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; · the availability and cost of general business insurance; · labor costs and collective bargaining; · availability of subhaulers at competitive rates; · acceptance of buyers and sellers of our Internet-based model deploying VB2, a proprietary Internet auction-style sales technology, including in the UK market where we still sell salvage vehicles using live auctions; · changes in the current levels of out of state and foreign demand for salvage vehicles; · the introduction of a similar Internet product by a competitor; and · the ability to obtain necessary permits to operate salvage storage facilities. Due to the foregoing factors, our operating results in one or more future periods can be expected to fluctuate. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as any indication of future performance. In the event such fluctuations result in our financial performance being below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Our strategic shift to an Internet-based sales model has increased the relative importance of intellectual property assets to our business, and any inability to protect those rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Implementation of VB2 across our North American salvage operations has increased the relative importance of intellectual property rights to our business. Our intellectual property rights include pending patent applications for VB2 as well as trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and other intellectual property rights. We are in the process of prosecuting an initial patent application relating to VB2 and cannot predict whether a patent will actually issue from that application. Even if a patent is issued, the scope of the protection gained may be insufficient or any issued patent could subsequently be deemed invalid or unenforceable. In addition, we are increasingly entering into agreements with third parties regarding the license or other use of our intellectual property in foreign jurisdictions. Effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are distributed, deployed, or made available. We seek to maintain certain intellectual property rights as trade secrets. The secrecy could be compromised by third parties, or intentionally or accidentally by our employees, which would cause us to lose the competitive advantage resulting from those trade secrets. Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights, or any inability to protect our intellectual property rights, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. 26 We have in the past been and may in the future be subject to intellectual property rights claims, which are costly to defend, could require us to pay damages, and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. Litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights are common among companies who rely heavily on intellectual property rights. Our reliance on intellectual property rights has increased significantly in recent years as we have implemented our VB2 auction-style sales technologies across our business and ceased conducting live auctions in our North American operations. As we face increasing competition, the possibility of intellectual property rights claims against us grows. Litigation and any other intellectual property claims, whether with or without merit, can be time-consuming, expensive to litigate and settle, and can divert management resources and attention from our core business. An adverse determination in current or future litigation could prevent us from offering our products and services in the manner currently conducted. We may also have to pay damages or seek a license for the technology, which may not be available on reasonable terms and which may significantly increase our operating expenses, if it is available for us to license at all. We could also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense. New accounting pronouncements or new interpretations of existing standards could require us to make changes or adjustments in our accounting policies and procedures that could adversely affect our financial statements. The Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC, or other accounting organizations or governmental entities issue new pronouncements or new interpretations of existing accounting standards that may require us to change our accounting policies and procedures. To date, we do not believe any new pronouncements or interpretations have had an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations, but future pronouncements or interpretations could require us to change our policies or procedures. Moreover, we continually review our critical accounting policies in light of the accounting literature and changes in our operations. Government regulation of the salvage vehicle sales industry may impair our operations, increase our costs of doing business and create potential liability. Participants in the salvage vehicle sales industry are subject to, and may be required to expend funds to ensure compliance with a variety of governmental, regulatory and administrative rules, regulations, land use ordinances, licensure requirements and procedures, including those governing vehicle registration, the environment, zoning and land use. Failure to comply with present or future regulations or changes in interpretations of existing regulations may result in impairment of our operations and the imposition of penalties and other liabilities. At various times, we may be involved in disputes with local governmental officials regarding the development and/or operation of our business facilities. We believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with applicable regulatory requirements. We may be subject to similar types 27 of regulations by federal, national, international, provincial, state, and local governmental agencies in new markets. In addition, new regulatory requirements or changes in existing requirements may delay or increase the cost of opening new facilities, may limit our base of salvage vehicle buyers and may decrease demand for our vehicles. The operation of our storage facilities poses certain environmental risks, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our operations are subject to federal, state, national, provincial and local laws and regulations regarding the protection of the environment in the countries which we have storage facilities. In the salvage vehicle remarketing industry, large numbers of wrecked vehicles are stored at storage facilities and, during that time, spills of fuel, motor oil and other fluids may occur, resulting in soil, surface water or groundwater contamination. In addition, certain of our facilities generate and/or store petroleum products and other hazardous materials, including waste solvents and used oil. In the UK, we provide vehicle de-pollution and crushing services for End-of-Life program vehicles. We could incur substantial expenditures for preventative, investigative or remedial action and could be exposed to liability arising from our operations, contamination by previous users of certain of our acquired facilities, or the disposal of our waste at off-site locations. Environmental laws and regulations could become more stringent over time and there can be no assurance that we or our operations will not be subject to significant costs in the future. Although we have obtained indemnification for pre-existing environmental liabilities from many of the persons and entities from whom we have acquired facilities, there can be no assurance that such indemnifications will be adequate. Any such expenditures or liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we experience problems with our providers of fleet operations, our business could be harmed. We rely solely upon independent subhaulers to pick up and deliver vehicles to and from our North American storage facilities. Our failure to pick up and deliver vehicles in a timely and accurate manner could harm our reputation and brand, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Further, an increase in fuel cost may lead to increased prices charged by our independent subhaulers, which may significantly increase our cost. We may not be able to pass these costs on to our sellers or buyers. If we experience problems with our UK trucking fleet operations, our business could be harmed. We use a fleet of company owned trucks to pick up and deliver vehicles to and from our UK storage facilities. We are subject to the risks associated with providing trucking services, including inclement weather, disruptions in transportation infrastructure, availability and price of fuel, any of which could result in an increase in our operating expenses and reduction in our net income. 28 We are partially self-insured for certain losses. We are partially self-insured for certain losses related to medical insurance, general liability, workers’ compensation and auto liability. Our liability represents an estimate of the ultimate cost of claims incurred as of the balance sheet date. The estimated liability is not discounted and is established based upon analysis of historical data and actuarial estimates. While we believe these estimates are reasonable based on the information currently available, if actual trends, including the severity of claims and medical cost inflation, differ from our estimates, our results of operations could be impacted. Further, we rely on independent actuaries to assist us in establishing the proper amount of reserves for anticipated payouts associated with these self-insured exposures. Our executive officers, directors and their affiliates hold a large percentage of our stock and their interests may differ from other shareholders. Our executive officers, directors and their affiliates beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 20% of our common stock as of July 31, 2007. If they were to act together, these shareholders would have significant influence over most matters requiring approval by shareholders, including the election of directors, any amendments to our articles of incorporation and certain significant corporate transactions, including potential merger or acquisition transactions. In addition, without the consent of these shareholders, we could be delayed or prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us or our other investors. These shareholders may take these actions even if they are opposed by our other investors. We have a shareholder rights plan, or poison pill, which could affect the price of our common stock and make it more difficult for a potential acquirer to purchase a large portion of our securities, to initiate a tender offer or a proxy contest, or to acquire us. In March 2003, our board of directors adopted a shareholder rights plan, commonly known as a poison pill. The poison pill may discourage, delay, or prevent a third party from acquiring a large portion of our securities, initiating a tender offer or proxy contest, or acquiring us through an acquisition, merger, or similar transaction. Such an acquirer could be prevented from consummating one of these transactions even if our shareholders might receive a premium for their shares over then-current market prices. If we lose key management or are unable to attract and retain the talent required for our business, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our objectives. Our future success depends in large part upon the leadership and performance of our executive management team, all of whom are employed on an at-will basis and none of whom are subject to any agreements not to compete. If we lose the service of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, in particular Willis J. Johnson, our Chief Executive Officer, and A. Jayson Adair, our President, or if one or more of them decides to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives. 29 Executive Officers of the Registrant Executive Officers Our executive officers and their ages as of July 31, 2007 were as follows: Name Age Position Willis J. Johnson 60 Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and Director A. Jayson Adair 37 President and Director James E. Meeks 57 Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer and Director William E. Franklin 51 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Paul A. Styer 51 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Vincent W. Mitz 44 Senior Vice President of Marketing David L. Bauer 46 Senior Vice President of Information Technology and Chief Information Officer Russell D. Lowy 48 Senior Vice President of Operations Thomas E. Wylie 56 Senior Vice President of Human Resources Robert H. Vannuccini 40 Vice President of National Accounts Simon E. Rote 35 Vice President of Finance Willis J. Johnson, our founder, has served as our Chairman of the Board since 2004, Chief Executive Officer since 1986 and as a director since 1982. Mr. Johnson served as our President from 1986 until May 1995. Mr. Johnson was an officer and director of U-Pull-It, Inc., or UPI, a self-service auto dismantler which he co-founded in 1982, from 1982 through September 1994. Mr. Johnson sold his entire interest in UPI in September 1994. Mr. Johnson has over 30 years of experience in owning and operating auto dismantling companies. A. Jayson Adair has served as our President since November 1996 and as a director since September 1992. From April 1995 until October 1996, Mr. Adair served as our Executive Vice President. From August 1990 until April 1995, Mr. Adair served as our Vice President of Sales and Operations and from June 1989 to August 1990, Mr. Adair served as our Manager of Operations. James E. Meeks has served as our Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since September 1992 when he joined us concurrent with our purchase of South Bay Salvage Pool, our San Martin operation. Mr. Meeks has served as our Executive Vice President and director since October 1996 and as Senior Vice President since April 1995. From April 1986 to September 1992, Mr. Meeks, together with his family, owned and operated the San Martin operation. Mr. Meeks was also an officer, director and part owner of Cas & Meeks, Inc., a towing and subhauling service company, which he operated from 1991 to March 2001. Mr. Meeks has over 30 years of experience in the vehicle dismantling business. Effective December 31, 2007, Mr. Meeks will retire. Effective August 1, 2007, Mr. Meeks relinquished his operational responsibilities as Chief Operating Officer but will remain with the Company in an advisory capacity until his retirement. Mr. Meeks will also continue as a member of our Board of Directors. 30 William E. Franklin has served as our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since March 2004. Mr. Franklin has over 20 years of international finance and executive management experience. From October 2001 to March 2004, he served as the Chief Financial Officer of Ptek Holdings, Inc., an international telecommunications company. Prior to that he was the President and CEO of Clifford Electronics, an international consumer electronics company. Mr. Franklin received a Master’s degree in Business Administration from the University of Southern California and his Bachelor’s of Science degree in Finance from California State University, Bakersfield. Mr. Franklin is a Certified Public Accountant. Paul A. Styer has served as our General Counsel since September 1992, served as our Senior Vice President since April 1995 and as our Vice President from September 1992 until April 1995. Mr. Styer served as one of our directors from September 1992 until October 1993. Mr. Styer has served as our Secretary since October 1993. From August 1990 to September 1992, Mr. Styer conducted an independent law practice. Mr. Styer received a B.A. from the University of California, Davis and a J.D. from the University of the Pacific. Mr. Styer is a member of the California State Bar Association. Vincent W. Mitz has served as our Senior Vice President of Marketing since May 1995. Prior thereto, Mr. Mitz was employed by NER Auction Systems from 1981 until its acquisition by Copart in 1995. At NER, Mr. Mitz held numerous positions culminating as Vice President of Sales and Operations for NER’s New York region from 1990 to 1993 and Vice President of Sales & Marketing from 1993 to 1995. On August 1, 2007, Mr. Mitz relinquished the title and responsibilities of Senior Vice President of Marketing and assumed the title and responsibilities of Executive Vice President. David L. Bauer has served as our Senior Vice President of Information Technology and Chief Information Officer since joining Copart in December 1995. Prior thereto, Mr. Bauer was an independent systems consultant from 1987 to 1995. Prior to working independently, Mr. Bauer spent 1983 to 1987 working in Arthur Andersen & Company’s Management Information Consulting Division, leaving in 1987 as a Consulting Manager. Mr. Bauer earned a B.A. in Economics from the University of California, San Diego in 1981 and an MBA from University of California, Davis in 1983. Russell D. Lowy has served as our Senior Vice President of Operations since July 2002. Mr. Lowy served as Vice President of Operations, Eastern Division from December 1999 to July 2002. From December 1998 to December 1999, Mr. Lowy served as Director of Training and Auditing. Mr. Lowy served as Assistant Vice President of Operations from 1996 to 1997, Regional Manager of Northern California from 1995 to 1996 and Marketing Manager from 1993 to 1994. Prior to joining us, Mr. Lowy spent nine years with ADP—Claims Solutions Group. Mr. Lowy received a B.S. in Business Administration from California State University, Chico in 1982. On August 1, 2007, Mr. Lowy relinquished the title of Senior Vice President of Operations and assumed the title and responsibilities of Chief Operating Officer. 31 Thomas E. Wylie has served as our Senior Vice President of Human Resources since September 2003. Mr. Wylie has over 25 years of human resources and organizational change management experience. From January 2001 to November 2003 he served as Vice President, Human Resources, Systems and Administration for the California Division of Kaiser Permanente, a health care organization headquartered in Oakland, California. Prior to that he was the Vice President of Human Resources for Global Business Services, a division of Honeywell International in Morristown, New Jersey. He held several other positions with Honeywell starting in 1979. Mr. Wylie received a bachelor’s degree from Hamline University in St. Paul, Minnesota. Robert H. Vannuccini was promoted to Senior Vice President of Marketing on August 1, 2007. Prior thereto, Mr. Vannuccini served as our Vice President of National Accounts from 1999 to 2007 and our Midwest regional Account Manager from 1995 to 1999. Prior to that, Mr. Vannuccini was employed by NER as the Midwest Regional Account Manager from 1994 until its acquisition by Copart in 1995. Prior to his experience at NER, Mr. Vannuccini was an Assistant Vice President with Fleet Financial Group from 1991 to 1994. Mr. Vannuccini received his Bachelor of Business Administration degree in Banking and Finance from Hofstra University, Hempstead, New York in 1988. Simon E. Rote has served as our Vice President of Finance since March 2003. Prior thereto, Mr. Rote served as our Controller from December 1998 to March 2003, and as our Assistant Controller from December 1997 to December 1998. Mr. Rote was an auditor with KPMG LLP from 1994 to 1997. Mr. Rote received a B.S. in Accounting from St. Mary’s College in 1994. Our executive officers are elected by our board of directors and serve at the discretion of the board. There are no family relationships among any of our directors or executive officers, except that A. Jayson Adair is the son-in-law of Willis J. Johnson. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 