Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces certain risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business. If any of the events or circumstances described as risks below or elsewhere in this report actually occurs, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We rely on a few key customers, and a significant decrease in business from the loss of any one key customer or key program could substantially reduce our revenues and harm our business. We derive a significant amount of our revenues from a few major customers. For example, net sales to our five largest customers accounted for approximately 53%, 46% and 46% of net sales in fiscal 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. For fiscal 2010, two customers accounted for over 10% of net sales; Kohl’s and Macy’s accounted for approximately 20% and 11% of net sales, respectively. For fiscal 2009, two customers accounted for over 10% of net sales; Kohl’s and Macy’s accounted for approximately 17%, and 12% of net sales, respectively. For fiscal 2008, two customers accounted for over 10% of net sales; Kohl’s, and Macy’s, accounted for 15% and, 10%, net sales, respectively. A significant decrease in business from or loss of any of our major customers could harm our financial condition by causing a significant decline in revenues attributable to such customers. Although we have long-standing relationships with many of our customers, we do not have long-term contracts with any of them and purchases generally occur on an order-by-order basis. We believe that purchasing decisions are generally made independently by individual department stores within a company-controlled group. There has been a trend, however, toward more centralized purchasing decisions. As such decisions become more centralized, the risk to us of such concentration increases. Furthermore, our customers could curtail or cease their business with us because of changes in their strategic and operational initiatives, such as an increased focus on private label, consolidation with another retailer, changes in our customer’s buying patterns, financial instability and other reasons. If our customers curtail or cease business with us, our revenues could significantly decrease and our financial condition could be significantly harmed. 18 Recent and future economic conditions, including turmoil in the financial and credit markets, may adversely affect our business. Recent economic conditions may adversely affect our business, our customers, and our financing and other contractual arrangements. In addition, conditions may remain depressed in the future or may be subject to further deterioration. Recent and future developments in the United States and global economies may lead to a reduction in consumer spending overall, which could have an adverse effect on the sales of our products. Such events could adversely affect the business of our wholesale and retail customers, which may among other things, result in financial difficulties leading to restructuring, bankruptcies, liquidations, and other unfavorable events of our customers, and may cause such customers to reduce or discontinue orders of our products. Financial difficulties of our customers may also affect the ability of our customers, to access credit markets or lead to higher credit risk relating to receivables from customers. Recent or future turmoil in the financial and credit markets could make it more difficult for us to obtain financing or refinance existing debt when the need arises or on terms that would be acceptable to us. The domestic and international political situation may affect consumer confidence. The threat, outbreak or escalation of terrorism, military conflicts or other hostilities could lead to further decreases in consumer spending. The worldwide apparel industry is heavily influenced by general economic conditions. The apparel industry is highly cyclical and heavily dependent upon the overall level of consumer spending. Purchases of apparel and related goods tend to be highly correlated with cycles in the disposable income of consumers. Our wholesale customers may anticipate and respond to adverse changes in economic conditions and uncertainty by reducing inventories and canceling orders. Accordingly, a reduction in consumer spending in any of the regions in which we compete as a result of any substantial deterioration in general economic conditions (including as a result of uncertainty in world financial markets, weakness in the credit markets, the recent housing slump in the U.S., increases in the price of fuel, international turmoil or terrorist attacks) or increases in interest rates could adversely affect the sales of our products. We may not be able to anticipate consumer preferences and fashion trends, which could negatively affect acceptance of our products by retailers and consumers and result in a significant decrease in net sales. Our failure to anticipate, identify and respond effectively to changing consumer demands and fashion trends could adversely affect acceptance of our products by retailers and consumers and may result in a significant decrease in net sales or leave us with a substantial amount of unsold inventory. We believe that our success depends on our ability to anticipate, identify and respond to changing fashion trends in a timely manner. Our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change. We may not be able to continue to develop appealing styles or successfully meet constantly changing consumer demands in the future. In addition, any new products or brands that we introduce may not be successfully received by retailers and consumers. Due to the acquisition of Laundry by Shelli Segal and C&C California, we have increased our exposure to women’s apparel thus making us subject to additional changes in fashion trends as women’s fashion trends have historically changed more rapidly than men’s. If our products are not successfully received by retailers and consumers and we are left with a substantial amount of unsold inventory, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess, slow-moving inventory. If this occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be harmed. 19 The failure of our suppliers to use acceptable ethical business practices could cause our business to suffer. We require our suppliers to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices and environmental compliance. Additionally, we or our customers’ operating guidelines may require additional obligations in those areas. However, we do not control our suppliers or their labor and other business practices. If one of our suppliers violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical in the United States, the shipment of finished products to us could be interrupted, orders could be cancelled, relationships could be terminated and our reputation could be damaged. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and, consequently, our results of operations. Increases in the prices of raw materials used to manufacture our products or increases in costs to transport our products could materially increase our costs and decrease our profitability. The principal fabrics used in our business are made from cotton, wool, silk, synthetic and cotton-synthetic blends. The prices we pay for these fabrics are dependent on the market prices for the raw materials used to produce them, primarily cotton and chemical components of synthetic fabrics. These raw materials are subject to price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, government regulations, energy costs, economic climate and other unpredictable factors. Fluctuations in petroleum prices may also influence the prices of related items such as chemicals, dyestuffs and polyester yarn as well as the costs we incur to transport products from our suppliers and costs we incur to distribute products to our customers. Any raw material price increase or increase in costs related to the transport of our products (primarily petroleum costs) could increase our cost of sales and decrease our profitability unless we are able to pass higher prices on to our customers. In addition, if one or more of our competitors is able to reduce its production costs by taking greater advantage of any reductions in raw material prices or favorable sourcing agreements, we may face pricing pressures from those competitors and may be forced to reduce our prices or face a decline in net sales, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of the fabrics or other raw materials used to manufacture our products, as well as the price for labor, marketing and transportation, could have a material adverse effect on our cost of sales or our ability to meet our customers’ demands. The prices for such fabrics depend largely on the market prices for the raw materials used to produce them. The price and availability of such raw materials may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors. In the future, we may not be able to pass all or a portion of such higher prices on to our customers. We are dependent upon the revenues generated by our licensing alliances and the loss or inability to renew certain licenses could reduce our royalty income and consequently reduce our net income. Although a relatively small portion of our revenue is derived from royalty income received from our licensing partners, the interruption of the business of several of our licensing partners or the loss of several licenses at any one time could adversely affect our royalty income and net income. Royalty income from licensing accounted for $24.9 million or 3% of total revenues for fiscal 2010. We currently license the Nike, JAG, Champions Tour, PGA TOUR, Callaway Golf, Top-Flite and Pierre Cardin brands from third parties. These licenses vary in length of term, renewal conditions and royalty obligations. The average term of these licenses is three to five years with automatic renewals depending upon whether we achieve certain targeted sales goals. We may not be able to renew or extend any of these licenses on favorable terms, if at all. If we are unable to renew or extend any of these licenses, we could experience a decrease in net sales. Our business could be harmed if we do not deliver quality products in a timely manner. Our sourcing, logistics and technology functions operate within substantial production and delivery requirements and subjects us to the risks associated with suppliers, transportation, distribution facilities and other risks. If we do not comply with customer product requirements or meet their delivery requirements, our customers could reduce our selling prices, require significant margin support, reduce the amount of business they do with us, or cease to do business with us, all of which could harm our business. 20 We are subject to local laws and regulations in the U.S. If any of the laws are amended, compliance could become more expensive and directly affect our income. We are subject to U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting our business, including those promulgated under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Consumer Product Safety Act, the Flammable Fabrics Act, the Textile Fiber Product Identification Act, the rules and regulations of the Consumer Products Safety Commission, the Department of Homeland Security and various labor, workplace and related laws, as well as environmental laws and regulations. If any of these laws are amended or new laws are adopted, compliance could become more costly, and our failure to comply with such laws may expose us to potential liabilities, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operation. Because we do business abroad, our business could be harmed if changes, in political or economic stability, laws, exchange rates, or foreign trade policies should occur. Our relationship with our foreign suppliers subjects us to the risks of doing business abroad. As a result of our suppliers, in some instances, being at great geographic distances from us, our transportation costs are increased and longer lead times are required, which reduces our flexibility. Our finished goods are also subject to import duties, quotas and other restrictions. Other risks in doing business with foreign suppliers include political or economic instability, any significant fluctuations in the value of the dollar against foreign currencies, terrorist activities, and restrictions on the transfer of funds. Our efforts to maintain compliance with local laws and regulations may require us to incur significant expenses, and our failure to comply with such laws may expose us to potential liability, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Although we have not been affected in a material way by any of the foregoing factors, we cannot predict the likelihood or frequency of any such events occurring and any material disruption may have an adverse affect on our business. We may face challenges integrating the operations of our recently acquired brands or any businesses we may acquire, which may negatively impact our business. As part of our strategy of making selective acquisitions, we acquire new brands and product categories. Acquisitions have inherent risks, including the risk that the projected sales and net income from the acquisition may not be generated, the risk that the integration is more costly and takes longer than anticipated, risks of retaining key personnel, and risks associated with unanticipated events and unknown legal liabilities. Any of these and other risks may harm our business. With respect to previous acquisitions, we faced many challenges in consolidating functions and integrating management procedures, personnel and operations in an efficient and effective manner, which if not managed as projected, could have negatively impacted our business. Some of these challenges included increased demands on management related to the significant increase in the size and diversity of our business after the acquisition, the dedication of management’s attention to implement our strategies for the business, the retention and integration of key employees, determining aspects of the acquired business that were to be kept separate and distinct from our other businesses, and difficulties in assimilating corporate culture and practices into ours. We expect that we will face similar challenges if we make significant acquisitions in the future. We have a significant amount of debt, which could have important negative consequences to us, including making it difficult for us to satisfy all of our obligations in the event we experience financial difficulties. We have a significant amount of debt. As of January 2010, we had $155 million of debt outstanding (excluding amounts outstanding under our letter of credit facilities). Our indebtedness could have important consequences, including: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our senior subordinated notes, including our ability to repurchase such notes upon the occurrence of a change of control, 21 • increasing our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions and adverse changes in governmental regulations, • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate requirements, • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes, • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions because, during periods in which we experience lower earnings and cash flow, we will be required to devote a proportionally greater amount of our cash flow to paying principal and interest on our debt; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors. Our ability to pay interest on our indebtedness and to satisfy our other debt obligations will depend upon, among other things, our future operating performance and cash flow and our ability to refinance indebtedness when necessary. Each of these factors is, to a large extent, dependent on general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. If, in the future, we cannot generate sufficient cash from operations to make scheduled payments on our indebtedness or to meet our liquidity needs or other obligations, we will need to refinance our existing debt, obtain additional financing or sell assets. We cannot assure that we will be able to renegotiate or refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In addition, our interest expense may increase if general economic conditions result in an increasing interest rate environment because some of our debt is based on variable as opposed to fixed rates. We cannot assure that our business will generate cash flow, or that we will be able to obtain funding sufficient to satisfy our debt service requirements. We operate in a highly competitive and fragmented industry and our failure to successfully compete could result in a loss of one or more significant customers. The apparel industry is highly competitive and fragmented. Our competitors include numerous apparel designers, manufacturers, importers and licensors, many of which have greater financial and marketing resources than us. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the apparel industry are: • brand name and brand identity, • timeliness, reliability and quality of services provided, • market share and visibility, • price, and • the ability to anticipate customer and consumer demands and maintain appeal of products to customers. 22 The level of competition and the nature of our competitors varies by product segment with low-margin, mass-market manufacturers being our main competitors in the less expensive segment of the market and U.S. and foreign designers and licensors competing with us in the more upscale segment of the market. If we do not maintain our brand names and identities and continue to provide high quality and reliable services on a timely basis at competitive prices, we may not be able to continue to compete in our industry. If we are unable to compete successfully, we could lose one or more of our significant customers, which, if not replaced, could negatively impact our sales and financial performance. Our success depends upon the continued protection of our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. Our registered and common law trademarks, as well as certain of our licensed trademarks, have significant value and are instrumental to our ability to market our products. Our failure to successfully protect our intellectual property rights, or the substantial costs that we may incur in doing so, may have an adverse effect on our operations. We may have additional tax liabilities. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and many foreign jurisdictions. In addition to judgments associated with valuation accounts, our current tax provision can be affected by our mix of income and identification or resolution of uncertain tax positions. Because income from domestic and international sources may be taxed at different rates, the shift in mix during a year or over years can cause the effective tax rate to change. We regularly are under audit by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of our tax liabilities as a result of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. In addition, there have been proposals to reform U.S. tax laws that would significantly impact how U.S. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. We earn a portion of our income in foreign countries. Although we cannot predict whether or in what form this proposed legislation will pass, if enacted it could have a material adverse impact on our tax expense and cash flow. We depend on certain key personnel the loss of which could negatively impact our ability to manage our business. Our future success depends to a significant extent on retaining the services of certain executive officers and directors, in particular George Feldenkreis, our chairman of the board and chief executive officer, and Oscar Feldenkreis, our vice chairman, president and chief operating officer. They are each party to an employment agreement which expires in 2013. The loss of the services of either George Feldenkreis or Oscar Feldenkreis, or any other key member of management, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. Our continued success is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management and operational personnel to support our future growth. Our inability to do so may have a significant negative impact on our ability to manage our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 