Risk Factors—The price of the Group’s principal raw material is difficult to predict.” The Group also purchases fibers and microfibers for use in coverings. Both kinds of coverings are divided into several price categories: most fabrics are in the highest price categories, while the most inexpensive of the microfibers are in the lowest price categories. Fabrics are purchased exclusively in Italy from 13 suppliers which provide the product at the finished stage. Microfibers are purchased in Italy, South Korea, Taiwan, through four suppliers who provide them at the finished stage. Microfibers purchased from the Group’s Italian supplier are in some cases imported by the supplier at the greige or semi-finished stage and then finished (dyed and bonded) in Italy. Fabrics and microfibers are generally purchased from the suppliers pursuant to orders given every week specifying the quantity (in linear meters) and the delivery date. The price is determined before the fiber or microfiber is introduced into the collection. Fabrics and microfibers purchased from the Italian suppliers are delivered directly by the suppliers to the Group’s facility in Laterza, while those purchased outside of Italy are delivered to an Italian port and then sent to the Laterza facility. Microfibers and fabrics included into Italsofa and Natuzzi Editions are delivered directly by the suppliers to Chinese and Brazilian ports and then sent to the Group’s Shanghai and Salvador de Bahia facilities. The Group is able to purchase such products at reasonable prices as a result of the volume of its orders. The Group continuously searches for alternative supply sources in order to obtain the best product at the best price. 19 Table of Contents Price performance of fabrics is quite different from that of microfibers. Because fabrics are purchased exclusively in Italy and are composed of natural fibers, their prices are influenced by the cost of labor and the quality of the product. During 2008 and the beginning of 2009, fabric prices were stable due to long-term relationships with suppliers and the large volumes purchased by the Group. During the same period microfiber prices decreased due to the introduction of new suppliers and the renegotiation of prices with current suppliers. The price of microfibers is mainly influenced by the international availability of high-quality products and raw materials at low costs, especially from Asian markets. The Group obtains the chemicals required for the production of polyurethane foam from major chemical companies located in Europe (including Germany, Italy and the United Kingdom) and the polyester fiber filling for its polyester fiber-filled cushions from several suppliers located mainly in Korea, China and Taiwan. The chemical components of polyurethane foam are petroleum-based commodities, and the prices for such components are therefore subject to, among other things, fluctuations in the price of crude oil, which has decreased over the last months. The Group obtains wood and wood products for its wooden frames from suppliers in Italy and Eastern Europe. Through its plant located in Romania, the Group has begun engaging directly in the cutting and transportation of wood from Romanian forests. With regard to the Group’s collection of home furnishing accessories (tables, lamps, carpets, home accessories in different materials), most of the suppliers are located in Italy and other European countries, while some hand-made products (such as carpets) are made in India. “Supply-Chain Management” Procurement Policies and Operations Integration — In order to improve customer service and reduce industrial costs, the Group in 2009 established a definitive policy for handling suppliers and supply logistics. All of the sub-departments working in the Logistics Department have been reorganized to maximize efficiency throughout the supply-chain. The Logistics Department now coordinates periodic meetings among all of its working groups in order to identify areas of concern that arise in the supply-chain, and to identify solutions that will be acceptable to all groups. The Logistics Department is responsible for monitoring the proposed solutions in order to ensure their effectiveness. Additionally, in order to improve access to supply-chain information throughout the Group, the Logistics Department (with the support of the Information Systems department) has created a new portal that allows the Logistics Department and other departments (such as Customer Service and Sales) to monitor the movement of goods through the supply-chain. Production Planning (Order Management, Production, Procurement) — The Group’s commitment to reorganizing procurement logistics has led to: 1) the development of a logistic-production model to customize the level of service to customers; 2) a 16.0% reduction in the size of the Group’s inventory of raw materials and/or components, particularly those pertaining to coverings. This positive impact was made possible by both the development of software that allows more detailed production programming and broader access by suppliers themselves, and a more general reorganization of supplier relationships. Suppliers are now able to provide assembly lines at Italian plants with requested components within four hours; 3) the planning and partial completion of the industrial reorganization of the local production center; and 4) since January 2009, the SAP system has been implemented through the organization. 20 Table of Contents The Group also plans procurements of raw materials and components: i) “On demand” for those materials and components (which the Group identifies by code numbers) that require a shorter lead time for order completion than the standard production planning cycle for customers’ orders. This system allows the Group to handle a higher number of product combinations (in terms of models, versions and coverings) for customers all over the world, while maintaining a high level of service and minimizing inventory size. Procuring raw materials and components “on demand” eliminates the risk that these materials and components would become obsolete during the production process; and ii) “Upon forecast” for those materials and components requiring a long lead time for order completion. The Group utilizes a new forecast methodology, developed in cooperation with a consulting firm. This methodology balances the Group’s desire to maintain low inventory levels against the Sales Department’s needs for flexibility in filling orders, all the while maintaining high customer satisfaction levels. This new methodology is currently being developed together with the Group’s Information Systems Department, in order to create a new intranet portal, called Worldwide Demand Planning tool. This tool is working for sales coming from the North American and Asia Pacific market, under the supervision of a forecast manager. Once completed, it will further support corporate logistics and operations managers to better forecast the future demand for the Group’s products so as to improve the lead time from material supply to sales delivery. Special production programs—those requiring lead times shorter than three weeks—are only available to a restricted group of customers, for a limited group of collections and product combinations. Lead times can be longer than those mentioned above when a high number of unexpected orders are received. Delivery times vary depending on the place of discharge (transport lead times vary widely depending on the distance between the final destination and the production plant). All planning activities (finished goods load optimization, customer order acknowledgement, production and suppliers’ planning) are synchronized in order to guarantee that during the production process, the correct materials are located in the right place at the right time, thereby achieving a maximum level of service while minimizing handling and transportation costs. Load Optimization — With the aim of decreasing costs and safeguarding product quality, the Group attains optimum load levels for shipping by using a software developed through a research partnership with the University of Bari and the University of Copenhagen, completed in June 2006. This software manages customers’ orders to be shipped by sea with the goal of maximizing the number of orders shipped in full containers. If a customer’s order does not make optimal use of container space, revisions to the order quantities are suggested. This activity, which was previously a prerogative of the Group’s headquarters, has been almost completely transferred to Natuzzi Americas in High Point, North Carolina. Now, this software is also undergoing testing by customers. 21 Table of Contents As far as the load composition by truck is concerned, the Group has commissioned a software development project to minimize total transport costs by taking into account volume and route optimization for customers’ orders in defined areas. A prototype of this software was delivered to the Group in November 2007. The Group concluded testing of this prototype in September 2008 and it is currently operational. This software was developed by the Group jointly with Polytechnic of Bari and the University of Lecce. Transportation — The Group delivers goods to customers by common carriers. Those goods destined for the Americas and other markets outside Europe are transported by sea in 40’ high cube containers, while those produced for the European market are generally delivered by truck and, in some cases, by railway. In 2009, the Group shipped 9,000 containers (40’hc) to overseas countries and approximately 6,000 full load mega-trailer trucks to European destinations. To improve service levels, a method of Supplier Vendor Rating is under development to measure performance of carriers and distributors providing direct service. This rating system has first been extended to transport by land, and, later, also to the transport by sea. The Group relies principally on several shipping and trucking companies operating under “time-volume” service contracts to deliver its products to customers and to transport raw materials to the Group’s plants and processed materials from one plant to another. In general, the Group prices its products to cover its door-to-door shipping costs, including all customs duties and insurance premiums. Some of the Group’s overseas suppliers are responsible for delivering raw materials to the port of departure, therefore transportation costs for these materials are generally under the Group’s control. At the same time, a transportation tender has been organized during 2009. This tender involves worldwide transportation companies; the concept is to have a better service for our customers at a cheaper price reducing the number of transport companies involved in the inbound & outbound flow. Product The Group is committed to the conception, prototyping (for sofas and furnishings), production (for sofas only) and commercialization of a wide range of upholstered furniture, both in leather and in fabric, as well as furnishings and accessories. The Group also collaborates with acclaimed third-party designers and engineers for the conception and prototyping of certain products in order to enhance brand visibility, especially with respect to the Natuzzi Brand. New models are the result of a constant information flow that stems from the market (whose preferences are analyzed, filtered and translated by the product managers into a brief, including specific styles, functions and price points), and is communicated to the group of designers who, through constant work with the team from the prototypes department, sketches the creation of new products in accordance with the guidelines received. The diversity of customer tastes and preferences and the natural inclination of the Group to offer new solutions results in the development of products that are increasingly personalized. The product development process is also based on specific needs of particular clients (key accounts / mass dealers) who are capable of generating a critical mass of sales that enable the product to achieve the right market penetration. The Group’s product range falls within five broad categories of furniture: stationary furniture (sofas, loveseats and armchairs); sectional furniture; motion furniture; sofa beds; and occasional chairs (including recliners and body massage chairs). 22 Table of Contents In 2009, along with the development of new models and continuing research into new materials and design innovation, the Group also launched a company-wide project to reduce complexity, with the hopes of attaining an optimal number of products by streamlining and consolidating the number of semi-finished goods. The results of this project will likely materialize during the course of 2010 and into 2011. The Group’s wide range of products includes a comprehensive collection of sofas and armchairs with particular styles, coverings and functions, with more than two million combinations. The Group’s offering is divided into three different brands and collections that satisfy different market needs: (a) Natuzzi Collection: an inspirational, high-end brand, vigorously promoted worldwide as “Made in Italy”; (b) Editions/Natuzzi Editions Collection: a trademark that aims to generate volumes necessary to regain market share; and (c) Italsofa Collection: a brand that aspires to provide customers with tastefuldesigns at affordable prices. The Natuzzi Collection, positioned in the medium-high market, focuses on making Italian quality and style accessible through coordinated and innovative living rooms. This collection stands out for high quality in the choice of materials and finishes, as well as the creativity and details of its designs. As of March 31, 2010, this line of products offered 115 models, 9 articles in fabrics in 48 colors, 13 leather articles in 91 colors. The collection also includes a selection of additional furniture (wall units, tables, lamps, carpets), accessories (pots and candles), furniture for the dining room (tables, chairs, lamps) to offer complete furniture with the aim enabling the Group to become a real “Lifestyle Company.” The Italsofa Collection, which is characterized by a young and vibrant style, offers products for the medium-to-medium low market. As of March 31, 2010 this collection consisted of 93 models, six leather products in 41 colors, and four fabric products in 22 colors. The Natuzzi Editions/Editions Collection, as of March 31, 2010, consisted of 97 models, 17 leather products in 73 colors, and one fabric product in two colors. The Group’s overall sales are also partly the result of unbranded production, developed on the basis of specific provision agreements for important key accounts and mass-dealer clients like IKEA and Macy’s. Innovation remains a strategic activity for the Group. Product Development efforts in 2009 continued to focus on the design of new products, particularly the study of better furniture coverings, and also on improvement of the manufacturing process, with the goal of adapting to the preferences of our target consumers. See also “