Risk Factors Investing in the Company’s ADSs involves certain risks. You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the information included in this annual report. The Group has a recent history of losses; the Group’s future profitability and financial condition depend on its ability to successfully restructure its operations — The Group experienced a 50.7% decrease in earnings in 2004, and net losses totaling €14.6 million in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005. The Group attributes this downward trend to price competition from low-cost manufacturers, recurring unfavorable currency conditions, and a generally unfavorable economy in Italy and Europe, as well as negative results achieved by some non-performing foreign retail units, particularly in the United Kingdom, specific 4 Table of Contents inefficiencies in the Group’s manufacturing operations and the higher impact of fixed costs resulting from a decrease in net sales in 2004 and 2005. Although the Group reported net earnings of €12.3 million in 2006, primarily due to a reduction in order backlog and notwithstanding a weak business environment, during the first three months of 2007 the Group had net losses of €4.7 million. For more information, see Item 5, “Trend Information and Guidance”. There is no guarantee that the Group will be able to achieve or maintain profitability in the future. The Group’s future operating and financial performance and business prospects will depend in large part on the successful implementation of the restructuring plan approved by the Group’s Board of Directors on May 18, 2005, after the Group’s first quarter 2005 results showed a continuing negative trend. The restructuring plan aims to recover the Group’s profitability and increase its competitiveness by reducing manufacturing costs in Italy, increasing overall efficiencies and closing non-performing retail units in order to streamline the Company’s cost structure. The Plan is also aimed at regaining the Group’s market share, especially in the medium-high end of the market, by differentiating the Group’s brands from the competition and strengthening its market reputation. If the restructuring plan is not successful, there could be a material adverse effect on the Group’s financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. Demand for furniture is cyclical and may fall in the future — Historically, the furniture industry has been cyclical, fluctuating with economic cycles, and sensitive to general economic conditions, housing starts, interest rate levels, credit availability and other factors that affect consumer spending habits. Due to the discretionary nature of most furniture purchases and the fact that they often represent a significant expenditure to the average consumer, such purchases may be deferred during times of economic uncertainty. In 2006, the Group derived 37.2% of its leather- and fabric-upholstered furniture net sales from the United States and the Americas and 55.5% from Europe. A prolonged economic slowdown in the United States and Europe may have a material adverse effect on the Group’s results of operations. The Group operates principally in a niche area of the furniture market - The Group is a leader in the production of leather-upholstered furniture, with 86.8% of net sales of upholstered furniture in 2006 derived from the sale of leather-upholstered furniture. Leather-upholstered furniture represents a limited, but growing, portion of the market for upholstered furniture. Consumers have the choice of purchasing upholstered furniture in a wide variety of styles and materials, and consumer preferences may change. There can be no assurance that the current market for leather-upholstered furniture will not decrease. The furniture market is highly competitive — The Group operates in a highly competitive industry that includes a large number of manufacturers. No single company has a dominant position in the industry. Competition is generally based on product quality, brand name recognition, price and service. The Group principally competes in the upholstered furniture sub-segment of the furniture market. In Europe, the upholstered furniture market is highly fragmented. In the United States, the upholstered furniture market includes a number of relatively large companies, some of which are larger and have greater financial resources than the Group. Some of the Group’s competitors offer extensively advertised, well-recognized branded products. 5 Table of Contents Competition has increased significantly in recent years as foreign producers from countries with lower manufacturing costs have begun to play an important role in the upholstered furniture market. Such manufacturers are often able to offer their products at lower prices, which increases price competition in the industry. In particular, manufacturers in China, Eastern Europe and South America have increased competition in the promotional or lower-priced segment of the market. As a result of the actions and strength of the Group’s competitors and the inherent fragmentation in some markets in which it competes, the Group is continually subject to the risk of losing market share, which may lower its sales and profits. Market competition may also force the Group to reduce prices and margins, thereby reducing its cash flows. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect the Group’s results — The Group conducts a substantial part of its business outside of the euro zone. A rise in the value of the euro relative to other currencies used in the countries in which the Group operates will reduce the relative value of the revenues from its operations in those countries, and therefore may adversely affect its operating results or financial position, which are reported in euro. In addition to this translation risk, the Group is subject to currency exchange rate risk to the extent that its costs are denominated in currencies other than those in which it earns revenues. In 2006, approximately 47% of the Group’s net sales, but only approximately 40% of its costs, were denominated in currencies other than the euro. The Group is therefore exposed to the risk that fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect its results. For more information, see Item 11, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” The Group faces risks associated with its international operations — The Group is exposed to risks that arise from its international operations, including changes in governmental regulations, tariffs or taxes and other trade barriers, price, wage and exchange controls, political, social, and economic instability in the countries where the Group operates, inflation and interest rate fluctuations. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s results. The price of the Group’s principal raw material is difficult to predict - Leather is used in approximately 85% of the Group’s upholstered furniture production, and the acquisition of cattle hides represents approximately 35% of total cost of goods sold. The raw hides market’s dynamics are dependent on the consumption of beef, the levels of worldwide slaughtering, worldwide weather conditions and the level of demand in a number of different sectors, including: footwear, leather, automotive, furniture and clothing. The Group’s ability to increase product prices following increases in raw material costs is limited by market forces, and therefore the Group may not be able to maintain its margins during periods of significant increases in raw material costs. The Group’s past results and operations have significantly benefited from government incentive programs, which may not be available in the future - Historically, the Group derived significant benefits from the Italian Government’s investment incentive programs for under-industrialized regions in Southern Italy, including tax benefits, subsidized loans and capital grants. See Item 4, “Information on the Company –Incentive Programs and Tax Benefits.” In recent years, the Italian Parliament replaced these incentive programs with an investment incentive program for all under-industrialized regions in Italy, which is currently being implemented by the Group through grants and research and development benefits. There are no indications at this time that the Italian Government will implement new initiatives to support companies located in under-industrialized regions in Italy. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the Group will continue to be eligible for such grants, benefits or tax credits for its current or future investments in Italy. 6 Table of Contents In recent years, the Group has opened manufacturing operations in China, Brazil and Romania that have been granted tax benefits and export incentives. There can be no assurance that these tax benefits and export incentives will continue to be available to the Group in the future. The Group is dependent on qualified personnel - The Group’s ability to maintain its competitive position will depend to some degree upon its ability to continue to attract and maintain highly qualified managerial, manufacturing and sales and marketing personnel. There can be no assurance that the Group will be able to continue to recruit and retain such personnel. In particular, the Group has been dependent on certain key management personnel in the past, and there can be no assurance that the loss of key personnel would not have a material adverse effect on the Group’s results of operations. Investors may face difficulties in protecting their rights as shareholders or holders of ADSs - - The Company is incorporated under the laws of the Republic of Italy. As a result, the rights and obligations of its shareholders and certain rights and obligations of holders of its ADSs are governed by Italian law and the Company’s Statuto (or By-laws). These rights and obligations are different from those that apply to U.S. corporations. Furthermore, under Italian law, holders of ADSs have no right to vote the shares underlying their ADSs, although under the Deposit Agreement, ADS holders have the right to give instructions to The Bank of New York, the ADS depositary, as to how they wish such shares to be voted. For these reasons, the Company’s ADS holders may find it more difficult to protect their interests against actions of the Company’s management, board of directors or shareholders than they would as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in the United States. The Group has material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting — The Group has identified the material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting described in Item 15 of this Annual Report and has determined that its internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2006. The Group intends to remediate all such material weaknesses by the time the Group files its Annual Report on form 20-F for the year ending December 31, 2007. There can be no assurance, however, that the Group will effectively remediate all material weaknesses by that time or that additional material weaknesses will not arise in the future. The existence of material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting may undermine the Group’s ability to ensure reliable financial reporting and result in misstatements in the Group’s financial statements. Control of the Company — Mr. Pasquale Natuzzi, who founded the Company and is currently Chairman of the Board of Directors, owns 47.5% of the issued and outstanding Ordinary Shares of the Company (52.6% of the Ordinary Shares if the Ordinary Shares owned by members of Mr. Natuzzi’s immediate family (the “Natuzzi Family”) are aggregated). As a result, Mr. Natuzzi controls the Company, including its management and the selection of its Board of Directors. Since December 16, 2003, Mr. Natuzzi has held his entire beneficial ownership of Natuzzi S.p.A. shares (other than 196 ADSs) through INVEST 2003 S.r.l., an Italian holding company (having its registered office at Via Gobetti 8, Taranto, Italy) wholly-owned by Mr. Natuzzi. 7 Table of Contents In addition, the Natuzzi Family has a right of first refusal to purchase all the rights, warrants or other instruments which The Bank of New York, as Depositary under the Deposit Agreement dated as of May 15, 1993, as amended and restated as of December 31, 2001 (the “Deposit Agreement”), among the Company, The Bank of New York, as Depositary (the “Depositary”), and owners and beneficial owners of American Depositary Receipts (“ADRs”), determines may not lawfully or feasibly be made available to owners of ADSs in connection with each rights offering, if any, made to holders of Ordinary Shares. Because a change of control of the Company would be difficult to achieve without the cooperation of Mr. Natuzzi and the Natuzzi Family, the holders of the Ordinary Shares and the ADSs may be less likely to receive a premium for their shares upon a change of control of the Company. Forward Looking Information Natuzzi makes forward-looking statements in this annual report. Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about the Group’s beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements. Words such as “believe”, “expect”, “intend”, “plan” and “anticipate” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements but are not exclusive means of identifying such statements. These statements are based on current plans, estimates and projections, and therefore readers should not place undue reliance on them. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the dates they were made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any of them, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties. The Company cautions readers that a number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Such factors include, but are not limited to: effects on the Group from competition with other furniture producers, material changes in consumer demand or preferences, significant economic developments in the Group’s primary markets, significant changes in labor, material and other costs affecting the construction of new plants, significant changes in the costs of principal raw materials, significant exchange rate movements or changes in the Group’s legal and regulatory environment, including developments related to the Italian Government’s investment incentive or similar programs. Natuzzi cautions readers that the foregoing list of important factors is not exhaustive. When relying on forward-looking statements to make decisions with respect to the Company, investors and others should carefully consider the foregoing factors and other uncertainties and events. 8 Table of Contents 