Item 1A. Risk Factors - -------- ------------ THE FOLLOWING CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS ARE MADE TO PERMIT PARAGON TECHNOLOGIES, INC. TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THE "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995. Investing in the Company's Common Stock will provide an investor with an equity ownership interest in the Company. Stockholders will be subject to risks inherent in the Company's business. The performance of Paragon's shares will reflect the performance of the Company's business relative to, among other things, general economic and industry conditions, market conditions, and competition. The value of the investment in the Company may increase or decline and could result in a loss. An investor should carefully consider the following factors as well as other information contained in this Form 10-K before deciding to invest in shares of the Company's Common Stock. This Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including the risk factors described below and the other factors described elsewhere in this Form 10-K. The Company wishes to inform its investors of the following important factors that in some cases have affected, and in the future could affect, the Company's results of operations and that could cause such future results of operations to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. Disclosure of these factors is intended to permit the Company to take advantage of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Many of these factors have been discussed in prior SEC filings by the Company. Though the Company has attempted to list comprehensively these important cautionary factors, the Company wishes to caution investors that other factors may in the future prove to be important in affecting the Company's results of operations. -------------------------------- Sales of the Company's products depend on the capital spending decisions of its customers. Automated, integrated material handling systems using the Company's products can range in price from $100,000 to several million dollars. Accordingly, purchases of the Company's products represent a substantial capital investment by its customers, and the Company's success depends directly on their capital expenditure budgets. The Company's future operations may be subject to substantial fluctuations as a consequence of domestic and foreign economic conditions, industry patterns, and other factors affecting capital spending. The current domestic and international economic conditions in the Company's major markets for SI Systems' branded products, such as the electronics, telecommunications, semiconductor, appliance, pharmaceutical, food processing, and automotive components industries, have resulted in cutbacks in capital spending which has caused a direct, material adverse impact on the Company's product sales in recent years. The Company's business is largely dependent upon a limited number of large contracts with a limited number of customers. This dependence can cause unexpected fluctuations in sales volume. Since the Company recognizes sales on a percentage of completion basis for its systems contracts, fluctuations in the Company's sales and earnings occur with increases or decreases in major installations. Various external factors affect the customers' decision-making process on expanding or upgrading their current production or distribution sites. 12 The customers' timing and placement of new orders is often affected by factors such as the current economy, current interest rates, and future expectations. The Company cannot estimate when or if a sustained revival in the markets for its products will occur. If the Company is unable to maintain an increased level of sales of its products, the Company's sales will continue to be adversely affected. The Company is largely dependent upon a limited number of large contracts, including contracts with federal government agencies. The Company is largely dependent upon a limited number of large contracts from large domestic corporations and federal government agencies. This dependence can cause unexpected fluctuations in sales volume and operating results from period to period. In the year ended December 31, 2007, two customers accounted for over 10% of sales, and they are listed as follows: Vistakon, a division of Johnson & Johnson Vision Care - $7,625,000 or 35.6% and General Motors - $3,008,000 or 14.0%. In the year ended December 31, 2006, one customer accounted for over 10% of sales and is listed as follows: Caterpillar - $2,098,000 or 11.8% of total sales. In the year ended December 31, 2005, five customers accounted for over 10% of sales, and they are listed as follows: BMG Direct Marketing - $2,492,000 or 14.9%, SI/BAKER - $1,990,000 or 11.9%, Vistakon, a division of Johnson & Johnson Vision Care - $1,867,000 or 11.2%, E-Z-GO Division of Textron - $1,812,000 or 10.9%, and Honda of America Mfg. - $1,723,000 or 10.3%. No other customer accounted for over 10% of sales. The Company received $317,000 or 1.5% of its total sales from sales to government agencies in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. Accordingly, our sales have been impacted as a result of government spending cuts, general budgetary constraints, and the complex and competitive government procurement processes. If the Company is unable to attain an increased level of government-related sales, the Company's sales will continue to be adversely affected. The Company's contracts with government agencies are subject to adjustment pursuant to federal regulations. From time to time, the Company receives contracts from federal agencies. Each of the Company's contracts with federal agencies include various federal regulations that impose certain requirements on the Company, including the ability of the government agency or general contractor to alter the price, quantity, or delivery schedule of the Company's products. In addition, the government agency retains the right to terminate the contract at any time at its convenience. Upon alteration or termination of these contracts, the Company would normally be entitled to an equitable adjustment to the contract price so that the Company may receive the purchase price for items it has delivered and reimbursement for allowable costs it has incurred. From time to time, a portion of the Company's backlog is from government-related contracts. The Company's total backlog of orders at December 31, 2007 was $7,934,000, of which $19,000 was associated with U.S. government projects. Accordingly, because contracts with federal agencies can be terminated, the Company cannot assure you that backlog associated with government contracts will result in sales. The Company has not previously experienced material adjustments or terminations of government contracts. The Company must accurately estimate its costs prior to entering into contracts on a fixed-price basis. The Company frequently enters into contracts with its customers on a fixed-price basis. In order to realize a profit on these contracts, the Company must accurately estimate the costs the Company will incur in completing the contract. The Company believes that it has the ability to reasonably estimate the total costs and applicable gross profit margins at the inception of the contract for all of its systems contracts. The Company's failure to estimate accurately can result in cost overruns, which will result in the loss of profits if the Company determines that it has significantly underestimated the costs involved in completing contracts. 13 At times, uncertainty exists with respect to the resources required to accomplish the contractual scope of work dealing with the final integration of state-of-the-art automated material handling systems. As a result of past experience with cost overruns, the Company established enhanced business controls, estimating, and procurement disciplines to attempt to reduce future cost overruns. Since the Company established these controls in 2000, it has not experienced additional significant cost overruns on new contracts; however, additional cost overruns in the future could result in reduced revenues and earnings. The Company faces significant competition, which could result in the Company's loss of customers. The markets in which the Company competes are highly competitive. The Company competes with a number of different manufacturers, both domestically and abroad, with respect to each of its products and services. Some of the Company's competitors have greater financial and other resources than the Company. The Company's ability to compete depends on factors both within and outside its control, including: o product availability, performance, and price; o product brand recognition; o distribution and customer support; o the timing and success of its newly developed products; and o the timing and success of newly developed products by its competitors. These factors could possibly limit the Company's ability to compete successfully. The Company may lose market share if it is not able to develop new products or enhance its existing products. The Company's ability to remain competitive and its future success depend greatly upon the technological quality of its products and processes relative to those of its competitors. The Company may need to develop new and enhanced products and to introduce these new products at competitive prices and on a timely and cost-effective basis. The Company may not be successful in selecting, developing, and manufacturing new products or in enhancing its existing products on a timely basis or at all. The Company's new or enhanced products may not achieve market acceptance. If the Company cannot successfully develop and manufacture new products, timely enhance its existing technologies, or meet customers' technical specifications for any new products, the Company's products could lose market share, its sales and profits could decline, and it could experience operating losses. New technology or product introductions by the Company's competitors could also cause a decline in sales or loss of market share for the Company's existing products or force the Company to significantly reduce the prices of its existing products. From time to time, the Company has experienced and will likely continue to experience delays in the introduction of new products. The Company has also experienced and may continue to experience technical and manufacturing difficulties with introductions of new products and enhancements. Any failure by the Company to develop, manufacture, and sell new products in quantities sufficient to offset a decline in sales from existing products or to manage product and related inventory transitions successfully could harm the Company's business. The Company's success in developing, introducing, selling, and supporting new and enhanced products depends upon a variety of factors, including: o timely and efficient completion of hardware and software design and development; o timely and efficient implementation of manufacturing processes; and o effective sales, marketing, and customer service. 14 The Company depends on key personnel and may not be able to retain these employees or recruit additional qualified personnel, which would harm the Company's business. The Company is highly dependent upon the continuing contributions of its key management, sales, and product development personnel. The loss of the services of any of its senior managerial, technical, or sales personnel could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. None of the Company's executive officers have employment agreements with the Company. The Company does not maintain key man life insurance on the lives of any of its key personnel. The Company's future success also heavily depends on its continuing ability to attract, retain, and motivate highly qualified managerial, technical, and sales personnel. The Company's inability to recruit and train adequate numbers of qualified personnel on a timely basis could adversely affect its ability to design, manufacture, market, and support its products. The Company may face costly intellectual property infringement claims. On a few occasions, the Company has received communications from third parties asserting that it is infringing certain patents and other intellectual property rights of others, or seeking indemnification against the alleged infringement. As claims arise, the Company evaluates their merits. Any claims of infringement brought by third parties could result in protracted and costly litigation, in the Company paying damages for infringement, and in the need for the Company to obtain a license relating to one or more of its products or current or future technologies. Such a license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Litigation, which could result in substantial cost to the Company and diversion of its resources, may be necessary to enforce its patents or other intellectual property rights, or to defend the Company against claimed infringement of the rights of others. Any intellectual property litigation and the failure to obtain necessary licenses or other rights could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. The Company's failure to protect its intellectual property and proprietary technology may significantly impair the Company's competitive advantage. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate the Company's patents, copyrights, trademarks, and similar proprietary rights. The Company cannot be certain that the steps the Company has taken to prevent the misappropriation of the Company's intellectual property are adequate, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect the Company's proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. The Company relies on a combination of patent, copyright, and trade secret protection and nondisclosure agreements to protect its proprietary rights. However, the Company cannot be certain that patent and copyright law and trade secret protection will be adequate to deter misappropriation of its technology, that any patents issued to the Company will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented, that the rights granted thereunder will provide competitive advantages to the Company, or that the claims under any patent application will be allowed. The Company may be subject to or may initiate interference proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office, which can demand significant financial and management resources. The process of seeking patent protection can be time-consuming and expensive, and there can be no assurance that patents will issue from currently pending or future applications or that the Company's existing patents or any new patents that may be issued will be sufficient in scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to the Company. The Company may in the future initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of the Company's proprietary rights in order to determine the scope and validity of the Company's proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of the Company's competitors. These claims could result in costly litigation and the diversion of the Company's technical and management personnel. 15 New software products or enhancements may contain defects that could result in expensive and time-consuming design modifications or large warranty charges, damage customer relationships, and result in loss of market share. New software products or enhancements may contain errors or performance problems when first introduced, when new versions or enhancements are released, or even after such products or enhancements have been used in the marketplace for a period of time. Despite the Company's testing, product defects may be discovered only after a product has been installed and used by customers. Errors and performance problems may be discovered in future shipments of the Company's products. These errors could result in expensive and time-consuming design modifications or large warranty charges, damage customer relationships, and result in loss of market share. To date, there have been no known defects in the Company's software products that materially affected the Company's operations. The Company may be subject to product liability claims, which can be expensive, difficult to defend, and may result in large judgments or settlements against the Company. On a few occasions, the Company has received communications from third parties asserting that the Company's products have caused bodily injury to others. Product liability claims can be expensive, difficult to defend, and may result in large judgments or settlements against the Company. In addition, third party collaborators and licensees may not protect the Company from product liability claims. Although the Company maintains product liability insurance in the amount of approximately $26 million, claims could exceed the coverage obtained. A successful product liability claim in excess of the Company's insurance coverage could harm the Company's financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any successful claim may prevent the Company from obtaining adequate product liability insurance in the future on commercially desirable terms. Even if a claim is not successful, defending such a claim may be time-consuming and expensive. The Company may seek to make acquisitions or joint ventures that prove unsuccessful or strain or divert resources. The Company continues to evaluate potential acquisitions and joint ventures. However, the Company may not be able to complete any acquisitions or joint ventures at all. Acquisitions and joint ventures present risks that could materially and adversely affect the Company's business and financial performance, including: o the diversion of management's attention from everyday business activities; o the contingent and latent risks associated with the past operations of, and other unanticipated problems arising in, the acquired business; and o the need to expand management, administration, and operational systems. If the Company makes such acquisitions, it cannot predict whether: o it will be able to successfully integrate the operations and personnel of any new businesses into its business; o it will realize any anticipated benefits of completed acquisitions; or o there will be substantial unanticipated costs associated with acquisitions, including potential costs associated with environmental liabilities undiscovered at the time of acquisition. If the Company makes such joint ventures, it cannot predict whether: o it will realize any anticipated benefits of successful joint ventures; and o there will be substantial unanticipated costs associated with such joint ventures or investments. 16 In addition, future acquisitions by the Company may result in: o potentially dilutive issuances of the Company's equity securities; o the incurrence of additional debt; o restructuring charges; and o the recognition of significant charges for depreciation and amortization related to certain intangible assets. In the future, the Company may make investments in or acquire companies or commence operations in businesses and industries that are outside of those areas that the Company has operated historically. The Company cannot assure that it will be successful in managing any new business. If these investments, acquisitions, or arrangements are not successful, the Company's earnings could be materially adversely affected by increased expenses and decreased revenues. The Company may incur significant increased costs in order to assess its internal controls over financial reporting, and its internal controls over financial reporting may be found to be deficient. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires management to assess its internal controls over financial reporting and will require independent registered public accountants to attest to the effectiveness of internal controls. Current regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, require the Company to include this assessment in its Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company may incur significant increased costs in implementing and responding to the new requirements. In particular, the rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess its internal controls over financial reporting under Section 404 are complex and require significant documentation, testing, and possible remediation. The process of reviewing, documenting, and testing internal controls over financial reporting may cause a significant strain on the Company's management, information systems, and resources. The Company may have to invest in additional accounting and software systems. The Company may also be required to hire additional personnel and to use outside legal, accounting, and advisory services. In addition, the Company may incur additional fees from its independent registered public accountants when they are required to perform the additional services necessary for them to provide their attestation. If the Company is unable to favorably assess the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting when it is required to, the Company may be required to change its internal control over financial reporting to remediate deficiencies. In addition, investors may lose confidence in the reliability of the Company's financial statements, causing the Company's stock price to decline. The Company's presence in international markets exposes it to risk. The Company has a limited presence in international markets and has experienced a fluctuation in international sales volume in recent years. Maintenance and continued growth of this segment of the Company's business may be affected by changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, laws and regulations of the United States and other trading nations and by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Availability of product components could harm the Company's profitability. The Company obtains raw materials and certain manufactured components from third party suppliers. Although the Company deems that it maintains an adequate level of raw material inventory, even brief unanticipated delays in delivery by suppliers, including those due to capacity constraints, labor disputes, impaired financial condition of suppliers, weather emergencies, or other natural disasters, may adversely affect the Company's ability to satisfy its customers on a timely basis and thereby affect the Company's financial performance. 17 The Company may be impacted by the overall state of the economy. The Company remains subject to the risks associated with prolonged declines in national or local economies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates and other factors beyond the Company's control may adversely affect the Company's asset quality and, therefore, its earnings. In particular, changes in interest rates could adversely affect the Company's net interest income and have a number of other adverse effects on the Company's operations. Adverse changes in the economy may have a negative effect on the Company's operations, which could have an adverse impact on the Company's earnings. Consequently, any prolonged decline in the economy in the Company's market area could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Although the Company could attempt to mitigate or cover its exposure from such risks, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to mitigate or cover all of the costs resulting from such risks. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments - -------- ------------------------- Not applicable. 