Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the risk factors described below. Risks Related to Our Internal Control Over Financial Reporting and the Restatement of Our Previously Issued Financial Statements We have identified, and we are continuing to remediate various material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. These weaknesses could continue to adversely affect our ability to report our results of operations and financial condition accurately and in a timely manner. Our management is responsible for maintaining internal control over financial reporting designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated financial statements for external purposes in accordance with GAAP. Our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009 and identified a number of material weaknesses, primarily related to our failure to maintain an effective control environment. As a result of these material weaknesses, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2009. Further, we believe that our internal control over financial reporting remains ineffective as of the date of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. See Item 9A — Controls and Procedures. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting that creates a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. We are implementing a plan to remediate the identified material weaknesses. Our efforts have been and will continue to be time-consuming and expensive. We cannot give any assurance that the measures we are taking to remediate the identified material weaknesses will be effective. We also cannot assure you that other material weaknesses will not arise as a result of our failure to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting or that circumvention of those controls will not occur. Additionally, even if we succeed in improving our controls, those controls may not be adequate to prevent or identify errors or irregularities or ensure that our financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. - 10 - - The investigations by the Board of Directors (the “Board”) into some of our historical accounting practices and the determination of various other accounting adjustments, which resulted in the restatement of our previously issued consolidated financial statements, were time-consuming and expensive and had a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. During 2007 and 2008, we devoted substantial internal and external resources to the completion of a restatement of certain of our historical consolidated financial statements. During 2009, we have devoted substantial additional resources to preparing the audited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008. As a result of these efforts, as of December 31, 2009, we have paid in excess of $90.0 million in fees and expenses, primarily for additional accounting, tax, legal and related consulting costs, and $11.1 million in fees related to obtaining covenant waivers, including an 8.5% special interest payment of $9.4 million under our $110.0 million of outstanding convertible notes. These costs, as well as the substantial management time devoted to address these issues, have materially adversely affected our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We and certain of our current and former officers and directors have been named as parties to a purported shareholder derivative lawsuit relating to our historical stock option granting practices, and may be named in further litigation, including with respect to the restatement of our consolidated financial statements, all of which could require significant management time and attention, result in significant legal expenses or cause our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows to suffer. On December 29, 2008, John R. Campbell, who alleges he is one of our shareholders, caused a purported shareholder’s derivative lawsuit to be filed in the Superior Court of California for the County of San Mateo, naming us as a nominal defendant, and naming 17 of our current and former directors and officers as defendants. The lawsuit seeks to recover unspecified damages purportedly sustained by us in connection with our historical stock option granting practices. Subject to certain limitations, we are obligated to indemnify our current and former officers and directors in connection with the investigation of our historical stock option practices and such lawsuits. During 2009, two of our former officers were dismissed from the lawsuit. The expense of defending this lawsuit may be significant. We cannot predict the outcome of this matter, or any other matter related to our historical stock option granting practices. Our historical stock option granting practices and the restatement of our consolidated financial statements have exposed us to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. We and our current and former officers and directors may, in the future, be subject to additional private and governmental actions relating to our historical stock option granting practices or the restatement of our consolidated financial statements. Subject to certain limitations, we are obligated to indemnify our current and former officers and directors in connection with such lawsuits and governmental investigations and any related litigation. We cannot predict the outcome of these investigations or lawsuits. Regardless of the outcome, these lawsuits, and any other litigation that may be brought against us or our officers and directors, could be time-consuming, result in significant expense to us and divert the attention and resources of our management and other key employees, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. An unfavorable outcome in any of such litigation matters could exceed coverage provided under applicable insurance policies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, we could be required to pay damages or additional penalties or have other remedies imposed against us, our directors or officers, which could harm our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. - 11 - - Risks Related to Our Financial Condition We have incurred substantial indebtedness under agreements that require us to make significant interest and principal payments, and certain of these agreements will require us to negotiate extensions or refinancings in the next twelve months. We did not generate consistent positive cash flows from operations prior to 2008. Failure to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to fund future debt interest and principal payments or failure to negotiate the required extensions or refinancings would materially adversely affect our business. At December 31, 2009, we had $350.3 million of indebtedness outstanding. Among other things, our substantial debt service obligations: • require significant debt interest and principal payments, and limit the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and other general corporate purposes; • limit our ability to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all; • increase our exposure to fluctuating interest rates; • restrict our credit with suppliers, thereby limiting our ability to purchase inventory; and • make us more vulnerable to economic downturns, increased competition and adverse industry conditions, which places us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness. In the first half of 2009 and in 2008 and 2007, we incurred significant losses. During the same periods, we used $5.7 million, $10.9 million and $8.8 million, respectively, of cash to repay principal and pay interest on our outstanding long-term debt. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future, it may be necessary for us to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, obtain additional financing or take other actions. Our primary revolving line of credit in the United States expires on September 20, 2010, but is automatically extended for one year unless we receive written notice of termination 60 days prior to that date. We are currently negotiating an extension of this line of credit, and our ability to negotiate an extended or replacement revolving line of credit could be adversely impacted by the redemption provisions of our convertible subordinated notes discussed below. If we cannot make scheduled interest or principal payments on our debt when due or negotiate an extended or replacement revolving line of credit when necessary, we will be in default of the terms of our debt agreements and, as a result: (1) our lenders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, and certain cross-default provisions under other credit arrangements would be triggered; or (2) our lenders could terminate their commitments to loan us money and foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings. Should these events occur, there would be uncertainty regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. Our audited consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K have been prepared on a going concern basis, which assumes continuity of operations and realization of assets and satisfaction of liabilities in the ordinary course of business. Our ability to continue as a going concern is predicated upon, among other factors, our ability to obtain alternate or additional financings, when and if necessary, and our compliance with the provisions of our credit agreements. If the holders of our convertible subordinated notes exercise their right to require us to redeem all or a portion of the notes at face value in March 2011, our liquidity and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In 2004, we completed an offering of $110.0 million aggregate principal amount of convertible subordinated notes. The related indenture permits the note holders to require us to redeem all or a portion of the notes at face value in March 2011, March 2014 and March 2019. If we are required to redeem all or a substantial portion of the notes in March 2011, we would be required to pay to the note holders $110.0 million, plus accrued and unpaid interest. In order to pay the notes, we could be forced to issue new equity securities that would result in existing shareholders experiencing significant dilution, and these new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of our common stock. If we are unable to either obtain necessary funds to redeem the notes or negotiate the terms of a refinancing with the current note holders, both of which could be difficult in the current economic environment, we would be in default of our obligations under the indenture, which would constitute a cross-default under most of our other debt arrangements. If those defaults should occur and we were unable to negotiate cures: (1) our lenders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, and certain cross-default provisions under other credit arrangements would be triggered; or (2) our lenders could terminate their commitments to loan us money and foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings. Should these events occur, there would be uncertainty regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. - 12 - - The negotiation of extended or replacement revolving lines of credit and a financing with our current note holders, if required, will be subject to conditions and circumstances outside of our control and therefore may not be available to us, in which case our business would be materially adversely affected. When we are required to extend or replace our revolving credit facilities and when and if we are required to negotiate a refinancing with our current note holders, we cannot be certain that such financings will be available for reasons including uncertainties in the global credit markets. At the expiration of any credit facility, the lender is not obligated to renegotiate the terms of the loan and can require full repayment at that time. We have commenced discussion with our lenders in the United States to renew our revolving line of credit. Our ability to negotiate an extended or replacement revolving line will likely be impacted by the redemption provisions of our convertible subordinated notes and our ability to successfully complete a restructuring of those provisions. While in the past we have successfully extended the term of each of our facilities on or before the time they expired, we cannot be certain that, in the future, our lenders will be willing to extend the terms of our existing loans, or our note holders will be willing to negotiate the terms of a refinancing, if required, on terms that are acceptable to us. If we are unsuccessful in these negotiations, our business would be materially adversely affected. Covenants and restrictions in our debt agreements require us to meet certain financial criteria and limit our operating and strategic flexibility. Our debt agreements contain financial covenants and restrictions that limit our ability to engage in certain future transactions. The covenants require us to, among other things, maintain a minimum net worth for certain operating subsidiaries and meet a consolidated fixed-charge coverage ratio. The restrictions limit our ability to, or do not permit us to: • incur additional debt; • create liens; • redeem and prepay certain debt; • pay cash dividends, make other distributions or repurchase stock; • make investments; • engage in asset sales outside the ordinary course of business; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; • engage in certain mergers and acquisitions; and • make certain capital expenditures. Events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these covenants and restrictions. Failure to comply with any of these covenants and restrictions would result in a default under the applicable agreements and under our other debt agreements containing cross-default provisions. A default would permit lenders to accelerate the maturity of the debt under these agreements, foreclose upon our assets securing the debt and terminate any commitments to lend. Under these circumstances, we may not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy our debt and other obligations. In addition, the limitations imposed by these debt agreements on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions may significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing, including, without limitation, the ability to restructure our outstanding convertible bonds. - 13 - - In the past, we were required to obtain waivers in connection with covenant defaults under our debt agreements. In the future, we may need to obtain additional waivers. The failure to obtain the necessary waivers could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity and financial condition. Under our debt agreements, our lenders have the right to declare an event of default if we breach a representation or covenant and do not cure the breach, or obtain necessary waivers or modifications, within the required time periods. If an event of default occurs, our lenders may accelerate the maturity of the debt outstanding under our debt agreements, foreclose upon our assets securing the debt and terminate any commitments to lend. In addition, our ability to incur additional indebtedness would be restricted. Moreover, defaults under our debt agreements could trigger cross-default provisions under other debt arrangements. In 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007, we obtained agreements from our lenders to waive defaults under our debt agreements related to non-compliance with financial and non-financial covenants, and related cross-defaults. If, in the future, we were to breach any covenants under our debt agreements, there can be no assurance that any additional waivers will be received on a timely basis, if at all, or that any waivers obtained will extend for a sufficient period of time to avoid an acceleration event, an event of default or other restrictions on our business. The failure to obtain the necessary waivers or modifications could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity and financial condition. Our primary revolving credit facilities are subject to contractual and borrowing base limitations, which could adversely affect our liquidity and business. The maximum amounts we can borrow under our primary revolving credit facilities are subject to contractual limitations and borrowing base limitations which could significantly and negatively impact our future access to capital required to operate our business. Borrowing base limitations are based upon eligible inventory and accounts receivable. If our inventory or accounts receivable are deemed ineligible, because, for example, they are held outside certain geographical regions or a receivable is older than 90 days, the amount we can borrow under the revolving credit facilities would be reduced. These limitations could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity and business. We are subject to two governmental audits that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. On June 4, 2008, our export subsidiary in the United Kingdom received a notification from the Direction Générale des Finances Publiques that the French tax authorities were proposing to issue a tax deficiency notice against our export subsidiary for failure to pay value-added tax and corporate income tax in France during the period of January 1, 2002 to December 31, 2006. We requested a review of the assessment by the French central tax administration, which has discretionary power to review and modify tax assessments. In a letter dated March 11, 2010, the French central tax administration informed us of its decision to cancel the value-added tax assessment, including interest and penalties, but maintain the corporate income tax assessment, including interest and penalties. As a result, we expect to receive an amended tax assessment reflecting the decision of the French central tax administration setting forth a tax assessment, including interest and penalties, of approximately €1.1 million ($1.6 million at an exchange rate of $1.43/€1.00 million as of December 31, 2009). We are evaluating our position with respect to the corporate income tax assessment and presently intend to avail ourselves of all available defenses. A negative outcome of this matter could have an effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. On September 23, 2009, U.S. Customs and Border Protection (“CBP”) completed a pre-assessment survey of the import reporting processes used by our Latin American subsidiary located in Miami, Florida. Based on its pre-assessment survey, CBP notified us of its intention to conduct a compliance test to quantify any potential loss of revenue. As of the date of this report, such testing has not been commenced. A negative outcome of this matter could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. - 14 - - The goodwill on our balance sheet may not be recoverable and may be impaired in future periods, reducing the carrying value of goodwill as an asset. The value of goodwill on our balance sheet is evaluated, in part, based on the trading price of our common stock. On December 31, 2009 and 2008, the per-share closing price of our common stock was $3.55 and $0.60, respectively. During 2008, we recorded aggregate goodwill impairment charges of $5.9 million. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the carrying value of our goodwill was $21.5 million and $19.2 million, respectively. We rely in large part on credit lines provided by manufacturers to finance our inventory purchases, which lines are subject to change by the manufacturer with little or no notice. Without such credit lines, our ability to purchase and hold inventory could be negatively impacted, which could adversely affect our results of operations and business. To finance our purchases of inventory, we rely in large part on credit lines provided by the manufacturers of the products we sell. These manufacturers are under no obligation to provide these credit lines to us and have complete discretion in determining the size of the credit lines. Our manufacturers could determine to reduce or eliminate these credit lines because of their own financial condition, the global credit environment or their evaluation of our creditworthiness. In the event one or more credit lines is reduced or eliminated, our ability to purchase and hold inventory would be negatively affected, and would likely have an adverse impact on our results of operations and business. Risks Related to Our Business We rely on a small number of suppliers for products that represent a significant portion of our inventory purchases. Any adverse change in our relationships with and of these suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In 2009, 2008 and 2007, products from our top five suppliers accounted for approximately 47% of our sales. These suppliers have a variety of other distributors to choose from, which allows them to make substantial demands of us. In addition, each of these suppliers may terminate its relationship with us on relatively short notice. Any adverse change in our relationships with these suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Many suppliers have consolidated in recent years, resulting in fewer suppliers of the products in the markets we serve. Moreover, suppliers have been consolidating the number of distributors they utilize. Further consolidation in the industry could adversely affect our relationships with our suppliers, which could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, certain suppliers in our industry routinely purchase credit insurance from several major carriers to manage collection risks, and there can be no assurance that credit insurance will continue to be provided by those carriers. A reduction in credit insurance available to our suppliers could result in decreased credit lines from suppliers to us and, therefore, adversely affect our ability to maintain sufficient inventory, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A reduction in the vendor allowances we collect from the manufacturers of the products we sell could adversely affect our results of operations. We receive credits from manufacturers of the products we sell for price protection, product rebates, marketing, promotions and other competitive pricing programs. In some instances, these vendor allowances represent a significant contribution to our pricing decisions and, therefore, our profitability. If manufacturers reduce the amount of vendor allowances available to us, decide to terminate vendor allowance programs, or if we are unable to collect allowances that have been made available to us, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We operate in an industry with significant pricing and margin pressure. Our industry experiences intense competition in pricing. There are several distributors in each of the markets in which we operate that distribute products that are identical or similar to the products we distribute. As a result, we face pricing and margin pressure on a continual basis. Additionally, the mix of products we sell also affects overall margins. If we increase sales of products that are more widely distributed, we may reduce our overall gross profit margin, as those products typically have lower margins due to competition. Freight costs and foreign currency exchange exposure can also have an adverse effect on margins. - 15 - - Our international operations trade in local currencies that subject us to risks related to the fluctuation of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar. Our international revenues represented approximately 61% of our revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007. We believe that international sales will continue to represent a large percentage of our net sales for the foreseeable future. Because our international operations trade in the currencies of the jurisdictions in which they operate, we are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and face exposure to adverse changes in these rates. These exposures may be different over time as business practices change. For each of our foreign subsidiaries, the local currency is its functional currency. When our revenues and expenses are denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, gains and losses on the conversion to U.S. dollars may contribute to fluctuations in our operating results. We have in the past entered, and expect in the future to enter into, hedging arrangements and local currency borrowing facilities to reduce this exposure, but these arrangements will not eliminate the significant effects these currency fluctuations may have on our results of operations. An increase in the value of the dollar could increase the real cost of our products to our customers in those markets outside the United States where we sell in dollars, and a weakened dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of product to the extent that we must purchase product in foreign currencies. The products we sell may not satisfy shifting customer demand or compete successfully with our competitors’ products. Our business is based on the demand for the products we sell, which are primarily used in the manufacture or configuration of electronic products. These end products typically have short life cycles and experience intense price competition. Our success depends upon our ability to identify new product lines that will achieve market acceptance and to establish relationships with suppliers that will develop these products on a timely basis in response to the rapid technological changes in our industry, such as the shift occurring between traditional hard disk drives and solid state drives. If we misinterpret consumer preferences or fail to respond to changes in the marketplace, consumer demand for the products we sell could decrease. Furthermore, our suppliers must commit significant resources each time they develop a product. If they do not invest in the development of new products, then the range of products we offer may be reduced and the demand for the products we offer may decrease. If any of these events occur, our sales could decline significantly. A substantial portion of our sales consist of hard disk drives, which subjects us to the significant fluctuations in the overall hard disk drive market. In 2009, 2008, and 2007, 25%, 26% and 31%, respectively, of our worldwide sales consisted of hard disk drives, and 34%, 37% and 41%, respectively, of our U.S. Distribution sales consisted of hard disk drives. In 2009 and 2008, the disk drive market was adversely affected by the global economic crisis in terms of decreased sales volume and average selling prices, resulting in a year-over-year decrease in our disk drive revenue of 20% both worldwide and in the U.S. Distribution segment. The overall hard disk drive market is subject to significant fluctuations over time and, because a significant portion of our sales consist of disk drives, our revenue and our profitability are subject to those same significant fluctuations. A portion of our profitability is based on rebates we receive from manufacturers. These rebates may be reduced by manufacturers or we may not be able to participate in rebate offers made by manufacturers. Manufacturers have historically offered to their distribution partners, including us, rebates associated with the sale of their products. Recently, because of global economic issues, manufacturers have begun selectively reducing the rebates they offer. In addition, some rebates require us to qualify in order to receive the rebates by taking relatively large orders over a short period of time or paying invoices in significantly less time than what is commercially standard under the circumstances. Due to our financial condition, we may be unwilling or unable to take advantage of these rebate offers from manufacturers, thereby adversely impacting our profitability. Our reliance on legacy information systems that are supported by only a few individuals, as well as a lack of a fully integrated information system, could materially adversely affect our business. Some of our information systems consist of legacy applications that are supported by small internal and external IT teams. As a result, the expertise to maintain and upgrade these systems resides in only a few individuals, which, given the legacy nature of the information systems, could make replacement of these individuals very difficult. These legacy IT systems may also not be compatible with commercially available software. In addition, our information systems are not consistent across our operations, making consolidation of financial information increasingly difficult. A loss of our internal or external IT teams, or the ability to consolidate financial and other information across our operations, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. - 16 - - The value of our inventory may decline, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business model requires that we purchase and maintain adequate levels of inventory in order to meet customer demand on a timely basis. The markets we serve are subject to rapid technological change, new and enhanced products and evolving industry standards. These changes, along with changes in customer demand, may cause our inventory on hand to decline substantially in value. A majority of our suppliers provide some protection from a loss in inventory values through price protection or the option to return products, but only in specified circumstances. However, our suppliers may become unable or unwilling to fulfill these obligations. Supply shortages could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. We are dependent on our suppliers for the products we sell. Historically, our industry has experienced periods of product shortages due to suppliers’ inability to accurately project demand. When these shortages occur, we typically receive an allocation of the available product from our suppliers. We cannot assure you that our suppliers will be able to maintain an adequate supply of products to fulfill all of our customers’ orders on a timely basis. If we are unable to enter into and maintain satisfactory distribution arrangements, it may delay the availability and shipment of products to our customers. This may lead to our customers purchasing products from our competitors, which could adversely affect our business. If we do not control our operating expenses, we may not be able to successfully implement our strategy. The successful implementation of our strategy depends, to a substantial degree, upon our ability to increase sales while, at the same time, reducing or controlling the growth of operating expenses. We have implemented initiatives intended to increase productivity and reduce costs. These initiatives include significant personnel reductions, reduction or elimination of non-personnel expenses, streamlining operations and consolidating business lines. We cannot assure you that our efforts will produce the expected cost savings and other benefits. Moreover, our cost reduction efforts may adversely affect our financial and operational controls and our ability to distribute products in volumes required to meet customer demand. These efforts may also result in disruptions that could adversely affect our ability to service customers. Our ability to operate effectively could be impaired if we fail to attract and retain key personnel and qualified managers. Our success largely depends on our ability to recruit and retain qualified managers and key personnel. If one or more of our key personnel, particularly W. Donald Bell, our President and Chief Executive Officer, resigns or otherwise terminates his or her employment with us, we could experience a loss of sales and supplier relationships and diversion of management resources. Competition for skilled employees in the technology industry is intense, especially in the San Francisco Bay Area, where many of our key employees are located. There can be no assurance that we will be able to recruit and retain such personnel. In order to attract and retain personnel in a competitive marketplace, we have historically provided competitive compensation packages, including equity-based compensation. However, given the recent economic slowdown, we have generally not raised base salaries or bonus opportunities for our employees, including for our named executive officers, for the past several years. As a result, most of our named executive officers are now paid below current market rates for their positions as determined by the independent compensation consultant hired by the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors. The perception that our stock price may not increase over time could also adversely affect our ability to attract or retain key employees. Further, the compensation expense that must be recognized in connection with the grant of stock options and other equity awards may limit the attractiveness of using equity-based compensation as a primary incentive and retention tool in the future. If we are unable to retain our existing key personnel or hire and integrate new management or employees, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. - 17 - - Our international operations subject us to additional risks that may adversely affect our results of operations. As described above, sales from our international operations in recent years have represented a significant percentage of our total sales, and we believe that international sales will continue to represent a significant portion of our business. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks, including: • accounts receivable collection risks, longer payment cycles and unpredictable sales cycles; • costs and difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; • import and export license requirements, tariffs, taxes and other trade barriers; • potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on repatriating earnings and the potential for “double taxation;” • the burden of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws, treaties and technical standards, and changes in those regulations; and • local political and economic instability. Our inability to adequately assess and monitor credit risks of our customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We are subject to the credit risk of our customers. We use various methods to screen potential customers and establish appropriate credit limits; however, these methods cannot eliminate all potential bad credit risks and may not prevent us from approving applications that are fraudulently completed. Moreover, businesses that are good credit risks at the time of application may become bad credit risks over time and we may fail to detect this change. In times of economic recession, the number of our customers who default on payments owed to us tends to increase. If we fail to adequately assess and monitor our credit risks, we could experience longer payment cycles, increased collection costs and higher bad debt expense. Most of our sales are on an open credit basis, with typical payment terms of 30 days in the United States and, because of local customs or conditions, longer periods in some markets outside the United States. We monitor individual customer payment capability in granting such open credit arrangements, seek to limit such open credit to amounts we believe the customers can pay, and maintain reserves we believe are adequate to cover exposure for doubtful accounts. Our exposure to credit risks may increase if our customers are adversely affected by the current global economic downturn, or if there is a continuation or worsening of the downturn. Although we have programs in place that are designed to monitor and mitigate the associated risk, including monitoring of particular risks in certain geographic areas, there can be no assurance that such programs will be effective in reducing our credit risks. In the past, there have been bankruptcies among customers, causing us to incur economic or financial losses. There can be no assurance that additional losses will not be incurred. Future losses, if incurred, could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Additionally, to the degree that the ongoing turmoil in the credit markets makes it more difficult for some customers to obtain financing, those customers’ ability to pay could be adversely impacted, which, in turn, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, our ability to borrow under our primary revolving credit facility and to incur additional indebtedness is subject to limits based on a percentage of our outstanding accounts receivable. A decrease in accounts receivable resulting from an increase in bad debt expense could adversely affect our liquidity. If we are unable to compete effectively in our industry, our operating results may suffer. The markets in which we compete are highly competitive. As a result, we face a variety of significant challenges, including rapid technological advances, price erosion, changing customer preferences and evolving industry standards. Our competitors continue to offer products with improved price and performance characteristics, and we will have to do the same in order to remain competitive. Increased competition could result in significant price competition, reduced revenues, lower profit margins or loss of market share, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot be certain that we will be able to compete successfully in the future. - 18 - - We compete for customer relationships with numerous local, regional, national and international distributors. We also compete for customer relationships with suppliers, including some of our own suppliers and customers. We believe our most significant competition for customers seeking both products and services arises from Arrow, Avnet, SYNNEX and Magirus. We believe our most significant competition for customers seeking only products arises from Ingram Micro, Tech Data, Actebis and Intcomex. We also compete with regionalized distributors in North America, Europe and Latin America who use their localized knowledge and focused product expertise as a competitive advantage. Some of our competitors have superior brand recognition and greater financial resources than we do, which may enable them to increase their market share at our expense. If we are unable to compete successfully, our operating results may suffer. We also compete with other distributors for relationships with suppliers. In recent years, a growing number of suppliers have begun consolidating the number of distributors they use. This consolidation could result in fewer major distributors in our industry. As a result of this consolidation, we may lose relationships with one or more existing suppliers. In addition, suppliers have established, and may continue to establish, cooperative relationships with other suppliers and data storage solution providers. These cooperative relationships may enable suppliers to offer comprehensive solutions that compete with those we offer and the suppliers may have greater resources to devote to sales and marketing efforts. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with existing suppliers and not establish new relationships, it could harm our competitive position and adversely affect our operating results. Our lack of long-term agreements with our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. Most of our sales are made on an order-by-order basis, rather than under long-term sales agreements. We make commitments to our suppliers based on our forecasts of future demand. A variety of conditions, both those specific to our customers and those generally affecting the economy in the markets in which we operate, may cause our customers to cancel, reduce or delay purchase orders that were previously made or anticipated. Generally, customers can cancel, reduce or delay purchase orders and commitments without penalty. We seek to mitigate these risks, in some cases, by entering into sales agreements that prohibit order cancellations and product returns. However, we cannot assure you that these agreements will adequately protect us or that the customer will honor the agreement. A significant number of cancellations, reductions or delays in orders by customers could materially adversely affect our business. Failure to identify acquisition opportunities or to successfully integrate acquired businesses into our operations could reduce our revenues and profits and limit our growth. Historically, a substantial part of our growth has been achieved through the acquisition of complementary businesses. An important component of our strategy is to continue to pursue selective acquisitions to develop and expand our business. In the past several years, our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities has been significantly impacted by the issues relating to the restatement of our consolidated financial statements. Our identification of suitable acquisition candidates involves risks inherent in assessing the value, strengths, weaknesses, overall risks and profitability of acquisition candidates. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates in the future. If we do not make suitable acquisitions, we may find it more difficult to realize our growth objectives. The process of integrating new businesses into our operations poses numerous risks, including: • an inability to integrate acquired operations, accounting systems and processes, information systems and internal control systems; • exposure to unanticipated contingent liabilities of acquired companies; • use of substantial portions of our available cash to consummate an acquisition and/or to operate the acquired business; • diversion of management’s attention; • difficulties and uncertainties in transitioning the business relationships from the acquired entity to us; • the loss of key supplier relationships upon a change of ownership of the acquired business; and • the loss of key employees of acquired companies, which could lead to a loss of customers or supplier relationships. - 19 - - In addition, future acquisitions may be dilutive to our shareholders, cause us to incur additional indebtedness and/or large one-time expenses and/or create intangible assets that could result in significant amortization expense. If we expend significant amounts of cash or incur additional debt, our liquidity may decline and we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and competitive pressures. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully complete any future acquisitions, that we will be able to finance acquisitions or that we will realize any anticipated benefits from any acquisitions that we do complete. Our geographic coverage on the European continent is not as extensive as some of our competitors, which may lead manufacturers to select our competitors over us as their distributor. Our geographic coverage on the European continent is not as extensive as some of our competitors. Manufacturers use a variety of criteria to select their distributors, whether for new products or in the event of distributor consolidation. Our smaller geographic coverage as compared to some of our competitors may cause manufacturers to select our competitors as their distributors rather than us, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. The current economic downturn has adversely affected customer spending patterns, which has affected our business and results of operations and may have further adverse effects on our business. The disruptions in the financial markets and challenging economic conditions have adversely affected the United States and world economy and, in particular, have reduced consumer and business spending. Turmoil in global credit markets and recent turmoil in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world, as well as other disruptions, such as changes in energy costs, are and may continue to put pressure on the global economy. Our operating results in one or more segments may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions particularly germane to that segment or to particular customer markets within that segment. If our customers delay or cancel spending on their IT infrastructure, that decision could result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles and increased price competition. There can be no assurances that government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets will restore spending to previous levels. If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in the United States or other key markets, remain uncertain or persist, spread, or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our geographic reach requires that we have a significant amount of intercompany sales across international borders, which subject us to the risk that the transfer pricing between our subsidiaries will be subject to review by the local taxing authorities. A finding by the local taxing authorities that our transfer pricing is inadequate could subject us to significant liability. We sell a significant amount of product to our local subsidiaries at a cost we believe is fair and reasonable based on the cost of the product plus a reasonable margin. Because these sales are significant, the sales are subject to review by local taxing authorities who may claim that we transferred the goods at a cost that is below that which is fair or reasonable. If we are subject to review, we may incur significant costs participating in and responding to such an investigation. In addition, if it is determined that we did not adequately set the transfer prices between our cross-border subsidiaries, we may be subject to tax assessments that could be significant and adversely impact our results of operations. Some of our operations are located in areas that are subject to natural disasters that could result in a business stoppage and adversely affect our results of operations. Our operations depend on our ability to maintain and protect our facilities, computer systems and personnel. Our corporate headquarters, including some of our business operations, computer systems and personnel, are located in the San Francisco Bay Area, which is in close proximity to known earthquake faults. In addition, a substantial portion of our IT infrastructure is located in Montgomery, Alabama, which is susceptible to tornados and hurricanes. Our backup systems only reside locally for each IT system. An earthquake or other catastrophe, communication failure or similar event, that disables our facilities, requiring transportation of electronic backup media to an unaffected location, or that impairs the transportation of our employees and causes a business interruption, may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. - 20 - - Our business model requires us to hold inventory in a number of different locations, both internationally and domestically, which makes us susceptible to inventory theft. We hold inventory of expensive high technology products in reasonable proximity to our customers around the world. From time to time in the past, we have experienced inventory theft, both in the United States and abroad. While we have safeguards in place to protect against theft, theft continues to occur. In addition, we purchase insurance to cover potential theft; however, the insurance policies require payment of high deductibles and may not cover every situation. If we were to experience a significant loss of inventory due to theft, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We operate in a number of jurisdictions and some of our personnel travel extensively, which may subject our employees to contagious airborne pathogens, including the H1N1 influenza virus or “swine flu.” We operate in a number of jurisdictions, including a number of countries in Latin America. Our personnel also travel extensively by air and other modes of common commercial transportation. If a significant number of our personnel were to become exposed to one or more contagious pathogens, including the H1N1 influenza virus, or if one or more of the countries we operate in experiences a significant quarantine, our ability to sell products to our customers could be negatively affected, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock has been volatile in the past and may continue to be volatile in the future, which could cause the value of an investment in our common stock to decline. From January 1, 2009 through March 25, 2010, the high and low sales prices of our common stock were $5.55 and $0.36, respectively. The market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate substantially in the future in response to a number of factors, including: • fluctuations in our quarterly operating results or the operating results of our competitors; • continued operating losses or the inability to generate positive cash flows; • changes in general conditions in the economy, the financial markets or our industry; • the ability to timely file future consolidated financial statements; • the ability to remediate identified material weaknesses; • announcements of significant acquisitions, strategic alliances or joint ventures by our customers or our competitors; and • other developments affecting us, our industry, suppliers, customers or competitors. The stock market has recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating results. In addition, as a result of its small public float and limited trading volume, our common stock may be more susceptible to volatility arising from any of these factors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. - 21 - - 