Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information included in this report, you should carefully consider the risk factors described below. Risks Related to Our Internal Control Over Financial Reporting and the Restatement of Our Previously-Issued Financial Statements We have identified various material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that resulted in material misstatements in our previously-issued financial statements. These weaknesses could continue to adversely affect our ability to report our results of operations and financial condition accurately and in a timely manner. Our management is responsible for maintaining internal control over financial reporting designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with GAAP. Our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006 and identified various material weaknesses, primarily related to our failure to maintain an effective control environment. As a result of these material weaknesses, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2006. Further, we believe that our internal control over financial reporting remains ineffective as of the date of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. See Item 9A, Controls and Procedures. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting that creates a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. We are in the process of implementing a plan to remediate the identified material weaknesses. Our efforts have been and will continue to be time consuming and expensive. We cannot give any assurance that the measures we are taking to remediate the identified material weaknesses will be effective. We also cannot assure you that other material weaknesses will not arise as a result of our failure to maintain adequate disclosure controls and procedures or circumvention of those controls and procedures. Additionally, even if we succeed in improving our controls and procedures, those controls and procedures may not be 11 Table of Contents adequate to prevent or identify errors or irregularities or ensure our financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The investigations by our Board of Directors into some of our historical accounting practices and the determination of the various other accounting adjustments, which resulted in the restatement of our previously-issued financial statements, have been time consuming and expensive and have had a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As described in the Explanatory Note to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have restated certain of our previously-issued financial statements. We have devoted substantial internal and external resources to the completion of the restatement. As a result of these efforts, as of November 30, 2008, we have incurred approximately $69.8 million in fees and expenses, primarily for additional audit, financial, legal consulting and related costs, and $11.1 million in fees related to obtaining covenant waivers, including an 8.5% special interest payment of a $9.4 million under our 3.75% Notes. We expect to continue to incur significant additional fees and expenses until we are in compliance with our SEC reporting requirements and have remediated the existing material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. These costs, as well as the substantial management time devoted to address these issues, have materially adversely affected our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are the subject of an ongoing SEC non-public fact-finding inquiry relating to our historical accounting practices. This inquiry could result in penalties that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Beginning in February 2008, independent counsel to the stock option and reserves and accruals special committees of our Board of Directors, accompanied by Company counsel, self-reported to the SEC as to the findings of independent investigations conducted by these committees. The SEC commenced a non-public fact-finding inquiry into our historical accounting practices. We have cooperated with the SEC in connection with this inquiry and will continue to do so. We cannot predict the outcome of this inquiry or whether we will face additional government inquiries, investigations or other actions related to our historical accounting practices. The filing of our restated financial statements will not resolve the SEC inquiry. The SEC could require that we take other actions not presently contemplated. An adverse ruling in any SEC enforcement action or other regulatory proceeding could require us to pay fines, penalties or have other remedies imposed, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We believe the delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Global Market has had an adverse effect on the liquidity and market price of our common stock. We cannot assure you when we will be able to relist our common stock on a national securities exchange. In March 2008, our common stock was delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market, or Nasdaq, as a result of our failure to comply with SEC reporting obligations. Our common stock is currently quoted on the Pink Sheets, which is an over-the-counter securities market. We believe the delisting of our common stock has materially adversely affected us by limiting: the liquidity of our common stock; the market price of our common stock; the number of institutional and other investors that will consider investing in our common stock; the availability of information concerning the trading prices and volume of our common stock; the number of broker-dealers willing to execute trades in shares of our common stock; and our ability to obtain equity financing. Prior to the relisting of our common stock on Nasdaq or another national securities exchange, you may not be able to sell shares of our common stock without a considerable delay or significant effect on the sale price. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we will be able to relist our common stock on Nasdaq or another national securities exchange once we are in compliance with SEC reporting obligations. We will still be required to comply with all other applicable listing standards. Since October 27, 2008, our common stock has consistently traded below $1.00 per share. A low per share stock price may have an impact on our ability to relist our common stock on a national securities exchange. 12 Table of Contents We may be the subject of litigation relating to the restatement of our consolidated financial statements, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Although there is no litigation pending against us related to the restatement of our financial statements, we may become the subject of such a lawsuit. For example, a number of companies, and in some cases, their directors and officers, have been the subject of securities class action lawsuits relating to restatements of their financial statements resulting from historical stock-based compensation practices. We cannot predict the likelihood that proceedings will be instituted against us. In the event that there is an adverse ruling in any legal proceeding, we may be required to make payments to third parties that could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Furthermore, regardless of the merits of any claim, legal proceedings may result in substantial legal expense and could also result in the diversion of time and attention by our management. Our insurance coverage may not fully cover any costs and expenses related to this potential litigation, in part because we have a significant deductible on certain aspects of the coverage. In addition, subject to certain limitations, we would be obligated to indemnify our current and former directors, officers, and employees. We currently hold insurance policies for the benefit of our directors and officers, although our insurance coverage may not be sufficient in some or all of these matters. Furthermore, the insurers may seek to deny or limit coverage in some or all of these matters, in which case we may have to self-fund all or a substantial portion of our indemnification obligations. Our failure to comply with SEC reporting obligations may have an adverse effect on our business. As a result of our failure to comply with SEC reporting obligations, we are subject to a number of restrictions regarding the registration of our common stock under federal securities laws. Until such time as we have regained compliance with our SEC reporting obligations and meet certain other conditions, we will be unable to use shorter and less costly filings, such as Registration Statements on Form S-3 and Form S-8. Being required to use the Registration Statement Form S-1 is likely to be more costly and time-consuming. These restrictions may reduce our access to capital markets, which may adversely affect our business. Risks Related to Our Business We rely on a small number of suppliers for products that represent a significant portion of our inventory purchases. Any change in our relationships with these suppliers could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In 2006, five suppliers accounted for approximately 39% of our inventory purchases. In 2005 and 2004, five suppliers accounted for approximately 38% of our inventory purchases. In 2007 and 2008, a small number of suppliers also represented a significant percentage of our inventory purchases. These suppliers have a variety of other distributors to choose from, which allows them to make substantial demands on us. In addition, each of these suppliers may terminate its relationship with us on relatively short notice. A change in our relationships with these suppliers could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Many suppliers have consolidated in recent years, resulting in fewer suppliers of the products in the markets we serve. Moreover, suppliers have been consolidating the number of distributors they utilize. Further consolidation in the industry could adversely affect our relationships with our suppliers, which could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, certain suppliers in our industry routinely purchase credit insurance from several major carriers to manage collection risks, and there can be no assurance that credit insurance will continue to be provided by those carriers. A reduction in available credit insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. A reduction in the vendor allowances we collect from the manufacturers of the products we sell could adversely affect our results of operations. We receive credits from manufacturers of the products we sell for price protection, product rebates, marketing, promotions, infrastructure reimbursement and competitive pricing programs. In some instances, these vendor 13 Table of Contents allowances represent a significant portion of our profit. If manufacturers reduce the amount of vendor allowances available to us, decide to terminate vendor allowance programs or if we are unable to collect allowances which have been made available to us, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We operate in an industry with significant pricing and margin pressure. Our industry experiences intense price competition. There are several distributors in each of the markets in which we operate that distribute products identical or similar to the products we distribute. As a result, we face pricing and margin pressure on a continual basis. Additionally, the mix of products we sell also affects overall margins. If we increase sales from products that are more widely distributed we may reduce our overall gross profit margin, as those products typically have lower margins. Freight costs and foreign currency exchange exposure can also have an adverse effect on margins. Our international operations trade in local currencies which subject us to risks related to the fluctuation of foreign currencies against the US dollar. Our international revenues represented 60%, 57% and 59% of our revenues in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. In 2007 and 2008, our international revenues continued to represent a significant percentage of our revenues. We believe that international sales will represent a large percentage of our net sales for the foreseeable future. Because our international operations trade in the currencies of the jurisdictions in which they operate, we are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and face exposure to adverse movements in these rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve. For each of our foreign subsidiaries, the local currency is the functional currency. To the extent our revenues and expenses are denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, gains and losses on the conversion to U.S. dollars may contribute to fluctuations in our operating results. We have in the past, and expect in the future, to enter into hedging arrangements and enter into local currency borrowing facilities to reduce this exposure, but these arrangements will not eliminate significant effects of these fluctuations on our results of operations. An increase in the value of the dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the United States where we sell in dollars, and a weakened dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials to the extent that we must purchase components in foreign currencies. The products we sell may not satisfy shifting customer demand or compete successfully with our competitors’ products. Our business is based on the demand for the products we sell, which are primarily used in the manufacture or configuration of electronic products. These end products typically have short life cycles and experience intense price competition. Our success depends upon our ability to identify new product lines that will achieve market acceptance and to establish relationships with suppliers that will develop these products on a timely basis in response to the rapid technological changes in our industry. If we misinterpret consumer preferences or fail to respond to changes in the marketplace, consumer demand for the products we sell could decrease. Furthermore, our suppliers must commit significant resources each time they develop a product. If they do not invest in the development of new products, then the range of products we offer may be reduced and demand for the products we offer may decline. If any of these events occur, our sales could decline. The value of our inventory may decline, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business model requires we purchase and maintain adequate levels of inventory in order to meet customer needs on a timely basis. The markets we serve are subject to rapid technological change, new and enhanced products and evolving industry standards. These changes, along with changes in customer demand, may cause inventory on hand to decline substantially in value. A majority of our suppliers provide protection from a loss in inventory values through price protection or the option to return products, in some circumstances. However, our suppliers may become unable or unwilling to fulfill these obligations. 14 Table of Contents Supply shortages could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. We are dependent on our suppliers for the products we sell. Historically, our industry has experienced periods of product shortages due to suppliers’ inability to accurately project demand. When these shortages occur, we typically receive an allocation of the available product from our suppliers. We cannot assure you that our suppliers will be able to maintain an adequate supply of products to fulfill all of our customers’ orders on a timely basis. If we are unable to enter into and maintain satisfactory distribution arrangements, we may be late in shipping products. This may lead to our customers purchasing products from our competitors, which could adversely affect our business. If we do not control our operating expenses, we may not be able to successfully implement our strategy. The successful implementation of our strategy depends, to a substantial degree, on our ability to increase sales while at the same time reducing or controlling operating expenses. We are currently in the process of implementing initiatives intended to increase productivity and reduce costs. These initiatives include significant personnel reductions, reduction or elimination of non-personnel expenses, streamlining operations and consolidating business lines. We cannot assure you that our efforts will produce the expected cost savings and other benefits. Moreover, our cost reduction efforts may adversely affect the effectiveness of our financial and operational controls and our ability to distribute products in volumes required to meet customer demand. These efforts may also result in disruptions that could adversely affect our ability to service customers. Our ability to operate effectively could be impaired if we fail to attract and retain key personnel and qualified managers. Our success largely depends on our ability to recruit and retain qualified managers and key personnel. If one or more of our key personnel, particularly W. Donald Bell, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, resigns or otherwise terminates his or her employment with us, we could experience a loss of sales and supplier relationships and diversion of management resources. Competition for skilled employees in the technology industry is intense, especially in the San Francisco Bay Area, where many of our key employees are located. There can be no assurance that we will be able to recruit and retain such personnel. In order to attract and retain personnel in a competitive marketplace, we have historically provided a competitive compensation package, including equity-based compensation. The decline in our stock price, or the expectation that our stock price may not increase over time, may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain key employees. In addition, our incentive stock plan expired in May 2008. We will not be able to hold a shareholder meeting to adopt a new equity incentive plan until we are in compliance with SEC reporting obligations. As a result, we are currently unable to grant additional stock options or other equity awards to help attract and retain officers and other key employees. Further, the compensation expense that must be recognized in connection with the grant of stock options and other equity awards may limit the attractiveness of using equity-based compensation as a primary incentive and retention tool in the future. If we are unable to retain our existing key personnel or hire and integrate new management or employees, our business, financial condition and results of operation could be adversely affected. Our international operations subject us to additional risks which may adversely affect our results of operations. In 2006, 2005 and 2004, sales from our international operations represented 60%, 57% and 59% of our net sales, respectively. In 2007 and 2008, sales from our international operations continued to represent a significant percentage of our net sales. We believe that international sales will continue to represent a significant portion of our business. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks, including: • accounts receivable collection risks, longer payment cycles and unpredictable sales cycles; • costs and difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; • import and export license requirements, tariffs, taxes, and other trade barriers; 15 Table of Contents • potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on repatriating earnings and the potential for “double taxation;” • the burden of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws, treaties, and technical standards, and changes in those regulations; and • local political and economic instability. We are subject to a proposed tax assessment in France, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. On June 4, 2008, our export subsidiary in the United Kingdom received a notification that the French tax authorities were proposing to issue a tax deficiency notice against our export subsidiary for the failure to pay value added tax and corporate income tax in France from 2002 to 2006, in an amount, including penalties, of approximately €25.4 million ($34.7 million at an exchange rate of €1.00/$1.37 as of December 15, 2008). We intend to defend this matter vigorously and avail ourselves of all available defenses. However, if we are required to pay this assessment in full, or a significant portion of it, the resulting payment could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We have not accrued any amount related to this contingent liability. Our inability to adequately assess and monitor credit risks of our customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We are subject to the credit risk of our customers. We use various methods to screen potential customers and establish appropriate credit limits, but these methods cannot eliminate all potential bad credit risks and may not prevent us from approving applications that are fraudulently completed. Moreover, businesses that are good credit risks at the time of application may become bad credit risks over time and we may fail to detect this change. In times of economic recession, the number of our customers who default on payments owed to us tends to increase. If we fail to adequately assess and monitor our credit risks, we could experience longer payment cycles, increased collection costs and higher bad debt expense. Most of our sales are on an open credit basis, with typical payment terms of 30 days in the United States and, because of local customs or conditions, longer in some markets outside the United States. We monitor individual customer payment capability in granting such open credit arrangements, seek to limit such open credit to amounts we believe the customers can pay, and maintain reserves we believe are adequate to cover exposure for doubtful accounts. Our exposure to credit risks may increase if our customers are adversely affected by the current global economic downturn, or if there is a continuation or worsening of the downturn. Although we have programs in place that are designed to monitor and mitigate the associated risk, including monitoring of particular risks in certain geographic areas, there can be no assurance that such programs will be effective in reducing our credit risks. In the past, there have been bankruptcies among customers, causing us to incur economic or financial losses. There can be no assurance that additional losses will not be incurred. Future losses, if incurred, could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Additionally, to the degree that the ongoing turmoil in the credit markets makes it more difficult for some customers to obtain financing, those customers’ ability to pay could be adversely impacted, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, our ability to borrow under our primary revolving credit facility and to incur additional indebtedness is subject to limits based on a percentage of our outstanding accounts receivable. A decrease in accounts receivable resulting from an increase in bad debt expense could adversely affect our liquidity. If we are unable to effectively compete in our industry, our operating results may suffer. The markets in which we compete are highly competitive. As a result, we face a variety of significant challenges, including rapid technological advances, price erosion, changing customer preferences and evolving 16 Table of Contents industry standards. Our competitors continue to offer products with improved price and performance characteristics, and we will have to do the same in order to remain competitive. Increased competition could result in significant price competition, reduced revenues, lower profit margins or loss of market share, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot be certain that we will be able to compete successfully in the future. We compete for customer relationships with numerous local, regional, national and international distributors. We also compete for customer relationships with suppliers, including some of our own suppliers and customers. We believe our most significant competition for customers seeking both products and services arises from Arrow, Avnet and Magirus. We believe our most significant competition for customers seeking only products arises from Ingram Micro, Tech Data, SYNNEX and Intcomex. We also compete with regionalized distributors in North America, Europe and Latin America who use their localized knowledge and expertise as a competitive advantage. Some of our competitors have superior brand recognition and greater financial resources than we do, which may enable them to increase their market share at our expense. If we are unable to successfully compete, our operating results may suffer. We also compete with other distributors for relationships with suppliers. In recent years, a growing number of suppliers have begun consolidating the number of distributors they use. This consolidation could result in fewer major distributors in our industry. As a result of this consolidation, we may lose relationships with certain existing suppliers. In addition, suppliers have established, and may continue to establish, cooperative relationships with other suppliers and data storage solution providers. These cooperative relationships may enable suppliers to offer comprehensive solutions that compete with those we offer and the suppliers may have greater resources to devote to sales and marketing efforts. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with existing suppliers and not establish new relationships, it could harm our competitive position and adversely affect our operating results. Our lack of long-term agreements with our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. Most of our sales are made on an order-by-order basis, rather than under long-term sales agreements. We make commitments to our suppliers based on our forecasts of future demand. A variety of conditions, both specific to our customers, and those generally affecting the economy in the markets in which we operate, may cause our customers to cancel, reduce or delay purchase orders that were previously made or anticipated. Generally, customers can cancel, reduce or delay purchase orders and commitments without penalty. We seek to mitigate these risks, in some cases, by entering into sales agreements that prohibit order cancellations and product returns. However, we cannot assure you that these agreements will adequately protect us or that the customer will honor the agreement. A significant number of cancellations, reductions or delays in orders by customers could materially adversely affect our business. Failure to identify acquisition opportunities or to successfully integrate acquired businesses into our operations could reduce our revenues and profits, and limit our growth. Historically, a substantial part of our growth has been achieved through the acquisition of complementary businesses. An important component of our strategy is to continue to pursue selective acquisitions to continue to develop and expand our business. The issues relating to the restatement of our financial statements, the inability to timely file periodic reports with the SEC and the delisting of our common stock has adversely affected our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities, in part, because of our inability to issue additional registered shares. Our identification of suitable acquisition candidates involves risks inherent in assessing the value, strengths, weaknesses, overall risks and profitability of acquisition candidates. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates in the future. If we do not make suitable acquisitions, we may find it more difficult to realize our growth objectives. The process of integrating new businesses into our operations poses numerous risks, including: • an inability to integrate acquired operations, accounting systems and processes, information systems and internal control systems; 17 Table of Contents • exposure to unanticipated contingent liabilities of acquired companies; • use of substantial portions of our available cash to consummate an acquisition and/or to operate the acquired business; • diversion of management’s attention; • difficulties and uncertainties in transitioning the business relationships from the acquired entity to us; • the loss of key supplier relationships upon a change of ownership of the acquired business; and • the loss of key employees of acquired companies, which could lead to a loss of customers or supplier relationships. In addition, future acquisitions may be dilutive to our shareholders, cause us to incur additional indebtedness and large one-time expenses or create intangible assets that could result in significant amortization expense. If we expend significant amounts of cash or incur additional debt, our liquidity may decline and we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and competitive pressures. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully complete any future acquisitions, that we will be able to finance acquisitions or that we will realize any anticipated benefits from any acquisitions that we do complete. Our reliance on legacy information systems that are supported by a few individuals as well as a lack of a fully-integrated information system could materially adversely affect our business. Some of our information systems consist of legacy applications that are supported by small internal and external IT teams. As a result, the expertise to maintain and upgrade these systems resides in a few individuals which, given the legacy nature of the information systems, could make replacement of these individuals very difficult. These legacy information systems may also not be compatible with commercially-available software. In addition, our information systems are not consistent across our operations, making consolidation of financial information increasingly difficult. A loss of our internal or external IT teams or the ability to consolidate financial and other information across our operations, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we cannot effectively manage our growth, our business may suffer. Our growth continues to place a significant strain on our managerial, financial, operational, technical, sales, marketing and administrative resources. We intend to continue to pursue the growth of our business by increasing our sales efforts and completing selective acquisitions. To effectively manage our growth, we must, among other things: • engage, train, and manage a larger sales and marketing force, and additional service personnel; • expand the geographic coverage of our sales force; • expand our information systems; • identify and successfully integrate acquired businesses into our operations; • successfully develop and deploy competitive e-commerce and web-based technologies; and • enforce appropriate financial and administrative control procedures. Any failure to effectively manage our growth may adversely affect our business. The current economic environment has adversely affected business spending patterns, which may have an adverse effect on our business. The disruptions in the financial markets and challenging economic conditions have adversely affected the United States and world economy, and in particular, reduced consumer spending and reduced spending by businesses. Turmoil in global credit markets, and recent turmoil in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world and other disruptions, such as changes in energy costs are and may continue to put pressure on global 18 Table of Contents economic conditions. Our operating results in one or more segments may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions particularly germane to that segment or to particular customer markets within that segment. The challenges we have seen in the United States have expanded to Europe. If our customers delay or cancel spending on their IT infrastructure, that decision could result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles and increased price competition. There can be no assurances that government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets will restore spending to previous levels. If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in the United States or other key markets, remain uncertain or persist, spread, or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Some of our operations are located in areas that are subject to natural disasters, which could result in a business stoppage and adversely affect our results of operations. Our operations depend on our ability to maintain and protect our facilities, computer systems and personnel. Our corporate headquarters, including some of our business operations, computer systems and personnel, are located in the San Francisco Bay Area, which is in close proximity to known earthquake faults. In addition, a substantial portion of our information technology infrastructure is located in Montgomery, Alabama, which is susceptible to tornados and hurricanes. An earthquake or other catastrophe, communication failure or similar event, which disables our facilities or impairs the transportation of our employees and causes a business interruption, may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business model requires us to hold inventory in a number of different locations, both internationally and domestically, and is subject to inventory theft. We hold inventory of expensive high technology products in reasonable proximity to our customers around the world. From time-to-time in the past, we have experienced inventory theft, both in the United States and abroad. While we have safeguards in place to protect against theft, theft continues to occur. In addition, we purchase insurance to cover potential theft, however, the insurance policies require payment of high deductibles and may not cover every situation. If we were to experience a significant loss of inventory due to theft, it may have an adverse effect on our results of financial condition. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition Our consolidated financial statements are presented on a going concern basis. Given our existing financial condition and current conditions in the global credit markets, if we are unable to comply with one or more of the financial covenants in our credits agreements, there would likely be uncertainties regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. Our audited consolidated financial statements included in this report have been prepared on a going concern basis, which assumes continuity of operations and realization of assets and satisfaction of liabilities in the ordinary course of business. Our ability to continue as a going concern is predicated upon, among other things, our compliance with the provisions of our existing credit agreements and, when needed, our ability to renew such agreements or obtain alternative or additional financing. We currently have a substantial amount of indebtedness outstanding. The agreements associated with our indebtedness include a number of financial covenants. Although we have not completed our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2008, we presently expect that we will not satisfy certain of the financial covenants in our credit agreements for the quarter ending December 31, 2008. If we do not satisfy the covenants in our credit agreements and are unable to obtain waivers or amendments related to these covenants, the lenders could declare a default under our credit agreements. Any default under our credit agreements will allow the lenders under these credit agreements the option to demand repayment of the indebtedness outstanding under the applicable credit agreements, and would allow certain other lenders to exercise their rights and remedies under cross default provisions. If these lenders were to exercise their rights to accelerate the indebtedness outstanding, there can be no assurance that we would be able to refinance or otherwise repay any amounts that may become accelerated under the agreements. The acceleration of a significant portion of our indebtedness would have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity and financial condition. 19 Table of Contents If we do not satisfy the foregoing covenants, and the lenders do not grant waivers and elect to exercise their remedies upon default, we would be required to refinance or otherwise repay this outstanding indebtedness. Given our existing financial condition and current conditions in the global credit markets, should these events occur, there would likely be uncertainties regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. Our audited consolidated financial statements included in this report do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of these uncertainties. Restrictions in our debt agreements limit our operating and strategic flexibility. Our debt agreements contain restrictions, covenants and events of default that, among other things, require us to satisfy financial covenant tests, including maintaining a minimum net worth and meeting a fixed charge coverage ratio. Among other things, these restrictions, covenants and events of default limit our ability to, or do not permit us to: • incur additional debt; • create liens; • redeem and prepay certain debt; • pay cash dividends, make other distributions or repurchase stock; • make investments; • engage in asset sales outside the ordinary course of business; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; • engage in certain mergers and acquisitions; and • make certain capital expenditures. Events beyond our control could also affect our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants, including the required financial covenant tests. Failure to comply with any of these debt covenants would result in a default under the applicable agreements and under our other debt agreements containing cross-default provisions. A default would permit lenders to accelerate the maturity of the debt under these agreements, foreclose upon our assets securing the debt and terminate any commitments to lend. Under these circumstances, we may not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy our debt and other obligations. In addition, the limitations imposed by these debt agreements on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions may significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing. Our substantial leverage and related debt service obligations could adversely affect our cash flows and business. In addition, we have not consistently generated historical net income or positive cash flows from operations. Our failure to generate positive cash flows from operations in the future would materially adversely affect our ability to meet our debt service obligations. Among other things, our substantial indebtedness and debt service obligations: • limit the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and other general corporate purposes; • limit our ability to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all; • increase our exposure to fluctuating interest rates; • restrict our credit with suppliers, limiting our ability to purchase inventory; and 20 Table of Contents • make us more vulnerable to economic downturns, increased competition and adverse industry conditions, which places us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness. In 2006 and 2005, we incurred significant losses and generated negative cash flows from operations. During the same periods, we used $8.8 million and $15.0 million, respectively, in cash to repay principal and interest on our outstanding debt. At December 15, 2008, our outstanding indebtedness was approximately $453 million. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future, it may be necessary for us to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, obtain additional financing or take other actions. As a result of our failure to comply with SEC reporting obligations, we were required to obtain waivers in connection with the delivery of financial statements and related matters under our debt agreements. We may need to obtain additional waivers in the future. The failure to obtain the necessary waivers could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity and financial condition. We obtained waivers from our lenders to waive potential breaches under our debt agreements and establish extended deadlines for the delivery of our financial statements. The current waivers under our U.S.-based debt agreements expire on March 31, 2009 with respect to our 2007 fiscal year financial statements and June 30, 2009 with respect to our 2008 fiscal year financial statements. Any delays in issuing financial statements for periods ending after December 31, 2006 may require us to seek additional waivers. In addition, under our loan agreements we must comply with a variety of other covenants. Under our debt agreements, our lenders have the right to notify us if they believe we have breached a representation or covenant and may declare an event of default. If we do not cure the events of default or obtain necessary waivers within the required time periods, our lenders would be permitted to accelerate the maturity of the debt under these agreements, foreclose upon our assets securing the debt and terminate any commitments to lend. In addition, our ability to incur additional indebtedness would be restricted. Moreover, material defaults under our debt agreements could trigger cross-default provisions under other debt arrangements. There can be no assurance that any additional waivers will be received on a timely basis, if at all, or that any waivers obtained, including the waivers we have already obtained, will extend for a sufficient period of time to avoid an acceleration event, an event of default or other restrictions on our business. The failure to obtain the necessary waivers could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity and financial condition. We may need additional funding to support our operations following the completion of our restatement of consolidated financial statements; sufficient funding is subject to conditions and may not be available to us, and the unavailability of funding could adversely affect our business. The Company relies heavily on debt financing for its operations. The debt financing arrangements are for terms that vary. Our primary revolving line of credit in the United States expires in 2010 and our primary line of credit in Europe expires in 2011. At the expiration of any credit facility, the lender is not obligated to renegotiate the terms of the loan and can require full repayment at that time. In the past we have successfully extended the term of each of our facilities on or before the time they expired. However, we cannot be assured that in the future our lenders will be willing to extend the terms of our existing loans, or extend the terms of those loans on terms which are acceptable to us. If we are unable to secure additional financing at the expiration of any our debt facilities, our business would be adversely impacted. If the global credit market crisis continues, it may impact our ability to obtain debt financing for our operations and the unavailability of funding could adversely affect our business. As a result of current economic uncertainties, including with respect to global capital and credit markets and overall economic growth, we might find it more difficult or expensive to secure additional capital or credit to pursue actions we would consider beneficial us or our stockholders, such as acquisitions or capital investments. Our ability to continue operations could also be dependent on our ability to obtain alternative debt and/or equity financing. The inability to obtain such financing would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. 21 Table of Contents Our primary revolving credit facilities are subject to borrowing base limitations, which could adversely affect our liquidity and business. The maximum amounts we can borrow under our primary revolving credit facilities are subject to borrowing base limitations, which is calculated as a percentage of our eligible inventory and accounts receivable. If our inventory or accounts receivable are deemed ineligible, because, for example, they are held outside certain geographical limitations or are a receivable older than 90 days, the amount we can borrow under the revolving credit facilities could be reduced. This reduction could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity and business. The goodwill on our balance sheet may not be recoverable and may be impaired in future periods, reducing the carrying value of goodwill as an asset. The value of goodwill on our balance sheet is reevaluated, in part, based on the trading price of our common stock. On December 29, 2006, the last trading day of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our stock closed at $7.05. Since that time, through November 30, 2008, our stock has traded as low as $0.36 per share. Although we have not completed a goodwill impairment analysis for periods since December 31, 2006, goodwill is likely to be further impaired in 2007 and/or 2008. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile in the future, which could cause the value of an investment in our common stock to decline. From January 1, 2008 through November 30, 2008, the high and low sales price of our common stock was $6.60 and $0.36. The market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate substantially in the future in response to a number of factors, including: • potential further restatements of our financial statements; • fluctuations in our quarterly operating results or the operating results of our competitors; • continued operating losses or the inability to generate positive cash flows; • changes in general conditions in the economy, the financial markets or our industry; • the ability to timely file future financial statements; • the ability to remediate identified material weaknesses; • announcements of significant acquisitions, strategic alliances or joint ventures by our customers or our competitors; and • other developments affecting us, our industry, suppliers, customers or competitors. The stock market has recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating results. In addition, as a result of its small public float and limited trading volume, our common stock may be more susceptible to volatility arising from any of these factors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 