Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the risk factors described below. Risks Related to Our Internal Control Over Financial Reporting and the Restatement of Our Previously Issued Financial Statements We have identified various material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that resulted in material misstatements in our consolidated financial statements that were issued prior to December 31, 2006. These weaknesses could continue to adversely affect our ability to report our results of operations and financial condition accurately and in a timely manner. 10 Table of Contents Our management is responsible for maintaining internal control over financial reporting designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated financial statements for external purposes in accordance with GAAP. Our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008 and identified various material weaknesses, primarily related to our failure to maintain an effective control environment. As a result of these material weaknesses, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2008. Further, we believe that our internal control over financial reporting remains ineffective as of the date of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. See Item 9A — Controls and Procedures. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting that creates a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. We are in the process of implementing a plan to remediate the identified material weaknesses. Our efforts have been and will continue to be time-consuming and expensive. We cannot give any assurance that the measures we are taking to remediate the identified material weaknesses will be effective. We also cannot assure you that other material weaknesses will not arise as a result of our failure to maintain adequate disclosure controls and procedures or that circumvention of those controls and procedures will not occur. Additionally, even if we succeed in improving our controls and procedures, those controls and procedures may not be adequate to prevent or identify errors or irregularities or ensure that our financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The investigations by the Board of Directors (the “Board”) into some of our historical accounting practices and the determination of various other accounting adjustments, which resulted in the restatement of our previously issued consolidated financial statements, have been time-consuming and expensive and have had a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. During 2007 and 2008, we devoted substantial internal and external resources to the completion of a restatement of certain of our historical consolidated financial statements. During 2009, we have devoted substantial additional resources to preparing the audited consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As a result of these efforts, as of May 31, 2009, we have incurred in excess of $90.0 million in fees and expenses, primarily for additional accounting, tax, legal and related consulting costs, and $11.1 million in fees related to obtaining covenant waivers, including an 8.5% special interest payment of a $9.4 million under our $110.0 million of outstanding convertible notes. We expect to continue to incur significant additional fees and expenses until we are in compliance with our SEC reporting requirements and have remediated the existing material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. These costs, as well as the substantial management time devoted to address these issues, have materially adversely affected our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are the subject of an ongoing SEC non-public fact-finding inquiry relating to our historical accounting practices. This inquiry could result in penalties and/or other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In February 2008, independent counsel to the Board, accompanied by counsel for the Company, self-reported to the SEC the findings of the independent investigations conducted by special committees of the Board. As a result, the SEC commenced a non-public fact-finding inquiry into our historical accounting practices. We have cooperated with the SEC in connection with this inquiry and will continue to do so. We cannot predict the outcome of this inquiry or whether we will face additional government inquiries, investigations or other actions related to our historical accounting practices. An adverse ruling in any SEC enforcement action or other regulatory proceeding could impose upon us fines, penalties or other remedies, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We believe the delisting of our common stock from The NASDAQ Global Market has had an adverse effect on the liquidity and market price of our common stock. We cannot assure you as to when we will be able to relist our common stock on a national securities exchange. In March 2008, our common stock was delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market, or Nasdaq, as a result of our failure to comply with SEC reporting obligations. Our common stock is currently quoted on the Pink OTC Market, or Pink Sheets, which is an over-the-counter securities market. We believe the delisting of our common stock has materially 11 Table of Contents adversely affected: (1) the liquidity of our common stock, (2) the market price of our common stock, (3) the number of institutional and other investors that will consider investing in our common stock, (4) the availability of information concerning the trading prices and volume of our common stock, (5) the number of broker-dealers willing to execute trades in shares of our common stock and (6) our ability to obtain equity financing. Unless and until we are able to successfully relist our common stock on Nasdaq or another national securities exchange, you may not be able to sell shares of our common stock without a considerable delay or significant adverse effect on the sale price. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we will be able to relist our common stock on Nasdaq or another national securities exchange once we are in compliance with SEC reporting obligations. We will still be required to comply with all other applicable listing standards. Recently, our common stock has consistently traded below $1.00 per share. A low per-share stock price may have an impact on our ability to relist our common stock on a national securities exchange. We and certain of our current and former officers and directors have been named as parties to a purported shareholder derivative lawsuit relating to our historical stock option granting practices, and may be named in further litigation, including with respect to the restatement of our consolidated financial statements, all of which could require significant management time and attention, result in significant legal expenses or cause our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows to suffer. On December 29, 2008, John R. Campbell, who alleges he is one of our shareholders, caused a purported shareholder’s derivative lawsuit to be filed in the Superior Court of California for the County of San Mateo, naming us as a nominal defendant, and naming 17 of our current and former directors and officers as defendants. The lawsuit seeks to recover damages purportedly sustained by us in connection with our historical stock option granting practices. We cannot predict the outcome of this matter, or any other matter related to our historical stock option granting practices. Our historical stock option granting practices and the restatement of our consolidated financial statements have exposed us to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. We and our current and former officers and directors may, in the future, be subject to additional private and governmental actions relating to our historical stock option granting practices or the restatement of our consolidated financial statements. Subject to certain limitations, we are obligated to indemnify our current and former officers and directors in connection with such lawsuits and governmental investigations and any related litigation. We cannot predict the outcome of these investigations or lawsuits. Regardless of the outcome, these lawsuits, and any other litigation that may be brought against us or our officers and directors, could be time-consuming, result in significant expense and divert the attention and resources of our management and other key employees, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. An unfavorable outcome in any of such litigation matters could exceed coverage provided under applicable insurance policies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, we could be required to pay damages or additional penalties or have other remedies imposed against us, our directors or officers, which could harm our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our failure to comply with SEC reporting obligations may have an adverse effect on our business. As a result of our failure to comply with SEC reporting obligations, we are subject to a number of restrictions regarding the registration of our common stock under federal securities laws. Until such time as we have regained compliance with our SEC reporting obligations and meet certain other conditions, we will be unable to use shorter and less costly filings, such as Registration Statements on Forms S-3 and S-8. The requirement of using a Registration Statement on Form S-1 is likely to be more costly and time-consuming. These restrictions may reduce our access to capital markets, which may adversely affect our business. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition Our consolidated financial statements are presented on a going concern basis. Given our existing financial condition and current conditions in the global credit markets, if we are unable to comply with one or more of the covenants in our credit agreements, there would likely be uncertainties regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. Our audited consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K have been prepared on a going concern basis, which assumes continuity of operations and realization of assets and satisfaction of liabilities in the ordinary course of business. Our ability to continue as a going concern is predicated upon, among other factors, our compliance with the provisions of our existing credit agreements and, when needed, our ability to renew such agreements or obtain alternative or additional financing. 12 Table of Contents We currently have a substantial amount of indebtedness outstanding. The agreements associated with our indebtedness include a number of financial covenants. If we do not satisfy the covenants in our credit agreements, including the covenant to file consolidated financial statements, and are unable to obtain related waivers or amendments, the lenders could declare a default under our credit agreements. Any default under our credit agreements will allow the respective lenders the option to demand repayment of the indebtedness outstanding, and would allow certain other lenders to exercise their rights and remedies under cross-default provisions. If these lenders were to exercise their rights to accelerate the indebtedness outstanding, there can be no assurance that we would be able to refinance or otherwise repay any amounts that may become accelerated under the agreements. The acceleration of a significant portion of our indebtedness would have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity and financial condition. If we do not satisfy the foregoing covenants and the lenders do not grant waivers and elect to exercise their remedies upon default, we would be required to refinance or otherwise repay this outstanding indebtedness. Given our existing financial condition and current conditions in the global credit markets, should these events occur, there would likely be uncertainties regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. Restrictions in our debt agreements limit our operating and strategic flexibility. Our debt agreements contain restrictions, covenants and default provisions that, among other factors, require us to satisfy financial covenant tests, including maintaining a minimum net worth for certain operating subsidiaries and meeting a consolidated fixed-charge coverage ratio. Among other things, these restrictions, covenants and default provisions limit our ability to, or do not permit us to: • incur additional debt; • create liens; • redeem and prepay certain debt; • pay cash dividends, make other distributions or repurchase stock; • make investments; • engage in asset sales outside the ordinary course of business; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; • engage in certain mergers and acquisitions; and • make certain capital expenditures. Events beyond our control could also affect our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants, including the required financial covenant tests. Failure to comply with any of these debt covenants would result in a default under the applicable agreements and under our other debt agreements containing cross-default provisions. A default would permit lenders to accelerate the maturity of the debt under these agreements, foreclose upon our assets securing the debt and terminate any commitments to lend. Under these circumstances, we may not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy our debt and other obligations. In addition, the limitations imposed by these debt agreements on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions may significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing. 13 Table of Contents Our substantial leverage and related debt service obligations could adversely affect our cash flows and business. In addition, we have not generated consistent positive cash flows from operations in recent years. Our failure to generate positive cash flows from operations in the future would materially adversely affect our ability to meet our debt service obligations. Among other things, our substantial indebtedness and debt service obligations: • limit the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and other general corporate purposes; • limit our ability to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all; • increase our exposure to fluctuating interest rates; • restrict our credit with suppliers, limiting our ability to purchase inventory; and • make us more vulnerable to economic downturns, increased competition and adverse industry conditions, which places us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness. In 2008 and 2007, we incurred significant losses. During the same periods, we used $10.9 million and $8.8 million, respectively, in cash to repay principal and pay interest on our outstanding debt. At May 31, 2009, our aggregate outstanding indebtedness was approximately $372 million. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future, it may be necessary for us to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, obtain additional financing or take other actions. As a result of our failure to comply with SEC reporting obligations, we were required to obtain waivers in connection with the delivery of audited consolidated financial statements and related matters under our debt agreements. We may need to obtain additional waivers in the future. The failure to obtain the necessary waivers could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity and financial condition. Under our debt agreements, our lenders have the right to notify us if they believe we have breached a representation or covenant and may declare an event of default. If we do not cure the events of default or obtain necessary waivers within the required time periods, our lenders would be permitted to accelerate the maturity of the debt under these agreements, foreclose upon our assets securing the debt and terminate any commitments to lend. In addition, our ability to incur additional indebtedness would be restricted. Moreover, material defaults under our debt agreements could trigger cross-default provisions under other debt arrangements. In 2009, 2008 and 2007, we obtained agreements from our lenders to waive breaches under our debt agreements and establish extended deadlines for the delivery of our audited consolidated financial statements. If we are unable to provide audited consolidated financial statements on a timely basis in future periods or if we were to breach any other covenants, there can be no assurance that any additional waivers will be received on a timely basis, if at all, or that any waivers obtained will extend for a sufficient period of time to avoid an acceleration event, an event of default or other restrictions on our business. The failure to obtain the necessary modifications or waivers could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity and financial condition. We may need additional funding to support our operations. Sufficient funding will be subject to conditions and may not be available to us, which would adversely affect our business. We rely heavily on debt financing for our operations, which could become more and more difficult to obtain given the recent uncertainties in the global credit markets. Our debt financing arrangements are for terms that vary. Our primary revolving line of credit in the United States expires in September 2010 and our primary line of credit in Europe expires in October 2011. At the expiration of any credit facility, the lender is not obligated to renegotiate the terms of the loan and can 14 Table of Contents require full repayment at that time. In the past, we have successfully extended the term of each of our facilities on or before the time they expired. However, we cannot assure you that in the future our lenders will be willing to extend the terms of our existing loans, or extend the terms of those loans on terms that are acceptable to us. If we are unable to secure additional financing at the expiration of any our debt facilities, our business would be adversely impacted. If the global credit market crisis continues, it may impact our ability to obtain debt financing for our operations and the unavailability of funding could adversely affect our business. As a result of current economic uncertainties, including with respect to global capital and credit markets and overall economic growth, we may find it more difficult or expensive to secure additional capital or credit to pursue actions we would consider beneficial to us or our shareholders, such as acquisitions or capital investments. Our ability to continue operations could also be dependent on our ability to obtain alternative debt and/or equity financing. The inability to obtain such financing would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Our primary revolving credit facilities are subject to borrowing base limitations, which could adversely affect our liquidity and business. The maximum amounts we can borrow under our primary revolving credit facilities are subject to borrowing base limitations, which are calculated as a percentage of our eligible inventory and accounts receivable. If our inventory or accounts receivable are deemed ineligible, because, for example, they are held outside certain geographical limitations or a receivable is older than 90 days, the amount we can borrow under the revolving credit facilities could be reduced. This reduction could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity and business. A substantial part of our debt was financed by a bond offering we made in 2004. The bond indenture permits the bondholders to require us to redeem the bonds at face value in March 2011, which, if required, would materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. In 2004, we sold bonds to the public in the amount of $110 million. The bond indenture permits the bondholders to require us to redeem the bonds at face value in March 2011, March 2014 and March 2019. If the bondholders require us to redeem the bonds in March 2011, we would be required to pay to the bondholders $110 million. If we are unable to raise the funds necessary to pay the bondholders, which could be difficult in the current global credit market, we would be in default of our obligations under the indenture, which could lead to a cross-default of most of our other outstanding debt arrangements requiring all of that debt to be repaid. If we unable to cure the defaults, our lenders could exercise their contractual remedies, including the foreclosure on our inventory and accounts receivable. We are subject to a proposed tax assessment in France that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. On June 4, 2008, our export subsidiary in the United Kingdom received notification from the French tax authorities that they were proposing to issue a tax deficiency notice against our export subsidiary for the failure to pay value-added tax and corporate income tax in France during the period of January 1, 2002 to December 31, 2006, in an amount, including interest and penalties, of approximately €27.3 million ($38.2 million at an exchange rate of $1.40/€1.00 as of December 31, 2008). Subsequently, the French tax authorities issued a tax assessment against our U.K. export subsidiary. We intend to defend this matter vigorously and avail ourselves of all available defenses. The matter is in the preliminary stages and, therefore, we are not in a position to estimate a loss, if any, or a range of potential loss. As no amount of potential loss is both probable and estimable, no accrual has been made in the consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2008 or 2007. However, a negative outcome of this matter could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The goodwill on our balance sheet may not be recoverable and may be impaired in future periods, reducing the carrying value of goodwill as an asset. The value of goodwill on our balance sheet is evaluated, in part, based on the trading price of our common stock. On December 31, 2008 and 2007, the per-share closing price of our common stock was $0.60 and $6.01, respectively. During 2008 and 2007, we recorded aggregate goodwill impairment charges of $58.3 million. On May 29, 2009, our stock closed at $1.07 per share, but has traded below $1.00 in 2009. As a result, goodwill may be further impaired in 2009. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the carrying value of our goodwill was $19.2 million and $26.2 million, respectively. 15 Table of Contents We rely in large part on credit lines provided by manufacturers to finance our inventory purchases, which lines are subject to change by the manufacturer with little or no notice. Without such credit lines our ability to purchase and hold inventory could be negatively impacted, which could adversely affect our results of operations and business. To finance our purchases of inventory, we rely in large part on credit lines provided by the product manufacturers. These manufacturers are under no obligation to provide these credit lines to us and have complete discretion in determining the size of the credit lines. Our manufacturers could determine to reduce or eliminate these credit lines because of their own financial condition, the global credit environment or their perception of our creditworthiness. In the event one or more credit lines is reduced or eliminated, our ability to purchase and hold inventory would be negatively impacted, and would likely have an adverse impact on our results of operations and business. A portion of our profitability is based on rebates we receive from manufacturers. These rebates may be reduced by manufacturers or we may not be able to participate in rebate offers made by manufacturers. Manufacturers have historically offered to their distribution partners, including us, rebates associated with the sale of their products. Recently, because of global economic issues, manufacturers have begun selectively reducing the rebates they offer. In addition, some rebates require us to qualify in order to receive the rebates by taking relatively large orders over a short period of time or paying invoices in significantly less time than what is commercially standard under the circumstances. Due to our financial condition, we may be unwilling or unable to take advantage of these rebate offers from manufacturers, thereby adversely impacting our profitability. Risks Related to Our Business We rely on a small number of suppliers for products that represent a significant portion of our inventory purchases. Any change in our relationships with these suppliers could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In 2008, 2007 and 2006, five suppliers accounted for approximately 24%, 26% and 36%, respectively, of our inventory purchases. These suppliers have a variety of other distributors to choose from, which allows them to make substantial demands of us. In addition, each of these suppliers may terminate its relationship with us on relatively short notice. A change in our relationships with these suppliers could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Many suppliers have consolidated in recent years, resulting in fewer suppliers of the products in the markets we serve. Moreover, suppliers have been consolidating the number of distributors they utilize. Further consolidation in the industry could adversely affect our relationships with our suppliers, which could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, certain suppliers in our industry routinely purchase credit insurance from several major carriers to manage collection risks, and there can be no assurance that credit insurance will continue to be provided by those carriers. A reduction in credit insurance available to our suppliers could result in decreased credit lines from suppliers to us and, therefore, impact our ability to maintain sufficient inventory, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A reduction in the vendor allowances we collect from the manufacturers of the products we sell could adversely affect our results of operations. We receive credits from manufacturers of the products we sell for price protection, product rebates, marketing, promotions and other competitive pricing programs. In some instances, these vendor allowances represent a significant contribution to our pricing decisions and, therefore, our profitability. If manufacturers reduce the amount of vendor allowances available to us, decide to terminate vendor allowance programs, or if we are unable to collect allowances that have been made available to us, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We operate in an industry with significant pricing and margin pressure. Our industry experiences intense competition in pricing. There are several distributors in each of the markets in which we operate that distribute products that are identical or similar to the products we distribute. As a result, we face pricing and margin pressure on a continual basis. Additionally, the mix of products we sell also affects overall margins. If we increase sales from products that are more widely distributed, we may reduce our overall gross profit margin, as those products typically have lower margins. Freight costs and foreign currency exchange exposure can also have an adverse effect on margins. 16 Table of Contents Our international operations trade in local currencies that subject us to risks related to the fluctuation of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar. Our international revenues represented 57%, 58% and 60% of our revenues in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We believe that international sales will represent a large percentage of our net sales for the foreseeable future. Because our international operations trade in the currencies of the jurisdictions in which they operate, we are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and face exposure to adverse changes in these rates. These exposures may be different over time as business practices change. For each of our foreign subsidiaries, the local currency is its functional currency. To the extent our revenues and expenses are denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, gains and losses on the conversion to U.S. dollars may contribute to fluctuations in our operating results. We have in the past entered, and expect in the future to enter into, hedging arrangements and local currency borrowing facilities to reduce this exposure, but these arrangements will not eliminate the significant effects these currency fluctuations may have on our results of operations. An increase in the value of the dollar could increase the real cost of our products to our customers in those markets outside the United States where we sell in dollars, and a weakened dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of product to the extent that we must purchase product in foreign currencies. The products we sell may not satisfy shifting customer demand or compete successfully with our competitors’ products. Our business is based on the demand for the products we sell, which are primarily used in the manufacture or configuration of electronic products. These end products typically have short life cycles and experience intense price competition. Our success depends upon our ability to identify new product lines that will achieve market acceptance and to establish relationships with suppliers that will develop these products on a timely basis in response to the rapid technological changes in our industry. If we misinterpret consumer preferences or fail to respond to changes in the marketplace, consumer demand for the products we sell could decrease. Furthermore, our suppliers must commit significant resources each time they develop a product. If they do not invest in the development of new products, then the range of products we offer may be reduced and the demand for the products we offer may decrease. If any of these events occur, our sales could decline. A substantial portion of our sales consist of disk drives, which subjects us to the significant fluctuations in the overall disk drive market. In 2008, 2007, and 2006, 26%, 31% and 31%, respectively, of our worldwide sales consisted of disk drives, and 37%, 41% and 42%, respectively, of our U.S. Distribution sales. In 2008, the disk drive market was impacted by the global economic crisis in terms of decreased volume and average selling prices, resulting in a year-over-year decrease in our disk drive revenue of 25% both worldwide and in the U.S. Distribution segment. The overall disk drive market is subject to significant fluctuations over time and, because a significant portion of our sales consist of disk drives, our revenue and our profitability are subject to those same significant fluctuations. Our reliance on legacy information systems that are supported by a few individuals, as well as a lack of a fully integrated information system could materially adversely affect our business. Some of our information systems consist of legacy applications that are supported by small internal and external IT teams. As a result, the expertise to maintain and upgrade these systems resides in a few individuals, which, given the legacy nature of the information systems, could make replacement of these individuals very difficult. These legacy IT systems may also not be compatible with commercially available software. In addition, our information systems are not consistent across our operations, making consolidation of financial information increasingly difficult. A loss of our internal or external IT teams or the ability to consolidate financial and other information across our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The value of our inventory may decline, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business model requires that we purchase and maintain adequate levels of inventory in order to meet customer needs on a timely basis. The markets we serve are subject to rapid technological change, new and enhanced products and evolving industry standards. These changes, along with changes in customer demand, may cause our inventory on hand to 17 Table of Contents substantially decline in value. A majority of our suppliers provide protection from a loss in inventory values through price protection or the option to return products, in some circumstances. However, our suppliers may become unable or unwilling to fulfill these obligations. Supply shortages could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. We are dependent on our suppliers for the products we sell. Historically, our industry has experienced periods of product shortages due to suppliers’ inability to accurately project demand. When these shortages occur, we typically receive an allocation of the available product from our suppliers. We cannot assure you that our suppliers will be able to maintain an adequate supply of products to fulfill all of our customers’ orders on a timely basis. If we are unable to enter into and maintain satisfactory distribution arrangements, it may delay the availability and shipment of products to our customers. This may lead to our customers purchasing products from our competitors, which could adversely affect our business. If we do not control our operating expenses, we may not be able to successfully implement our strategy. The successful implementation of our strategy depends, to a substantial degree, upon our ability to increase sales while, at the same time, reducing or controlling operating expenses. We have implemented initiatives intended to increase productivity and reduce costs. These initiatives include significant personnel reductions, reduction or elimination of non-personnel expenses, streamlining operations and consolidating business lines. We cannot assure you that our efforts will produce the expected cost savings and other benefits. Moreover, our cost reduction efforts may adversely affect our financial and operational controls and our ability to distribute products in volumes required to meet customer demand. These efforts may also result in disruptions that could adversely affect our ability to service customers. Our ability to operate effectively could be impaired if we fail to attract and retain key personnel and qualified managers. Our success largely depends on our ability to recruit and retain qualified managers and key personnel. If one or more of our key personnel, particularly W. Donald Bell, our Chief Executive Officer and President, resigns or otherwise terminates his or her employment with us, we could experience a loss of sales and supplier relationships and diversion of management resources. Competition for skilled employees in the technology industry is intense, especially in the San Francisco Bay Area, where many of our key employees are located. There can be no assurance that we will be able to recruit and retain such personnel. In order to attract and retain personnel in a competitive marketplace, we have historically provided competitive compensation packages, including equity-based compensation. The decline in our stock price, or the expectation that our stock price may not increase over time, may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain key employees. In addition, our stock option plan expired in May 2008. As a result, we are currently unable to grant additional stock options or other equity awards to help attract and retain officers and other key employees. We have scheduled our next annual meeting of shareholders to be held on August 19, 2009, and intend to ask our shareholders to adopt a new equity incentive plan at that time. We can provide no assurance that our shareholders will vote to adopt a new equity incentive plan. Without an active equity incentive plan, our ability to attract and retain personnel will be impacted negatively. Further, the compensation expense that must be recognized in connection with the grant of stock options and other equity awards may limit the attractiveness of using equity-based compensation as a primary incentive and retention tool in the future. If we are unable to retain our existing key personnel or hire and integrate new management or employees, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our international operations subject us to additional risks that may adversely affect our results of operations. As described above, sales from our international operations in recent years have represented a significant percentage of our net sales, and we believe that international sales will continue to represent a significant portion of our business. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks, including: • accounts receivable collection risks, longer payment cycles and unpredictable sales cycles; • costs and difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; • import and export license requirements, tariffs, taxes and other trade barriers; 18 Table of Contents • potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on repatriating earnings and the potential for “double taxation”; • the burden of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws, treaties and technical standards, and changes in those regulations; and • local political and economic instability. Our inability to adequately assess and monitor credit risks of our customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We are subject to the credit risk of our customers. We use various methods to screen potential customers and establish appropriate credit limits; however, these methods cannot eliminate all potential bad credit risks and may not prevent us from approving applications that are fraudulently completed. Moreover, businesses that are good credit risks at the time of application may become bad credit risks over time and we may fail to detect this change. In times of economic recession, the number of our customers who default on payments owed to us tends to increase. If we fail to adequately assess and monitor our credit risks, we could experience longer payment cycles, increased collection costs and higher bad debt expense. Most of our sales are on an open credit basis, with typical payment terms of 30 days in the United States and, because of local customs or conditions, longer periods in some markets outside the United States. We monitor individual customer payment capability in granting such open credit arrangements, seek to limit such open credit to amounts we believe the customers can pay, and maintain reserves we believe are adequate to cover exposure for doubtful accounts. Our exposure to credit risks may increase if our customers are adversely affected by the current global economic downturn, or if there is a continuation or worsening of the downturn. Although we have programs in place that are designed to monitor and mitigate the associated risk, including monitoring of particular risks in certain geographic areas, there can be no assurance that such programs will be effective in reducing our credit risks. In the past, there have been bankruptcies among customers, causing us to incur economic or financial losses. There can be no assurance that additional losses will not be incurred. Future losses, if incurred, could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Additionally, to the degree that the ongoing turmoil in the credit markets makes it more difficult for some customers to obtain financing, those customers’ ability to pay could be adversely impacted, which, in turn, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, our ability to borrow under our primary revolving credit facility and to incur additional indebtedness is subject to limits based on a percentage of our outstanding accounts receivable. A decrease in accounts receivable resulting from an increase in bad debt expense could adversely affect our liquidity. If we are unable to effectively compete in our industry, our operating results may suffer. The markets in which we compete are highly competitive. As a result, we face a variety of significant challenges, including rapid technological advances, price erosion, changing customer preferences and evolving industry standards. Our competitors continue to offer products with improved price and performance characteristics, and we will have to do the same in order to remain competitive. Increased competition could result in significant price competition, reduced revenues, lower profit margins or loss of market share, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot be certain that we will be able to compete successfully in the future. We compete for customer relationships with numerous local, regional, national and international distributors. We also compete for customer relationships with suppliers, including some of our own suppliers and customers. We believe our most significant competition for customers seeking both products and services arises from Arrow, Avnet and Magirus. We believe our most significant competition for customers seeking only products arises from Ingram Micro, Tech Data, SYNNEX, Actebis and Intcomex. We also compete with regionalized distributors in North America, Europe and Latin America who use their localized knowledge and expertise as a competitive advantage. Some of our competitors have superior brand recognition and greater financial resources than we do, which may enable them to increase their market share at our expense. If we are unable to successfully compete, our operating results may suffer. We also compete with other distributors for relationships with suppliers. In recent years, a growing number of suppliers have begun consolidating the number of distributors they use. This consolidation could result in fewer major 19 Table of Contents distributors in our industry. As a result of this consolidation, we may lose relationships with certain existing suppliers. In addition, suppliers have established, and may continue to establish, cooperative relationships with other suppliers and data storage solution providers. These cooperative relationships may enable suppliers to offer comprehensive solutions that compete with those we offer and the suppliers may have greater resources to devote to sales and marketing efforts. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with existing suppliers and not establish new relationships, it could harm our competitive position and adversely affect our operating results. Our lack of long-term agreements with our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. Most of our sales are made on an order-by-order basis, rather than under long-term sales agreements. We make commitments to our suppliers based on our forecasts of future demand. A variety of conditions, both those specific to our customers and those generally affecting the economy in the markets in which we operate, may cause our customers to cancel, reduce or delay purchase orders that were previously made or anticipated. Generally, customers can cancel, reduce or delay purchase orders and commitments without penalty. We seek to mitigate these risks, in some cases, by entering into sales agreements that prohibit order cancellations and product returns. However, we cannot assure you that these agreements will adequately protect us or that the customer will honor the agreement. A significant number of cancellations, reductions or delays in orders by customers could materially adversely affect our business. Failure to identify acquisition opportunities or to successfully integrate acquired businesses into our operations could reduce our revenues and profits and limit our growth. Historically, a substantial part of our growth has been achieved through the acquisition of complementary businesses. An important component of our strategy is to continue to pursue selective acquisitions to develop and expand our business. The issues relating to the restatement of our consolidated financial statements, the inability to timely file periodic reports with the SEC and the delisting of our common stock have adversely affected our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities, in part, because of our inability to issue additional registered shares. Our identification of suitable acquisition candidates involves risks inherent in assessing the value, strengths, weaknesses, overall risks and profitability of acquisition candidates. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates in the future. If we do not make suitable acquisitions, we may find it more difficult to realize our growth objectives. The process of integrating new businesses into our operations poses numerous risks, including: • an inability to integrate acquired operations, accounting systems and processes, information systems and internal control systems; • exposure to unanticipated contingent liabilities of acquired companies; • use of substantial portions of our available cash to consummate an acquisition and/or to operate the acquired business; • diversion of management’s attention; • difficulties and uncertainties in transitioning the business relationships from the acquired entity to us; • the loss of key supplier relationships upon a change of ownership of the acquired business; and • the loss of key employees of acquired companies, which could lead to a loss of customers or supplier relationships. In addition, future acquisitions may be dilutive to our shareholders, cause us to incur additional indebtedness and large one-time expenses or create intangible assets that could result in significant amortization expense. If we expend significant amounts of cash or incur additional debt, our liquidity may decline and we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and competitive pressures. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully complete any future acquisitions, that we will be able to finance acquisitions or that we will realize any anticipated benefits from any acquisitions that we do complete. 20 Table of Contents Our geographic coverage on the European continent is not as extensive as some of our competitors, which may lead manufacturers to select our competitors over us as their distributor. Our geographic coverage on the European continent is not as extensive as some of our competitors. Manufacturers use a variety of criteria to select their distributors, whether for new products or in the event of distributor consolidation. Our smaller geographic coverage as compared to some of our competitors may cause manufacturers to select our competitors as their distributors rather than us, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. If we cannot effectively manage our growth, our business may suffer. Although our overall sales decreased from 2007 to 2008, we have historically experienced significant revenue growth each year. We intend to continue to pursue the growth of our business by increasing our sales efforts and completing selective acquisitions. Such growth places a significant strain on our managerial, financial, operational, technical, sales, marketing and administrative resources. To effectively manage our growth, we must, among other factors: • engage, train and manage a larger sales and marketing force and additional service personnel; • expand the geographic coverage of our sales force; • expand our information systems; • identify and successfully integrate acquired businesses into our operations; • successfully develop and deploy competitive e-commerce and web-based technologies; and • enforce appropriate financial and administrative control procedures. Any failure to effectively manage our growth may adversely affect our business. The current economic downturn has adversely affected customer spending patterns, which has affected our business and results of operations and may have further adverse effects on our business. The disruptions in the financial markets and challenging economic conditions have adversely affected the United States and world economy and, in particular, reduced consumer spending and spending by businesses. Turmoil in global credit markets and recent turmoil in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world and other disruptions, such as changes in energy costs, are and may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions. Our operating results in one or more segments may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions particularly germane to that segment or to particular customer markets within that segment. If our customers delay or cancel spending on their IT infrastructure, that decision could result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles and increased price competition. There can be no assurances that government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets will restore spending to previous levels. If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in the United States or other key markets, remain uncertain or persist, spread, or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our geographic reach requires that we have a significant amount of intercompany sales across international borders, which subject us to the risk that the transfer pricing between our subsidiaries will be subject to review by the local taxing authorities. A finding by the local taxing authorities that our transfer pricing is inadequate could subject us to significant liability. We sell a significant amount of product to our local subsidiaries at a cost we believe is fair and reasonable based on the cost of the product plus a reasonable margin. Because these sales are significant, the sales are subject to review by local taxing authorities who may claim that we transferred the goods at a cost that is below that which is fair or reasonable. If we are subject to review, we may incur significant costs participating in and responding to such an investigation. In addition, if it is determined that we did not adequately set the transfer prices between our cross-border subsidiaries, we may be subject to tax assessments that could be significant and adversely impact our results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Some of our operations are located in areas that are subject to natural disasters that could result in a business stoppage and adversely affect our results of operations. Our operations depend on our ability to maintain and protect our facilities, computer systems and personnel. Our corporate headquarters, including some of our business operations, computer systems and personnel, are located in the San Francisco Bay Area, which is in close proximity to known earthquake faults. In addition, a substantial portion of our IT infrastructure is located in Montgomery, Alabama, which is susceptible to tornados and hurricanes. Our backup systems only reside locally for each IT system. An earthquake or other catastrophe, communication failure or similar event, which disables our facilities requiring transportation of electronic backup media to an unaffected location, or impairs the transportation of our employees and causes a business interruption, may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business model requires us to hold inventory in a number of different locations, both internationally and domestically, and is subject to inventory theft. We hold inventory of expensive high technology products in reasonable proximity to our customers around the world. From time to time in the past, we have experienced inventory theft, both in the United States and abroad. While we have safeguards in place to protect against theft, theft continues to occur. In addition, we purchase insurance to cover potential theft; however, the insurance policies require payment of high deductibles and may not cover every situation. If we were to experience a significant loss of inventory due to theft, it could have an adverse effect on our results of financial condition. We operate in a number of jurisdictions and some of our personnel travel extensively, which may subject our employees to contagious airborne pathogens, including the H1N1 influenza virus or “swine flu.” We operate in a number of jurisdictions, including a number of countries in Latin America. Our personnel also travel extensively by air and other modes of common commercial transportation. If a significant number of our personnel were to become exposed to one or more contagious pathogens, including the H1N1 influenza virus, or if one or more of the countries we operate in experiences a significant quarantine, our ability to sell products to our customers could be negatively impacted, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile in the future, which could cause the value of an investment in our common stock to decline. From January 1, 2009 through May 29, 2009, the high and low sales prices of our common stock were $1.21 and $0.36, respectively. The market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate substantially in the future in response to a number of factors, including: • fluctuations in our quarterly operating results or the operating results of our competitors; • continued operating losses or the inability to generate positive cash flows; • changes in general conditions in the economy, the financial markets or our industry; • the ability to timely file future consolidated financial statements; • the ability to remediate identified material weaknesses; • announcements of significant acquisitions, strategic alliances or joint ventures by our customers or our competitors; and • other developments affecting us, our industry, suppliers, customers or competitors. The stock market has recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating 22 Table of Contents performance. These broad market fluctuations may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating results. In addition, as a result of its small public float and limited trading volume, our common stock may be more susceptible to volatility arising from any of these factors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 