ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There are a number of risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those that are indicated by forward-looking statements. Those factors include, without limitation, those listed below and elsewhere herein. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS If we are unable to commercialize our Phase 3 and earlier development molecules, we may not be able to recover our investment in our product development, manufacturing and marketing efforts. We have invested significant time and resources to isolate and study genes and determine their functions. We now devote most of our resources to developing proteins, antibodies and small molecules for the treatment of human disease. We are also devoting substantial resources to our own manufacturing capabilities, to support clinical testing, to supply raxibacumab to the SNS and for potential commercialization of our other products. We expect to devote substantial resources to establish and maintain a marketing capability for any of our products that are approved by the FDA. We have made and are continuing to make substantial expenditures in advance of commercializing any products. Before we can commercialize a product, we must rigorously test the product in the laboratory and complete extensive human studies. We cannot assure you that the tests and studies will yield products approved for marketing by the FDA in the United States or similar regulatory authorities in other countries, or that any such products will be profitable. We will incur substantial additional costs to continue these activities. If we are not successful in commercializing our Phase 3 and earlier development molecules, we may be unable to recover the large investment we have made in research, development, manufacturing and marketing efforts. If we are unable to obtain marketing approval for BENLYSTATM or ZALBINTM, our results of operations and business will be materially and adversely affected. In July 2009, we reported the results from the first of our two Phase 3 clinical trials for BENLYSTA. In that trial BENLYSTA met its primary efficacy endpoint. In November 2009, we reported the 52-week results from the second of our two Phase 3 clinical trials for BENLYSTA. In that trial, BENLYSTA at a dose of 10 mg/kg also met its primary efficacy endpoint. Although the primary efficacy endpoint of the BLISS-76 trial was assessed after 52 weeks, we will continue to collect additional data from this trial for an additional 24 weeks. There can be no assurance that the additional data collected will be positive. Despite our determination that the results from the two BENLYSTA trials were positive, the FDA may determine that the results from the two trials are insufficient to file a BLA or do not support marketing approval or are insufficient to obtain marketing approval. In March 2009, we reported the results from the second of our two Phase 3 clinical trials for ZALBIN. In that trial, as well as the trial we reported on in December 2008, ZALBIN met its primary efficacy endpoint. In January 2008, we modified the dosing in our two ZALBIN Phase 3 clinical trials. Patients who had been receiving the 1200-mcg dose were moved to the 900-mcg dose based on a recommendation made by our independent data monitoring committee. The recommendation was based on the incidence rate of serious pulmonary adverse events in the 1200-mcg arm of the two ZALBIN trials. In November 2009, we filed a BLA with the FDA on ZALBIN. Despite our determination that the results from the two ZALBIN trials were positive, the FDA may determine that the results do not support marketing approval or are insufficient to obtain marketing approval. In addition, our partners, Novartis for ZALBIN and GSK for BENLYSTA, may determine that the results of these trials do not warrant further development or commercialization and may terminate their respective collaboration agreements. If the results of the BENLYSTA trials are not sufficient to file a BLA, or if we are unable to obtain marketing approval for either or both products or if either of our partners terminates its collaboration agreement, our results of operations and business will be materially adversely affected and we may not have sufficient resources to continue development of these or other products. We may be unable to successfully establish commercial manufacturing capability and may be unable to obtain required quantities of our product candidates for commercial use. We have not yet manufactured any products approved for commercial use and, except for raxibacumab, have limited experience in manufacturing materials suitable for commercial use. We have only limited experience manufacturing in a large-scale manufacturing facility built to increase our capacity for protein and antibody drug 15 production. The FDA must inspect and license our facilities to determine compliance with cGMP requirements for commercial production. We may not be able to successfully establish sufficient manufacturing capabilities or manufacture our products economically or in compliance with cGMPs and other regulatory requirements. For example, we believe that we have sufficient manufacturing capacity to launch BENLYSTA, if it is approved by the FDA, and to supply commercial quantities of BENLYSTA to approximately 45,000 to 55,000 patients. If the demand for BENLYSTA exceeds our capacity to supply BENLYSTA to patients, we will need to contract for additional manufacturing capacity with a third-party manufacturer or buy or build additional manufacturing capacity. We believe that engaging a third-party manufacturer or buying or building additional manufacturing capacity will take between two and five years or longer due, in part, to the required regulatory approvals and will require substantial expenditures. We may not be able to contract with a third-party manufacturer on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or find or build such capacity in the timeframe to meet demand, and our revenues may be limited from BENLYSTA if we are unable to do so successfully. Currently each of our products, BENLYSTA, ZALBIN and raxibacumab, is produced at a single manufacturing site. BENLYSTA is produced at our large-scale manufacturing facility in Rockville, Maryland and ZALBIN and raxibacumab are produced in separate parts of our small-scale manufacturing facility also in Rockville, Maryland. Each of these facilities is the sole source for these products. We cannot guarantee that one or more of these manufacturing plants will not encounter problems, including but not limited to loss of power, equipment failure or viral or microbial contamination, which could impact our ability to deliver adequate supply of one or more of these products to the market. While we have expanded our manufacturing capabilities, we have previously contracted and expect to contract with third-party manufacturers or develop products with collaboration partners and use the collaboration partners’ manufacturing capabilities. If we use others to manufacture our products, we will depend on those parties to comply with cGMPs, and other regulatory requirements and to deliver materials on a timely basis. These parties may not perform adequately, or comparability between the licensed product and that produced at the third-party may not be established successfully. Any failures by these third parties may delay our development of products or the submission of these products for regulatory approval. Because we currently have only a limited marketing capability and in light of various factors, we may be unable to price or sell any of our products effectively. We do not have any marketed products, although we have sold raxibacumab to the U.S. Government. If we receive approval for products that can be marketed, we intend to market the products either independently or together with collaborators or strategic partners. GSK, Novartis and others have co-commercialization rights with respect to certain of our products. If we decide to market any products, either independently or together with partners, we will incur significant additional expenditures and commit significant additional management resources to establish a sales force. For any products that we market together with partners, we will rely, in whole or in part, on the marketing capabilities of those parties. We may also contract with third parties to market certain of our products. Ultimately, we and our partners may not be successful in marketing our products. In addition, the prices for our products may be impacted by various factors, including economic analyses of the burden of the applicable disease, the perceived value of the product and third party reimbursement policies. We can provide no assurance as to the price at which we may be able to sell any of our products, or that we will be able to price any of our products at a level that is consistent with other similar products. If we are unable to expand label usage of BENLYSTA, we may not recognize the full value of the product candidate and there may be adverse effects on our expected financial and operating results. BENLYSTA is a human monoclonal antibody that recognizes and inhibits the biological activity of B-lymphocyte stimulator, or BLyS®, and is being developed as a potential treatment for SLE. If the FDA approves BENLYSTA for the treatment of SLE, we intend to seek expansion of the approved uses, or labeled uses, of BENLYSTA in the U.S. However, we may be unable to obtain approval for such label expansion in full or in part. If we are not able to obtain approval for expansion of the labeled uses for BENLYSTA, or if we are otherwise unable to fulfill our marketing, sales and distribution plans for BENLYSTA, sales of BENLYSTA may be limited. We may conduct additional trials in support of a supplemental BLA for additional approved uses of BENLYSTA. There can 16 be no guarantee that these trials will be successful or that the FDA will approve a supplemental BLA for expansion of the labeled uses for BENLYSTA. Because our product development efforts depend on new technologies, we cannot be certain that our efforts will be successful. Our work depends on new technologies and on the marketability and profitability of innovative products. Commercialization involves risks of failure inherent in the development of products based on innovative technologies and the risks associated with drug development generally. These risks include the possibility that: • these technologies or any or all of the Phase 3 and earlier development molecules based on these technologies will be ineffective or toxic, or otherwise fail to receive necessary regulatory clearances; • the products, even if safe and effective, will be difficult to manufacture on a large scale or uneconomical to market; • proprietary rights of third parties will prevent us or our collaborators from exploiting technologies or marketing products; and • third parties will market superior or equivalent products. Because we are a late-stage development company, we cannot be certain that we can develop our business or achieve profitability. We expect to continue to incur losses and we cannot assure you that we will ever become profitable on a sustainable basis. A number of our products are in late-stage development; however, it could be one or more years, if ever, before we are likely to receive continuing revenue from product sales or substantial royalty payments. We will continue to incur substantial expenses relating to research, development and manufacturing efforts and human studies. Depending on the stage of development, our products may require significant further research, development, testing and regulatory approvals. We may not be able to develop products that will be commercially successful or that will generate revenue in excess of the cost of development. We are continually evaluating our business strategy, and may modify this strategy in light of developments in our business and other factors. We continue to evaluate our business strategy and, as a result, may modify this strategy in the future. In this regard, we may, from time to time, focus our product development efforts on different products or may delay or halt the development of various products. In addition, as a result of changes in our strategy, we may also change or refocus our existing drug discovery, development, commercialization and manufacturing activities. This could require changes in our facilities and personnel and the restructuring of various financial arrangements. For example, in March 2009, we reduced the scope of efforts in a number of our programs resulting in cost savings for fiscal year 2009, a portion of which came from a reduction in headcount. However, we cannot assure you that changes will occur or that any changes that we implement will be successful. Several years ago, we sharpened our focus on our most promising drug candidates. We reduced the number of drugs in early development and focused our resources on the drugs that address the greatest unmet medical needs with substantial growth potential. In 2006, we spun off our CoGenesys division (“CoGenesys”) as an independent company, in a transaction that was treated as a sale for accounting purposes. In 2008, CoGenesys was acquired by Teva Pharmaceuticals Industries, Ltd. (“Teva”) and became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Teva called Teva Biopharmaceuticals USA, Inc. (“Teva Bio”). Our ability to discover and develop new products will depend on our internal research capabilities and our ability to acquire products. Our internal research capability was reduced when we completed the spin-off of CoGenesys. Although we continue to conduct research and development activities on products, our limited resources for new products may not be sufficient to discover and develop new drug candidates. 17 PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT RISKS Because we have limited experience in developing and commercializing products, we may be unsuccessful in our efforts to do so. Although we are conducting human studies with respect to a number of products, we have limited experience with these activities and may not be successful in developing or commercializing these or other products. Our ability to develop and commercialize products based on proteins, antibodies and small molecules will depend on our ability to: • successfully complete laboratory testing and human studies; • obtain and maintain necessary intellectual property rights to our products; • obtain and maintain necessary regulatory approvals related to the efficacy and safety of our products; • maintain production facilities meeting all regulatory requirements or enter into arrangements with third parties to manufacture our products on our behalf; and • deploy sales and marketing resources effectively or enter into arrangements with third parties to provide these functions. Because clinical trials for our products are expensive and protracted and their outcome is uncertain, we must invest substantial amounts of time and money that may not yield viable products. Conducting clinical trials is a lengthy, time-consuming and expensive process. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any product, we must demonstrate through laboratory, animal and human studies that the product is both effective and safe for use in humans. We will incur substantial additional expense for and devote a significant amount of time to conducting ongoing trials and initiating new trials. Before a drug may be marketed in the United States, a drug must be subject to rigorous preclinical testing. The results of this testing must be submitted to the FDA as part of an IND, which is reviewed by the FDA before clinical testing in humans can begin. The results of preclinical studies do not predict clinical success. A number of potential drugs have shown promising results in early testing but subsequently failed to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. Data obtained from tests are susceptible to varying interpretations, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Regulatory authorities may refuse or delay approval as a result of many other factors, including changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development. Completion of clinical trials may take many years. The time required varies substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the product candidate. The progress of clinical trials is monitored by both the FDA and independent data monitoring committees, which may require the modification, suspension or termination of a trial if it is determined to present excessive risks to patients. Our rate of commencement and completion of clinical trials may be delayed by many factors, including: • our inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of materials for use in clinical trials; • variability in the number and types of patients available for each study; • difficulty in maintaining contact with patients after treatment, resulting in incomplete data; • unforeseen safety issues or side effects; • poor or unanticipated effectiveness of products during the clinical trials; or • government or regulatory delays. To date, data obtained from our clinical trials may not be sufficient to support an application for regulatory approval without further studies. Studies conducted by us or by third parties on our behalf may not demonstrate sufficient effectiveness and safety to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for these or any other potential products. For example, we have submitted BLAs to the FDA for raxibacumab and ZALBIN, but the studies we have conducted to date may not be sufficient to obtain FDA approval. In November 2009, we received a Complete Response Letter from the FDA related to our BLA for raxibacumab. In this letter, the FDA determined that it cannot 18 approve the BLA for raxibacumab in its present form and requested additional studies and data that would be needed prior to the FDA making a decision as to whether or not to approve the raxibacumab BLA. We may not be able to complete the requested studies or to generate the required data in a timely manner, if at all. If the FDA requires that we complete the additional studies and generate the additional data requested in the Complete Response Letter, we may be required to withdraw our existing BLA and resubmit our BLA after completion of such studies. This will start a new review cycle. Even if we could complete such studies and generate such data, the studies and data may not be sufficient for FDA approval. In addition, based on the results of a human study for a particular product candidate, regulatory authorities may not permit us to undertake any additional clinical trials for that product candidate. The clinical trial process may also be accompanied by substantial delay and expense and there can be no assurance that the data generated in these studies will ultimately be sufficient for marketing approval by the FDA. In February 2010, the FDA accepted our ZALBIN BLA filing with a PDUFA action date of October 4, 2010. The development programs for ZALBIN and BENLYSTA have each involved two large-scale, multi-center Phase 3 clinical trials and have been more expensive than our Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials. In December 2008 and March 2009, we announced that we had completed the Phase 3 clinical studies for ZALBIN; in both studies, ZALBIN met its primary efficacy endpoint of non-inferiority to peginterferon alfa-2a. In November 2009, we filed a BLA for ZALBIN with the FDA. In July 2009, we reported the results from the first of our two Phase 3 clinical trials for BENLYSTA. In that trial, BENLYSTA met its primary efficacy endpoint. In November, 2009, we reported the 52 week data from the second Phase 3 clinical trial for BENLYSTA. In that trial, BENLYSTA at a dose of 10 mg/kg also met its primary efficacy endpoint. Although the primary efficacy endpoint of the BLISS-76 study was assessed after 52 weeks, we will continue to collect additional data from this trial for an additional 24 weeks. We may not be able to complete this second BENLYSTA Phase 3 clinical trial successfully or obtain FDA approval of ZALBIN or BENLYSTA. Even if FDA approval is obtained, it may include limitations on the indicated uses for which ZALBIN and/or BENLYSTA may be marketed. We face risks in connection with our raxibacumab product in addition to risks generally associated with drug development. The development of raxibacumab presents risks beyond those associated with the development of our other products. Numerous other companies and governmental agencies are known to be developing biodefense pharmaceuticals and related products to combat anthrax disease. These competitors may have financial or other resources greater than ours, and may have easier or preferred access to the likely distribution channels for biodefense products. In addition, since the primary purchaser of biodefense products is the U.S. Government and its agencies, the success of raxibacumab will depend on government spending policies and pricing restrictions. The funding of government biodefense programs is dependent, in part, on budgetary constraints, political considerations and military developments. In the case of the U.S. Government, executive or legislative action could attempt to impose production and pricing requirements on us. We have entered into a two-phase contract, which may be terminated at any time, to supply raxibacumab, a human monoclonal antibody developed for use in the treatment of anthrax disease, to the U.S. Government. Under the first phase of the contract, we supplied ten grams of raxibacumab to the HHS for comparative in vitro and in vivo testing. Under the second phase of the contract, the U.S. Government ordered 20,001 doses of raxibacumab for the U.S. SNS for use in the treatment of anthrax disease. We completed delivery of these doses and the U.S. Government accepted our deliveries. In July 2009, the U.S. Government agreed to purchase 45,000 additional doses. We, therefore, have future deliveries to make and ongoing obligations under the contract, including the obligation to obtain FDA approval. We will continue to face risks related to the requirements of the contract. If we are unable to meet our obligations associated with this contract, the U.S. Government will not be required to make future payments related to that order. Although we have received U.S. Government approval for two orders of raxibacumab, we cannot assure you we will receive additional orders. In November 2009, we received a Complete Response Letter from the FDA related to our BLA for raxibacumab. In this letter, the FDA determined that it cannot approve our BLA for raxibacumab in its present form and requested additional studies and data that would be needed prior to the FDA making a decision as to whether or not to approve the raxibacumab BLA. We may not be able to complete the requested studies or to generate the required data in a timely manner, if at all. If the FDA requires that we complete the additional studies and generate the additional data requested in the Complete Response Letter, we may be required to withdraw our existing BLA 19 and resubmit our BLA after completion of such studies. This will start a new review cycle. Even if we could complete such studies and generate such data, the studies and data may not be sufficient for FDA approval. Although the government has accepted shipment of raxibacumab subsequent to the receipt of the FDA’s Complete Response Letter, we cannot assure you that the government will continue to accept future shipments or place additional orders. Because neither we nor any of our collaboration partners have received marketing approval for any product candidate resulting from our research and development efforts, and because we may never be able to obtain any such approval, it is possible that we may not be able to generate any product revenue other than with respect to raxibacumab. Although we have submitted BLAs for two of our products (raxibacumab and ZALBIN), we cannot assure you that any of these products will receive marketing approval. It is possible that we will not receive FDA marketing approval for any of our product candidates even if the results of clinical trials are positive. All products being developed by our collaboration partners will also require additional research and development, preclinical studies and extensive clinical trials and regulatory approval prior to any commercial sales. In some cases, the length of time that it takes for our collaboration partners to achieve various regulatory approval milestones may affect the payments that we are eligible to receive under our collaboration agreements. We and our collaboration partners may need to successfully address a number of technical challenges in order to complete development of our products. Moreover, these products may not be effective in treating any disease or may prove to have undesirable or unintended side effects, toxicities or other characteristics that may preclude obtaining regulatory approval or prevent or limit commercial use. RISK FROM COLLABORATION RELATIONSHIPS AND STRATEGIC ACQUISITIONS Our plan to use collaborations to leverage our capabilities and to grow in part through the strategic acquisition of other companies and technologies may not be successful if we are unable to integrate our partners’ capabilities or the acquired companies with our operations or if our partners’ capabilities do not meet our expectations. As part of our strategy, we intend to continue to evaluate strategic partnership opportunities and consider acquiring complementary technologies and businesses. In order for our future collaboration efforts to be successful, we must first identify partners whose capabilities complement and integrate well with ours. Technologies to which we gain access may prove ineffective or unsafe. Our current agreements that grant us access to such technology may expire and may not be renewable or could be terminated if we or our partners do not meet our obligations. These agreements are subject to differing interpretations and we and our partners may not agree on the appropriate interpretation of specific requirements. Our partners may prove difficult to work with or less skilled than we originally expected. In addition, any past collaborative successes are no indication of potential future success. In order to achieve the anticipated benefits of an acquisition, we must integrate the acquired company’s business, technology and employees in an efficient and effective manner. The successful combination of companies in a rapidly changing biotechnology industry may be more difficult to accomplish than in other industries. The combination of two companies requires, among other things, integration of the companies’ respective technologies and research and development efforts. We cannot assure you that this integration will be accomplished smoothly or successfully. The difficulties of integration may be increased by any need to coordinate geographically separated organizations and address possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies. The integration of certain operations will require the dedication of management resources which may temporarily distract attention from the day-to-day operations of the combined companies. The business of the combined companies may also be disrupted by employee retention uncertainty and lack of focus during integration. The inability of management to integrate successfully the operations of the two companies, in particular, the integration and retention of key personnel, or the inability to integrate successfully two technology platforms, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 20 We reacquired rights to HGS-ETR1 from GSK, as well as all GSK rights to other TRAIL Receptor antibodies. We may be unsuccessful in developing and commercializing products from these antibodies without a collaborative partner. As part of our September 1996 agreement with GSK, we granted a 50/50 co-development and co-commercialization option to GSK for certain human therapeutic products that successfully completed Phase 2a clinical trials. In August 2005, we announced that GSK had exercised its option to develop and commercialize HGS-ETR1 (mapatumumab) jointly with us. In April 2008, we announced that we had reacquired all rights to our TRAIL receptor antibodies (including rights to HGS-ETR1 and HGS-ETR2) from GSK, in return for a reduction in royalties due to us if Syncria®, a GSK product for which we would be owed royalties, is commercialized. We also announced that our agreement with the pharmaceutical division of Kirin Brewery Company, Ltd. for joint development of antibodies to TRAIL receptor 2 had been terminated. Takeda Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd. has the right to develop HGS-ETR1 in Japan. As a result of these actions, we have assumed full responsibility for the development and commercialization of products based on these antibodies, except for HGS-ETR1 in Japan. Our ability to receive revenues from the assets licensed in connection with our CoGenesys transaction will depend on Teva Bio’s ability to develop and commercialize those assets. We will depend on Teva Bio to develop and commercialize the assets licensed as part of the spin-off of CoGenesys. If Teva Bio is not successful in its efforts, we will not receive any revenue from the development of these assets. In addition, our relationship with Teva Bio will be subject to the risks and uncertainties inherent in our other collaborations. Because we currently depend on our collaboration partners for substantial revenue, we may not become profitable on a sustainable basis if we cannot increase the revenue from our collaboration partners or other sources. We have received substantial revenue from payments made under collaboration agreements with GSK and Novartis, and to a lesser extent, other agreements. The research term of our initial GSK collaboration agreement and many of our other collaboration agreements expired in 2001. None of the research terms of these collaboration agreements was renewed and we may not be able to enter into additional collaboration agreements. While our partners under our initial GSK collaboration agreement have informed us that they have been pursuing research programs involving different genes for the creation of small molecule, protein and antibody drugs, we cannot assure you that any of these programs will be continued or will result in any approved drugs. Under our present collaboration agreements, we are entitled to certain development and commercialization payments based on our development of the applicable product or certain milestone and royalty payments based on our partners’ development of the applicable product. We may not receive payments under these agreements if we or our collaborators fail to: • develop marketable products; • obtain regulatory approvals for products; or • successfully market products. Further, circumstances could arise under which one or more of our collaboration partners may allege that we breached our agreement with them and, accordingly, seek to terminate our relationship with them. Our collaboration partners may also terminate these agreements without cause or if competent scientific evidence or safety risks do not justify moving the applicable product forward. If any one of these agreements terminates, this could adversely affect our ability to commercialize our products and harm our business. If one of our collaborators pursues a product that competes with our products, there could be a conflict of interest and we may not receive milestone or royalty payments. Each of our collaborators is developing a variety of products, some with other partners. Our collaborators may pursue existing or alternative technologies to develop drugs targeted at the same diseases instead of using our licensed technology to develop products in collaboration with us. Our collaborators may also develop products that are similar to or compete with products they are developing in collaboration with us. If our collaborators pursue 21 these other products instead of our products, we may not receive milestone or royalty payments. For example, GSK has been developing for the treatment of insomnia an orexin inhibitor based on our technology and to which we are entitled to milestones, royalties and co-promotion rights. In July 2008, GSK announced a collaboration with Actelion Ltd. to co-develop and co-commercialize a different orexin inhibitor. While GSK has stated publicly that it intends to continue work on the inhibitor derived from our technology, there can be no assurance that it will continue to do so or that such work will lead to a commercial product. REGULATORY RISKS Because we are subject to extensive changing government regulatory requirements, we may be unable to obtain government approval of our products in a timely manner. Regulations in the United States and other countries have a significant impact on our research, product development and manufacturing activities and will be a significant factor in the marketing of our products. All of our products require regulatory approval prior to commercialization. In particular, our products are subject to rigorous preclinical and clinical testing and other premarket approval requirements by the FDA and similar regulatory authorities in other regions, such as Europe and Asia. Various statutes and regulations also govern or influence the manufacturing, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping and marketing of our products. The lengthy process of seeking these approvals, and the subsequent compliance with applicable statutes and regulations, require the expenditure of substantial resources. Any failure by us to obtain, or any delay in obtaining, regulatory approvals could materially adversely affect our ability to commercialize our products in a timely manner, or at all. Marketing Approvals. Before a product can be marketed and sold in the United States, the results of the preclinical and clinical testing must be submitted to the FDA for approval. This submission will be either a new drug application or a biologics license application, depending on the type of drug. In responding to a new drug application or a BLA, the FDA may grant marketing approval, request additional information or deny the application if it determines that the application does not provide an adequate basis for approval. We cannot assure you that any approval required by the FDA will be obtained on a timely basis, or at all. For example, in November 2009, we received a Complete Response Letter from the FDA related to our BLA for raxibacumab. In this letter, the FDA determined that it cannot approve our BLA for raxibacumab in its present form and requested additional studies and data that would be needed prior to the FDA making a decision as to whether or not to approve the raxibacumab BLA. We may not be able to complete the requested studies or to generate the required data in a timely manner if at all. If the FDA requires that we complete the additional studies and generate the additional data requested in the Complete Response Letter, we may be required to withdraw our existing BLA and resubmit our BLA after completion of such studies. This will start a new review cycle. Even if we could complete such studies and generate such data, the studies and data may not be sufficient for FDA approval. In addition, based on the results of a human study for a particular product candidate, regulatory authorities may not permit us to undertake any additional clinical trials for that product candidate. In November 2009, we filed a BLA with the FDA for ZALBIN. In February 2010, the FDA accepted our ZALBIN BLA filing with a PDUFA action date of October 4, 2010. We plan to file a BLA with the FDA for BENLYSTA in the second quarter of 2010 and to request priority review of that application. The FDA may not grant priority review of our BENLYSTA BLA and may not act on our BLAs in a timely manner. The FDA may determine that our BLAs are insufficient to support marketing approval or may deny our BLAs for either or both products, either of which would materially adversely affect our results of operations and business. The FDA may condition marketing approval on the conduct of specific post-marketing studies to further evaluate safety and efficacy. Rigorous and extensive FDA regulation of pharmaceutical products continues after approval, particularly with respect to compliance with cGMPs, reporting of adverse effects, advertising, promotion and marketing. Discovery of previously unknown problems or failure to comply with the applicable regulatory requirements may result in restrictions on the marketing of a product or withdrawal of the product from the market as well as possible civil or criminal sanctions, any of which could materially adversely affect our business. Foreign Regulation. We must obtain regulatory approval by governmental agencies in other countries prior to commercialization of our products in those countries. Foreign regulatory systems may be just as rigorous, costly and uncertain as in the United States. 22 Because we are subject to environmental, health and safety laws, we may be unable to conduct our business in the most advantageous manner. We are subject to various laws and regulations relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices, the experimental use of animals, emissions and wastewater discharges, and the use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances used in connection with our research, including radioactive compounds and infectious disease agents. We also cannot accurately predict the extent of regulations that might result from any future legislative or administrative action. Any of these laws or regulations could cause us to incur additional expense or restrict our operations. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RISKS If our patent applications do not result in issued patents or if patent laws or the interpretation of patent laws change, our competitors may be able to obtain rights to and commercialize our discoveries. Our pending patent applications, including those covering full-length genes and their corresponding proteins, may not result in the issuance of any patents. Our applications may not be sufficient to meet the statutory requirements for patentability in all cases or may be subject to challenge, if they do issue. Important legal issues remain to be resolved as to the extent and scope of available patent protection for biotechnology products and processes in the United States and other important markets outside the United States, such as Europe and Japan. In the United States, Congress is considering significant changes to U.S. intellectual property laws which could affect the extent and scope of existing protections for biotechnology products and processes. Foreign markets may not provide the same level of patent protection as provided under the U.S. patent system. We expect that litigation or administrative proceedings will likely be necessary to determine the validity and scope of certain of our and others’ proprietary rights. We are currently involved in a number of litigation and administrative proceedings relating to the scope of protection of our patents and those of others in both the United States and in the rest of the world. We are involved in a number of interference proceedings brought by the United States Patent and Trademark Office (“PTO”) and may be involved in other interference proceedings in the future. These proceedings determine the priority of inventions and, thus, the right to a patent for technology in the U.S. For example, we were recently involved in interferences in the United States with both Genentech, Inc. and Immunex Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Amgen, Inc., related to products based on TRAIL Receptor 2 (such as HGS-ETR2). In four of these interferences, we initiated district court litigation to review adverse decisions by the PTO. In two of these cases, we also sought appellate review of a jurisdictional issue decided by the district court. In light of the multiple adverse judgments by the PTO and district court, we requested dismissal of both the district court and appellate actions. Consequently, we will not be able to obtain patent protection for TRAIL Receptor 2 from any of the patents or patent applications that were involved in these litigations. The adverse judgments in these litigations also may prevent us from obtaining other issued patents related to TRAIL Receptor 2. We are also involved in proceedings in connection with foreign patent filings, including opposition and revocation proceedings and may be involved in other opposition proceedings in the future. For example, we are involved in European opposition proceedings against an issued patent of Biogen Idec. In this opposition, the European Patent Office (“EPO”) found the claims of Biogen Idec’s patent to be valid. The claims relate to a method of treating autoimmune diseases using an antibody to BLyS (such as BENLYSTA). We and GSK have entered into a definitive license agreement with Biogen Idec that provides for an exclusive license to this European patent. This patent is still under appeal in Europe. We also have been involved in an opposition proceeding brought by Eli Lilly and Company with respect to our European patent related to BLyS compositions, including antibodies. In 2008, the Opposition Division of the EPO held our patent invalid. We appealed this decision, and in October 2009, a Technical Board of Appeal of the EPO reversed the Opposition Division decision and held that our European patent is valid. Although decisions of a Technical Board of Appeal can be appealed only in limited circumstances, Eli Lilly may appeal this decision. In addition, Eli Lilly instituted a revocation proceeding against our United Kingdom patent that corresponds to our BLyS European patent; in this proceeding the United Kingdom trial court found the patent invalid. We appealed this decision and the UK Court of Appeal upheld the lower court ruling that our United Kingdom patent was invalid. We intend to appeal this decision to the UK Supreme Court. 23 We have also opposed European patents issued to Genentech, Inc. and Immunex Corporation related to products based on TRAIL Receptor 2. Genentech, Inc. and Immunex Corporation also opposed our European patent related to products based on TRAIL Receptor 2. HGS has withdrawn this opposed European patent. Genentech, Inc. also has opposed our Australian patent related to products based on TRAIL Receptor 2. In addition, Genentech, Inc. has opposed our European patent related to products based on TRAIL Receptor 1 (such as HGS-ETR1). We cannot assure you that we will be successful in any of these proceedings. Moreover, any such litigation or proceeding may result in a significant commitment of resources in the future and could force us to do one or more of the following: cease selling or using any of our products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property, which would adversely affect our revenue; obtain a license from the holder of the intellectual property right alleged to have been infringed, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; and redesign our products to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may be time-consuming or impossible to do. In addition, such litigation or proceeding may allow others to use our discoveries or develop or commercialize our products. Changes in, or different interpretations of, patent laws in the United States and other countries may result in patent laws that allow others to use our discoveries or develop and commercialize our products or prevent us from using or commercializing our discoveries and products. We cannot assure you that the patents we obtain or the unpatented technology we hold will afford us significant commercial protection. If others file patent applications or obtain patents similar to ours, then the United States Patent and Trademark Office may deny our patent applications, or others may restrict the use of our discoveries. We are aware that others, including universities and companies working in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical fields, have filed patent applications and have been granted patents in the United States and in other countries that cover subject matter potentially useful or necessary to our business. Some of these patents and patent applications claim only specific products or methods of making products, while others claim more general processes or techniques useful in the discovery and manufacture of a variety of products. The risk of third parties obtaining additional patents and filing patent applications will continue to increase as the biotechnology industry expands. We cannot predict the ultimate scope and validity of existing patents and patents that may be granted to third parties, nor can we predict the extent to which we may wish or be required to obtain licenses to such patents, or the availability and cost of acquiring such licenses. To the extent that licenses are required, the owners of the patents could bring legal actions against us to claim damages or to stop our manufacturing and marketing of the affected products. We believe that there will continue to be significant litigation in our industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. If we become involved in litigation, it could consume a substantial portion of our resources. Because issued patents may not fully protect our discoveries, our competitors may be able to commercialize products similar to those covered by our issued patents. Issued patents may not provide commercially meaningful protection against competitors and may not provide us with competitive advantages. Other parties may challenge our patents or design around our issued patents or develop products providing effects similar to our products. In addition, others may discover uses for genes, proteins or antibodies other than those uses covered in our patents, and these other uses may be separately patentable. The holder of a patent covering the use of a gene, protein or antibody for which we have a patent claim could exclude us from selling a product for a use covered by its patent. We rely on our collaboration partners to seek patent protection for the products they develop based on our research. A significant portion of our future revenue may be derived from royalty payments from our collaboration partners. These partners face the same patent protection issues that we and other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies face. As a result, we cannot assure you that any product developed by our collaboration partners will be patentable, and therefore, revenue from any such product may be limited, which would reduce the amount of any royalty payments. We also rely on our collaboration partners to effectively prosecute their patent applications. Their failure to obtain or protect necessary patents could also result in a loss of royalty revenue to us. 24 If we are unable to protect our trade secrets, others may be able to use our secrets to compete more effectively. We may not be able to meaningfully protect our trade secrets. We rely on trade secret protection to protect our confidential and proprietary information. We believe we have acquired or developed proprietary procedures and materials for the production of proteins and antibodies. We have not sought patent protection for these procedures. While we have entered into confidentiality agreements with employees and collaborators, we may not be able to prevent their disclosure of these data or materials. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent information and processes. FINANCIAL AND MARKET RISKS Because of our substantial indebtedness and lease obligations, we may be unable to adjust our strategy to meet changing conditions in the future. As of December 31, 2009, we had convertible subordinated debt of $349.8 million ($403.9 million on a face value basis) and a long-term lease financing for our large-scale manufacturing facility of $248.6 million on our balance sheet. During 2009 we made cash interest payments on our convertible subordinated debt of $9.9 million. In addition we repurchased $106.2 million of our convertible subordinated debt during 2009 for approximately $50.0 million plus accrued interest. During 2009 we made cash payments on our long-term lease financing of $24.0 million. In addition, we have operating leases, primarily our long-term operating lease for our headquarters, for which we made cash payments of $22.3 million during 2009. Our substantial debt and long-term lease obligations will have several important consequences for our future operations. For instance: • payments of interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness and our long-term lease obligations will be substantial and may exceed then current income and available cash; • we may be unable to obtain additional future financing for continued clinical trials, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes; • we may be unable to withstand changing competitive pressures, economic conditions and governmental regulations; and • we may be unable to make acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of significant business opportunities that may arise. We may not have adequate resources available to repay our Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2011 (“2011 Notes”) and our Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2012 (“2012 Notes”) at maturity. As of December 31, 2009, we had $403.9 million in face value of convertible subordinated debt outstanding, with $197.1 million and $206.8 million due in 2011 and 2012, respectively. Those notes are convertible into our common stock at conversion prices of approximately $15.55 and $17.78 per share, respectively. If our stock price does not exceed the applicable conversion price of those notes, upon maturity, we may need to pay the note holders in cash or restructure some or all of the debt. Our recent stock price has been above the conversion price and we currently have sufficient unrestricted cash should note holders seek cash payment upon maturity. However, since it may be one or more years, if ever, before we are likely to generate significant positive cash flow from operations, we may not have enough cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and marketable securities available to repay our debt upon maturity. To become a successful biopharmaceutical company, we may need additional funding in the future. If we do not obtain this funding on acceptable terms, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to repay our convertible debt, to launch and market successfully our products and to continue our biopharmaceutical discovery and development efforts. We continue to expend substantial funds on our research and development programs and human studies on current and future drug candidates. We expect to expend significant funds to support pre-launch and commercial marketing activities and acquire additional manufacturing capacity. We may need additional financing to fund our operating expenses, including pre-commercial launch activities, manufacturing activities, marketing activities, 25 research and development and capital requirements. In addition, even if our products are successful, if our stock price does not exceed the applicable conversion price when our remaining convertible debt matures, we may need to pay the note holders in cash or restructure some or all of the debt. If we are unable to restructure the debt, we may not have enough cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and marketable securities available to repay the remaining debt. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms either to fund operating expenses or to repay the convertible debt. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, equity-linked securities or debt securities, the new equity securities may dilute the interests of our existing stockholders and the new debt securities may contain restrictive financial covenants. For example, in August 2009 and December 2009, we completed public offerings of 26,697,250 and 17,825,000 newly issued shares of common stock, respectively. Our need for additional funding will depend on many factors, including, without limitation: • the amount of revenue or cost sharing, if any, that we are able to obtain from our collaborations, any approved products, and the time and costs required to achieve those revenues; • the timing, scope and results of preclinical studies and clinical trials; • the size and complexity of our development programs; • the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; • the timing and costs of increasing our manufacturing capacity; • the costs of launching our products; • the costs of commercializing our products, including marketing, promotional and sales costs; • the commercial success of our products; • our stock price; • our ability to establish and maintain collaboration partnerships; • competing technological and market developments; • the costs involved in filing, prosecuting and enforcing patent claims; and • scientific progress in our research and development programs. If we are unable to raise additional funds, we may, among other things: • delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our research and development programs; • delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our commercialization activities; • lose rights under existing licenses; • relinquish more of, or all of, our rights to product candidates on less favorable terms than we would otherwise seek; and • be unable to operate as a going concern. Our short-term investments, marketable securities and restricted investments are subject to certain risks which could materially adversely affect our overall financial position. We invest our cash in accordance with an established internal policy and customarily in instruments which historically have been highly liquid and carried relatively low risk. However, the capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption. Over the past two years, the volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels. We maintain a significant portfolio of investments in short-term investments, marketable debt securities and restricted investments, which are recorded at fair value. Certain of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default by the issuer. To minimize our exposure to credit risk, we invest in securities with strong credit ratings and have established guidelines relative to diversification and maturity with the objective of maintaining safety of principal and liquidity. We do not invest in derivative financial instruments or auction rate securities, and we generally hold our investments in debt securities until maturity. In September 2008, 26 Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc. (“LBHI”) filed for bankruptcy and the debt securities issued by LBHI experienced a significant decline in market value, which caused an other-than-temporary impairment of our investment in LBHI. As a result, we recorded an impairment charge of $6.3 million during 2008. In recent years, certain financial instruments, including some of the securities in which we invest, have sustained downgrades in credit ratings and some high quality short-term investment securities have suffered illiquidity or events of default. Deterioration in the credit market may have an adverse effect on the fair value of our investment portfolio. Should any of our short-term investments, marketable securities or restricted investments lose significant value or have their liquidity impaired, it could materially and adversely affect our overall financial position by imperiling our ability to fund our operations and forcing us to seek additional financing sooner than we would otherwise. Such financing may not be available on commercially attractive terms or at all. Our insurance policies are expensive and protect us only from some business risks, which could leave us exposed to significant, uninsured liabilities. We do not carry insurance for all categories of risk that our business may encounter. We currently maintain general liability, property, auto, workers’ compensation, product liability, fiduciary and directors’ and officers’ insurance policies. We do not know, however, if we will be able to maintain existing insurance with adequate levels of coverage. For example, the premiums for our directors’ and officers’ insurance policy have increased in the past and may increase in the future, and this type of insurance may not be available on acceptable terms or at all in the future. Any significant uninsured liability may require us to pay substantial amounts, which would adversely affect our cash position and results of operations. We may be subject to product liability or other litigation, which could result in an inefficient allocation of our critical resources, delay the implementation of our business strategy and, if successful, materially and adversely harm our business and financial condition as a result of the costs of liabilities that may be imposed thereby. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims. If any of our product candidates harm people, or are alleged to be harmful, we may be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims brought against us by clinical trial participants, consumers, health care providers, corporate partners or others. We have product liability insurance covering our ongoing clinical trials and raxibacumab, but do not have insurance for any of our other commercial activities. If we are unable to obtain insurance at an acceptable cost or otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, we may be exposed to significant litigation costs and liabilities, which may materially and adversely affect our business and financial position. If we are sued for injuries allegedly caused by any of our product candidates, our litigation costs and liability could exceed our total assets and our ability to pay. In addition, we may from time to time become involved in various lawsuits and legal proceedings which arise in the ordinary course of our business. Any litigation to which we are subject could require significant involvement of our senior management and may divert management’s attention from our business and operations. Litigation costs or an adverse result in any litigation that may arise from time to time may adversely impact our operating results or financial condition. OTHER RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Many of our competitors have substantially greater capabilities and resources and may be able to develop and commercialize products before we do or develop generic drugs that are similar to our products. We face intense competition from a wide range of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as academic and research institutions and government agencies. Principal competitive factors in our industry include: • the quality and breadth of an organization’s technology; • the skill of an organization’s employees and ability to recruit and retain skilled employees; • an organization’s intellectual property portfolio; 27 • the range of capabilities, from target identification and validation to drug discovery and development to manufacturing and marketing; and • the availability of substantial capital resources to fund discovery, development and commercialization activities. Many large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have significantly larger intellectual property estates than we do, more substantial capital resources than we have, and greater capabilities and experience than we do in preclinical and clinical development, sales, marketing, manufacturing and regulatory affairs. We are aware of existing products and products in research or development by our competitors that address the diseases we are targeting. Any of these products may compete with our product candidates. Our competitors may succeed in developing their products before we do, obtaining approvals from the FDA or other regulatory agencies for their products more rapidly than we do, or developing products that are more effective than our products. These products or technologies might render our technology or drugs under development obsolete or noncompetitive. In addition, our albumin fusion protein product, ZALBIN, is designed to be a longer-acting version of existing products. The existing products in many cases have an established market that may make the introduction of ZALBIN more difficult. If our products are approved and marketed, we may also face risks from generic drug manufacturers. Legislation currently pending in the United States Congress and regulatory and legislative activity in other countries may make it easier for generic drug manufacturers to manufacture and sell in the United States biological drugs similar or identical to ZALBIN, BENLYSTA and raxibacumab which might affect the profitability or commercial viability of our products. If any of our product candidates for which we receive regulatory approval do not achieve broad market acceptance (including as a result of failing to differentiate our products from competitor products or as a result of failing to obtain reimbursement rates for our products that are competitive from the healthcare provider’s perspective), the revenues we generate from their sales will be limited and our business may not be profitable. Our success will depend in substantial part on the extent to which our products for which we obtain marketing approval from the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities are accepted by the medical community and reimbursed by third-party payors, including government payors. The degree of market acceptance will depend upon a number of factors, including, among other things: • our product’s perceived advantages over existing treatment methods (including relative convenience and ease of administration and prevalence and severity of any adverse events, including any unexpected adverse events of which we become aware after marketing approval); • claims or other information (including limitations or warnings) in our product’s approved labeling; • reimbursement and coverage policies of government and other third-party payors; • pricing and cost-effectiveness; • in the United States, the ability of group purchasing organizations, or GPOs (including distributors and other network providers), to sell our products to their constituencies; • the establishment and demonstration in the medical community of the safety and efficacy of our products and our ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy; • availability of alternative treatments; and • the prevalence of off-label substitution of biologically equivalent products. We cannot predict whether physicians, patients, healthcare insurers or maintenance organizations, or the medical community in general, will accept or utilize any of our products. If our products are approved but do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by these parties, we may not generate sufficient revenues from these 28 products to become or remain profitable. In addition, our efforts to educate the medical community and third-party payors regarding the benefits of our products may require significant resources and may never be successful. If the health care system or reimbursement policies change, the prices of our potential products may be lower than expected and our potential sales may decline. The levels of revenues and profitability of biopharmaceutical companies like ours may be affected by the continuing efforts of government and third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care through various means. For example, in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of therapeutic and other pharmaceutical products is subject to governmental control. In the United States, there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar governmental control. In addition, in the United States, a number of proposals have been made to reduce the regulatory burden of follow-on biologics, which could affect the prices and sales of our products in the future. Additional and broad health care proposals currently are being considered by the United States Congress. While we cannot predict whether any legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted, the adoption of such proposals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and profitability. In addition, in the United States and elsewhere, sales of therapeutic and other pharmaceutical products depend in part on the availability of reimbursement to the consumer from third-party payors, such as government and private insurance plans. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. We cannot assure you that any of our products will be considered cost effective or that reimbursement to the consumer will be available or will be sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a competitive and profitable basis. If we lose or are unable to attract key management or other personnel, we may experience delays in product development. We depend on our senior executive officers as well as other key personnel. If any key employee decides to terminate his or her employment with us, this termination could delay the commercialization of our products or prevent us from becoming profitable. Competition for qualified employees is intense among pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and the loss of qualified employees, or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional highly skilled employees required for the expansion of our activities, could hinder our ability to complete human studies successfully and develop marketable products. The reduction in scope of some programs in March 2009 included decreasing headcount. This reduction in headcount may adversely affect our ability to attract, retain and motivate current and new employees. We may be unable to fulfill the terms of our agreement with Hospira, Inc. and other agreements, if any, with potential customers for manufacturing process development and supply of selected biopharmaceutical products. We have entered into agreements for manufacturing process development, clinical and commercial supply of certain biopharmaceutical products, including an agreement with Hospira, Inc., and may enter into similar agreements with other potential customers. We may not be able to successfully manufacture products under the agreement with Hospira or under other agreements, if any. We have not yet manufactured any products approved for commercial use and, except for raxibacumab, have limited experience in manufacturing materials suitable for commercial use. We have limited experience manufacturing in a large-scale manufacturing facility built to increase our capacity for protein and antibody drug production. The FDA must inspect and license our facilities to determine compliance with cGMP requirements for commercial production. We may not be able to enter into additional agreements with other customers. Hospira or any future customer may decide to discontinue the products contemplated under the agreements, and therefore we may not receive revenue from these agreements. Because we depend on third parties to conduct many of our human studies, we may encounter delays in or lose some control over our efforts to develop products. We are dependent on third-party research organizations to conduct most of our human studies. We have engaged contract research organizations to manage our global Phase 3 clinical studies. If we are unable to obtain any necessary services on acceptable terms, we may not complete our product development efforts in a timely manner. If we rely on third parties for the management of these human studies, we may lose some control over these activities and become too dependent upon these parties. These third parties may not complete the activities on schedule. 29 RISKS RELATED TO OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMON STOCK Because our stock price has been and will likely continue to be highly volatile, the market price of our common stock may be lower or more volatile than you expected. Our stock price, like the stock prices of many other biotechnology companies, has been highly volatile. During the preceding twelve months, the closing price of our common stock has been as low as $0.48 per share and as high as $31.15 per share. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate widely because of: • future announcements about our company or our competitors, including the results of testing, clinical trials, technological innovations or new commercial products; • negative regulatory actions with respect to our potential products or regulatory approvals with respect to our competitors’ products; • changes in government regulations; • developments in our relationships with our collaboration partners; • developments affecting our collaboration partners; • announcements relating to health care reform and reimbursement levels for new drugs; • our failure to acquire or maintain proprietary rights to the gene sequences we discover or the products we develop; • litigation; and • public concern as to the safety of our products. The stock market has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market price for many emerging and biotechnology companies. These fluctuations have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the market price of our common stock to be lower or more volatile than you expected. The issuance and sale of shares underlying our outstanding convertible debt securities and options, as well as the sale of additional equity or equity-linked securities may materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We have used and may continue to use our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock to acquire technology, product rights or businesses, or for other purposes. Our authorized capital stock consists of 400,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share. As of December 31, 2009, we had 185,254,660 shares of common stock outstanding, including an aggregate of 44,522,250 shares issued in public offerings in August and December 2009. In addition, an aggregate of approximately 24,306,115 shares of our common stock are issuable upon conversion of our outstanding 2011 Notes and outstanding 2012 Notes at an applicable conversion price of $15.55 and $17.78 per share, respectively; 24,601,174 shares of our common stock are issuable upon the exercise of options outstanding as of December 31, 2009, having a weighted-average exercise price of $13.62 per share, including 4,352,003 stock options granted during the year ended December 31, 2009 with a weighted-average grant date fair value of $0.91 per share; and 205,737 shares of our common stock are issuable upon the vesting of restricted stock unit awards outstanding as of December 31, 2009. If we issue additional equity securities, including in exchange for our outstanding convertible debt, the price of our common stock may be materially and adversely affected and the holdings of our existing stockholders would be diluted. The issuance and sale of shares issuable upon conversion of our outstanding convertible debt securities and options or the sale of additional equity or equity-linked securities could materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. 30 Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage acquisition proposals, delay a change in control or prevent transactions that are in your best interests. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company that you as a stockholder may consider favorable and may be in your best interest. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that: • authorize the issuance of up to 20,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and discourage a takeover attempt; • limit who may call special meetings of stockholders; and • establish advance notice requirements for nomination of candidates for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholders’ meetings. 31 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 