ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There are a number of risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those that are indicated by forward-looking statements. Those factors include, without limitation, those listed below in addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should carefully consider these risk factors in evaluating our business because these risk factors may have a significant impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The risks described below are not the only risks we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently apparent to us, or risks that we currently consider immaterial, could also negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. COMMERCIAL RISKS Our near-term prospects are highly dependent on BENLYSTA, our lead product candidate. If we fail to obtain FDA and/or EMA approval for BENLYSTA or fail to successfully commercialize BENLYSTA, our results of operations and business will be materially and adversely affected and our stock price would likely decline. Our most advanced product candidate is BENLYSTA. The development program for BENLYSTA involved two large-scale, multi-center Phase 3 clinical trials, in addition to earlier Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials. In July 2009, we reported the results from the first of our two Phase 3 clinical trials for BENLYSTA. This trial was called BLISS-52. In BLISS-52, BENLYSTA met its primary efficacy endpoint. In November 2009, we reported the 52 week data from the second Phase 3 clinical trial for BENLYSTA. This trial was called BLISS-76. In BLISS-76, BENLYSTA at a dose of 10 mg/kg also met its primary efficacy endpoint. Although the primary efficacy endpoint of the BLISS-76 study was assessed after 52 weeks, we continued to collect additional data from this trial for an additional 24 weeks. In April 2010, we reported the results of the BLISS-76 trial for these additional weeks. At week 76 in the BLISS-76 trial, BENLYSTA plus standard of care showed higher response rates compared with placebo plus standard of care, but this difference was not statistically significant. We do not know what, if any, effect these 76-week results may have on our ability to obtain regulatory approval for BENLYSTA. In June 2010, we filed a BLA for BENLYSTA in the United States and our collaboration partner GSK submitted an MAA for BENLYSTA with the EMA. The Arthritis Advisory Committee of the U.S. FDA met on November 16, 2010 to consider the BENLYSTA BLA and voted 13-2 to recommend FDA approval. On December 3, 2010, the FDA extended the PDUFA target date for its priority review of the BLA from December 9, 2010 to March 10, 2011 and requested some additional information. We currently expect a decision by the EMA in the second half of 2011. Despite our determination that the results from the two BENLYSTA trials were positive and the affirmative vote for approval by the FDA Advisory Committee, FDA and EMA approval of BENLYSTA depends, among other things, on regulatory authorities finding the data from our clinical trials, our manufacturing protocol and controls and the composition of the product sufficient to support approval. We cannot offer any assurances or predict with any certainty that the FDA or EMA will grant marketing approval for BENLYSTA, or on the expected timeframes. Furthermore, regulatory approvals, even if obtained, may be limited to specific indications, limit the type of patients in which the drug may be used, or otherwise require specific warning or labeling language, any of which might reduce the commercial potential of BENLYSTA. Regulatory authorities are likely to condition BENLYSTA marketing approval on the conduct of specific post-marketing studies to further evaluate safety and efficacy, in either particular patient populations or general patient populations or both. The results of these studies, the discovery of previously unknown issues involving safety or efficacy or the failure to comply with post-approval regulatory requirements, including requirements with respect to manufacturing practices, reporting of adverse effects, advertising, promotion and marketing, may result in restrictions on the marketing of BENLYSTA or the withdrawal of BENLYSTA from the market. Even if we receive FDA or EMA approval, we might not be successful in commercializing BENLYSTA. Should we fail to obtain FDA and/or EMA approval for BENLYSTA or fail to successfully commercialize BENLYSTA upon approval, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected and the price of our common stock would likely decline. 15 If we are unable to commercialize BENLYSTA or other product candidates we develop, we may not be able to recover our investment in our research, product development, manufacturing and marketing efforts. We have made and are continuing to make substantial expenditures in advance of commercializing BENLYSTA and our other product candidates. We have invested significant time and resources to isolate and study genes and determine their functions. We devote substantial resources to developing proteins, antibodies and small molecules for the treatment of human disease. Before we can commercialize a product, we must rigorously test the product in the laboratory and complete extensive animal and human clinical studies. We are also devoting substantial resources to enhancing our manufacturing capabilities and to building our commercial supply inventories of BENLYSTA to support potential commercialization. We have and expect to continue to devote substantial resources to establish and maintain a marketing capability for BENLYSTA and any of our other products that are approved by the FDA or other regulatory authorities. These costs have increased as we near the potential launch of BENLYSTA. If BENLYSTA or other products we develop are not approved for commercial sale, we may be unable to recover the large investment we have made in research, development, manufacturing and marketing efforts, and our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We may be unable to successfully establish commercial manufacturing capability and may be unable to obtain required quantities of our product candidates for commercial use. We have not yet manufactured any products that have been approved for commercial use. Except for raxibacumab and quantities of BENLYSTA manufactured to build our commercial supply inventory of BENLYSTA in support of commercialization, we have limited experience in manufacturing materials suitable for commercial use. The FDA must determine that our facilities comply with cGMPrequirements for commercial production and license them accordingly. We may not successfully establish sufficient manufacturing capabilities or manufacture our products economically or in compliance with cGMPs and other regulatory requirements. For example, we believe that we have sufficient manufacturing capacity to launch BENLYSTA if it is approved by the FDA and/or EMA and to supply commercial quantities of BENLYSTA for the first two or three years following launch. In June 2010, we entered into a manufacturing agreement with Lonza Sales AG (“Lonza”) pursuant to which Lonza will manufacture additional commercial quantities of BENLYSTA. However, this additional manufacturing capacity may not be available for 18 months or longer, if ever, due, in part, to the time required to obtain regulatory approvals for the manufacture of BENLYSTA in Lonza’s facility. If Lonza’s facility fails to obtain regulatory approval in a timely manner or at all, we may not be able to build or procure additional capacity in the required timeframe to meet commercial demand, and our revenues may accordingly be limited from BENLYSTA. Our revenues from BENLYSTA also will be limited if the demand for BENLYSTA exceeds our capacity to supply BENLYSTA to patients. BENLYSTA is solely produced at our large-scale manufacturing facility in Rockville, Maryland and raxibacumab is solely produced at our small-scale manufacturing facility, which is also in Rockville, Maryland. Furthermore, the filling, finishing and packaging for both BENLYSTA and raxibacumab are solely performed by a single third party manufacturer. We cannot guarantee that one or more of these plants will not encounter problems, including but not limited to loss of power, equipment failure or viral or microbial contamination, which could adversely affect our ability to deliver adequate supply of one or more of these products to patients or customers. If we or our third-party manufacturers fail to comply in a significant way with regulatory requirements imposed on our manufacturing activities, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have previously engaged third-party manufacturers or utilized our collaboration partners’ manufacturing capabilities to manufacture product candidates and we expect to continue to do so in the future. If we use others to manufacture our products, we will depend on those parties to comply with cGMPs and other regulatory requirements and to deliver materials on a timely basis. In addition, because regulatory approval to manufacture a drug is generally site-specific, the FDA and other regulatory authorities will repeatedly inspect our manufacturing facilities and our current and future third-party manufacturers’ facilities for compliance with cGMPs. If we or our third-party manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may: issue warning letters; suspend or withdraw our regulatory approval for approved or in-market products; seize or detain products or recommend a product recall; refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed 16 by us; suspend any of our ongoing clinical trials; impose restrictions or obligations on our operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; close our facilities or those of our contract manufacturers; revoke previously granted drug approvals under certain circumstances; or impose civil or criminal penalties. Any of these actions could delay our development of products, the submission of these products for regulatory approval or result in insufficient product quantity to support commercial demand. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. Because we currently have only a limited marketing capability and in light of various factors, we may be unable to price or sell any of our products effectively. We can provide no assurance as to the price at which we may be able to sell any of our products, or that we will be able to price any of our products at a level that is consistent with other similar products. The prices for our products may be affected by various factors that could adversely affect our sales and profit margins, including economic analyses of the burden of the applicable disease, the perceived value of the product and third party reimbursement policies. We currently do not have any marketed products, although we have sold raxibacumab to the U.S. Government. If we receive approval for products that can be marketed, we intend to market the products either independently or together with collaborators or strategic partners. GSK and others have co-commercialization rights with respect to certain of our products. If we decide to market any products, either independently or together with partners, we will incur significant additional expenditures and commit significant additional management resources to establish sales forces. For any products that we market together with partners, we will rely, in whole or in part, on the marketing capabilities of those parties. We may also contract with third parties to market certain of our products. In building a sales force in anticipation of the approval and commercial launch of BENLYSTA, we may be unable to retain an adequate number of qualified sales representatives and may encounter difficulties in retaining third parties to provide sales, marketing or distribution resources. Ultimately, we and our partners may not be successful in marketing our products. If any product candidate for which we receive regulatory approval does not achieve broad market acceptance (including as a result of failing to differentiate our products from competitor products or as a result of failing to obtain reimbursement rates for our products that are competitive from the healthcare provider’s perspective), the revenues we generate from sales will be limited and our business may not be profitable. Our success will depend in substantial part on the extent to which our products for which we obtain marketing approval from the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities are accepted by the medical community and reimbursed by third-party payors, including government payors. The degree of market acceptance will depend upon a number of factors, including, among other things: • our product’s perceived advantages over existing treatment methods (including relative convenience and ease of administration and prevalence and severity of any adverse events, including any unexpected adverse events of which we become aware after marketing approval); • claims, limitations, warnings or other information in our product’s approved labeling; • reimbursement and coverage policies of government and other third-party payors; • pricing and cost-effectiveness; • in the United States, the ability of group purchasing organizations, or GPOs (including distributors and other network providers), to sell our products to their constituencies; • the establishment and demonstration in the medical community of the safety and efficacy of our products and our ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy; • availability of alternative treatments; and • the prevalence of off-label substitution of biologically equivalent products. 17 We cannot predict whether physicians, patients, healthcare insurers or maintenance organizations, or the medical community in general, will accept or utilize any of our products. Our efforts to educate the medical community and third-party payors regarding the benefits of our products may require significant resources and may not be successful in achieving our objectives. If our products are approved but do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by these parties, we may not generate sufficient revenues from these products to become or remain profitable. Changes in the health care system or reimbursement policies may result in a decline in our potential sales and a reduction in our expected revenue from our potential products. The levels of revenues and profitability of biopharmaceutical companies like ours may be affected by the continuing efforts of government and third-party payers to contain or reduce the costs of health care through various means. For example, in certain foreign markets pricing or profitability of therapeutic and other pharmaceutical products is subject to governmental control. In the United States, there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar governmental control. Recently enacted United States legislation, including implementing rules and regulations, instituted significant changes to the United States healthcare system that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and profitability. We cannot predict what effects, if any, this legislation might have on our company and our products as this legislation is implemented over the next few years, nor can we predict whether additional legislative or regulatory proposals may be adopted in the future. In addition, in the United States and elsewhere, sales of therapeutic and other pharmaceutical products depend in part on the availability of reimbursement to the consumer from third-party payers, such as government and private insurance plans. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Any reimbursement granted may not be maintained or limits on reimbursement available from third parties may reduce the demand for or negatively affect the price and profitability of those products. This would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to successfully commercialize our products and product candidates and the demand for our products depend, in part, on the extent to which reimbursement is available from such third-party payers. Uncertainty exists about the reimbursement status of newly approved biopharmaceutical products. Healthcare providers and third-party payers use coding systems to identify diagnoses, procedures, services, and treatments. Proper coding is an integral component to receiving appropriate reimbursement for the administration of BENLYSTA and related services. Most payors recognize the Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System (“HCPCS”) Level II national codes to identify and report drugs and the American Medical Association Current Procedural Terminology, or CPT, codes to report professional services (including drug administration). As a new drug, BENLYSTA has not been assigned a permanent, unique HCPCS code and there is a lack of clarity as to the appropriate CPT Code that should be used for its administration. We have applied for a permanent HCPCS code and intend to obtain guidance from The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”) regarding CPT Code usage. Until a permanent HCPCS code is assigned for BENLYSTA, physicians may bill using an unclassified (miscellaneous) code. Use of miscellaneous codes typically causes claims processing delays and may lead to lower payments to physicians or other providers and may cause physicians or other providers to delay use of BENLYSTA until a permanent code has been assigned. Under Medicare Part B, reimbursement for BENLYSTA will currently be computed based on manufacturer’s Average Sales Price (“ASP”). The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (“PPACA”) made changes to the statutory definition of ASP and CMS is in the process of interpreting and implementing those changes, which could result in lower payments for physician-administered drugs. If government and other third-party payers do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for BENLYSTA, its market acceptance may be materially adversely affected. 18 Because raxibacumab is a product whose current sole purchaser is the U.S. Government, the sale of raxibacumab faces risks in addition to the risks generally associated with the sale of biopharmaceutical products, including political considerations, government contracting requirements and government spending policies. Raxibacumab, a human monoclonal antibody developed for use in the treatment of anthrax disease, presents risks in addition to those associated with our other products. Numerous other companies and governmental agencies are known to be developing biodefense pharmaceuticals and related products to combat anthrax disease. These competitors may have financial or other resources greater than ours, they may have easier or preferred access to the likely distribution channels for biodefense products or they may develop products judged to have greater efficacy for biodefense. In addition, since the primary purchaser of biodefense products is the U.S. Government and its agencies, the success of raxibacumab will depend on government spending priorities, policies and pricing restrictions. In the case of the U.S. Government, executive or legislative action could attempt to impose production and pricing requirements on us. In the event of extreme urgency, the government might seek to compel us or we might ourselves choose to reallocate our production in ways that may not be economically beneficial to the company. We have entered into a two-phase contract to supply raxibacumab to the U.S. Government, which may be terminated by the U.S. Government at any time. Under the first phase of the contract, we supplied ten grams of raxibacumab to the HHS for comparative in vitro and in vivo testing. Under the second phase of the contract, the U.S. Government ordered 20,001 doses of raxibacumab for the U.S. Strategic National Stockpile (“SNS”) for use in the treatment of anthrax disease. We completed delivery of these doses and the U.S. Government accepted our deliveries. In July 2009, the U.S. Government agreed to purchase 45,000 additional doses. As of December 31, 2010, we have delivered approximately 20,000 doses of this second order. We, therefore, have future deliveries to make and ongoing obligations under the contract, including the obligation to seek FDA approval. In November 2009, we received a Complete Response Letter from the FDA related to our BLA for raxibacumab. In this letter, the FDA determined that it would not approve our BLA for raxibacumab in its present form and requested additional studies and data. Although the government has accepted shipment of raxibacumab subsequent to the receipt of the FDA’s Complete Response Letter, we cannot assure you that the government will continue to accept future shipments or place additional orders. We will continue to face risks related to the requirements of the contract. If we are unable to meet our obligations associated with this contract, the U.S. Government will not be required to make future payments related to that order. Although we have received U.S. Government approval for two orders of raxibacumab, we cannot assure you we will receive additional orders. COMPETITIVE RISKS Our competitors may develop and market products that are, or are perceived as, less expensive, more effective, safer, easier to administer or reach the market sooner. This may diminish or eliminate the commercial success of any products we may commercialize. The development and commercialization of biopharmaceutical products is highly competitive and subject to rapid technological advances. We will face competition with respect to all products we may develop or commercialize in the future from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies worldwide. We also expect to face increasing competition from governments, universities and other non-profit research organizations. These institutions carry out a significant amount of research and development in the field of biologic technologies, and they are increasingly aware of the commercial value of their findings. As a result, they are demanding greater patent and other proprietary rights, as well as licensing and future royalty revenues. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, research and development, intellectual property estates, regulatory, manufacturing, marketing, sales and other resources than we do. As a result, our competitors may succeed in developing their products before we do and obtaining approvals from the FDA or other regulatory agencies for their products more rapidly than we do. They may be able to devote greater resources to the development, manufacture, marketing and sale of their products, initiate or withstand substantial price competition 19 or otherwise more successfully market their products. These competing products or technologies might render our technology or product candidates under development noncompetitive, uneconomical or obsolete. Key factors affecting the success of any approved product include its efficacy, safety profile, drug interactions, method and frequency of administration, pricing, reimbursement and level of promotional activity relative to those of competing products. Competing products may provide greater therapeutic convenience or clinical or other benefits for a specific indication than our products, or may offer comparable performance at a lower cost. The introduction of more efficacious, safer, cheaper, or more convenient alternatives to our products could reduce our revenues and the value of our product development efforts. We are aware of existing products and products in research or development by others that address the diseases we are targeting. Any of these products may compete with our product candidates. For example, a number of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are currently developing products targeting the same types of indications that we are targeting with BENLYSTA, and some of these competitors’ products have entered clinical trials. If we successfully develop products but those products do not achieve and maintain market acceptance, our business will not be successful. Any reduction in demand for our products as a result of a competing product could lead to reduced revenues, reduced margins, reduced levels of profitability, and loss of market share for our products. These competitive pressures could adversely affect our business and operating results. If our products are approved and marketed, we may also face risks to our profitability and financial condition from generic drug or biosimilar manufacturers. The United States has recently enacted legislation establishing a regulatory pathway for follow-on biologics, also known as biosimilars. This and similar regulatory and legislative activity in other countries may make it easier for generic drug manufacturers to manufacture and sell biological drugs similar or identical to BENLYSTA and raxibacumab which might affect the profitability or commercial viability of our products. An accelerated route to market for generic versions of small molecule drugs was established in the United States with the passage of the Hatch-Waxman Amendments in 1984, which also provides five years of exclusivity for small molecule drugs with additional exclusivity under certain circumstances. The passage of the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act (“BPCIA”) in March 2010 established a similar pathway for FDA approval of a follow-on biologic that provides twelve years of exclusivity for the original biologic and an additional six month exclusivity period if certain pediatric studies are conducted. The European Medicines Agency has issued guidelines for approving products through an abbreviated pathway under which more than ten biosimilars have been approved. European legislation provides ten years of exclusivity for original drugs, including biologics, and an additional one year of exclusivity for obtaining marketing approval for certain additional indications. If a generic or biosimilar version of one of our products were approved, it could have a material adverse effect on the sales and gross profits of the product and adversely affect our business and operating results. PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT RISKS Our product development efforts depend on new technologies, which may not prove successful. Our development of new products depends on the use of cutting-edge, recently discovered technologies that may never have been successfully utilized in existing commercial products. As a result, our product development efforts involve risks of failure inherent in the use of innovative and unproven technologies and the risks associated with drug development generally. These risks include the possibility that: • these technologies or any or all of the molecules based on these technologies may be ineffective or toxic and, therefore fail to receive or retain necessary regulatory clearances; • the products, even if safe and effective, may be difficult to manufacture on a large scale or uneconomical to market; • proprietary rights of third parties may prevent us or our collaborators from exploiting technologies or marketing products; and • third parties may market superior or equivalent products. 20 We have limited experience in developing and commercializing products, and we may be unsuccessful in our efforts to do so. Although we are conducting human studies with respect to a number of products, we may not be successful in developing or commercializing these or other products. Our ability to develop and commercialize products based on proteins, antibodies and small molecules will depend on our abilities to: • successfully complete laboratory testing and human studies; • obtain and maintain necessary intellectual property rights to our products; • obtain and maintain necessary regulatory approvals related to the efficacy and safety of our products; • maintain production facilities meeting all regulatory requirements or enter into arrangements with third parties to manufacture our products on our behalf; and • deploy sales and marketing resources appropriately, efficiently and effectively or enter into arrangements with third parties to provide these functions. We are currently a late-stage development company, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to develop products that will become commercially successful or that we will achieve profitability from such products. We will continue to incur substantial expenditures relating to research, development, clinical studies and manufacturing efforts. Depending on the stage of development, our products may require significant further research, development, testing and regulatory approvals. Even if regulatory approval is obtained for the commercial sale of a product, it could take considerable time following approval, if ever, before we are likely to receive continuing revenue from product sales or substantial royalty payments. Until such time, we expect to continue to incur losses and we cannot assure you that we will ever become profitable on a sustainable basis. We are continually evaluating our business strategy and may modify this strategy in light of developments in our business and other factors. Our ability to discover and develop new products will depend on our internal research capabilities and our ability to acquire products. Although we continue to conduct research and development activities on products and have increased our activities in this area, our limited resources may not be sufficient to discover and develop new drug candidates. We continue to evaluate our business strategy and, as a result, may modify our strategy in the future. In this regard, we may, from time to time, focus our product development efforts on different products or may delay or halt the development of various products, as we did with ZALBIN in 2010. In addition, as a result of changes in our strategy, we may also change or refocus our existing drug discovery, development, commercialization and manufacturing activities. This could require changes in our facilities and personnel and the restructuring of various financial arrangements. We cannot assure you that any product development changes that we implement will be successful. Clinical trials for our products are expensive and protracted and their outcome is uncertain, and we must invest substantial amounts of time and money that may not yield viable products. Conducting clinical trials is a lengthy, time-consuming and expensive process. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any product we must demonstrate through laboratory, animal and human studies that the product is both effective and safe for use in humans. We will incur substantial expense and devote a significant amount of time to conducting ongoing trials and initiating new trials. Before clinical testing in humans can begin, a drug must be subject to rigorous preclinical testing and documentation. This documentation must be reviewed by the FDA as part of an Investigational New Drug Application (“IND”). Data obtained from tests are susceptible to varying interpretations which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Furthermore, regulatory authorities may refuse or delay approval as a result of many factors, including changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development. Even if an IND is 21 approved, preclinical studies do not predict clinical success. Many potential drugs have shown promising results in early testing but subsequently failed to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. Completion of clinical trials may take many years. The time required varies substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the product candidate. The progress of clinical trials is monitored by both the FDA and independent data monitoring committees which may require the modification, suspension or termination of a trial if it is determined to present excessive risks to patients. Our rate of commencement and completion of clinical trials may be delayed by many factors, including: • our inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of materials for use in clinical trials; • unavailability or variability in the number and types of patients for each study; • difficulty in maintaining contact with patients after treatment, resulting in incomplete data; • safety issues or side effects; • ineffectiveness of products during the clinical trials; or • government or regulatory delays. Data obtained from our clinical trials may not be sufficient to support an application for regulatory approval without further studies. Studies conducted by us or by third parties on our behalf may not demonstrate sufficient effectiveness and safety to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for these or any other potential products. For example, we have submitted BLAs to the FDA for raxibacumab, ZALBIN and BENLYSTA, but the studies we have conducted to date may not be sufficient to obtain FDA approval. For example, we had been developing ZALBIN for many years. In 2010, we and our collaboration partner Novartis decided to end further development of ZALBIN in anticipation of a Complete Response Letter from the FDA in which we expected the FDA to conclude that our existing ZALBIN data would not support approval of our BLA. Additionally, in November 2009, we received a Complete Response Letter from the FDA related to our BLA for raxibacumab. In this letter, the FDA determined that it could not approve the BLA in its present form and requested additional studies and data that would be needed prior to the FDA making a decision as to whether or not to approve the raxibacumab BLA. For raxibacumab, we may not be able to complete the requested studies or to generate the required data in a timely manner, if at all. If we do not complete the additional studies and generate the additional data within the time required by the FDA, we may be required to withdraw our existing BLA and resubmit our BLA after completion of such studies. This will start a new review cycle. Even if we can complete such studies and generate such data, the studies and data may not be sufficient for FDA approval. For BENLYSTA, we have completed two large-scale, multi-center Phase 3 clinical trials, in addition to earlier Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials. See our first risk factor under the heading “Commercial Risks” for additional discussion regarding the data from these trials. In June 2010, we filed a BLA in the United States and our collaboration partner GSK submitted a Marketing Authorization Application with the European Medicines Agency. The FDA has assigned a PDUFA target date of March 10, 2011 and requested some additional information. We currently expect a decision by the EMA in the second half of 2011. We may not be able to obtain FDA, EMA or other regulatory approval of BENLYSTA. Even if FDA, EMA or other regulatory approval is obtained, it may be limited to specific indications, limit the type of patients in which the drug may be used, or otherwise require specific warnings or labeling language, any of which might reduce the commercial potential of BENLYSTA. We depend on third parties to conduct many of our clinical trials, and we may encounter delays in or lose some control over our efforts to develop products. We are dependent on third-party research organizations to enroll qualified patients and conduct, supervise and monitor many of our clinical trials. Our reliance on these service providers does not relieve us of our regulatory responsibilities, including ensuring that our clinical trials are conducted in accordance with good clinical practice regulations and the plan and protocols contained in the relevant regulatory application. In addition, these 22 organizations may not complete activities on schedule or may not conduct our preclinical studies or clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our trial design. If we are unable to obtain any necessary services on acceptable terms or if these service providers do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, our efforts to obtain regulatory approvals for our product candidates may be delayed or prevented. RISK FROM COLLABORATION RELATIONSHIPS AND STRATEGIC ACQUISITIONS Our plan to use collaborations to leverage our capabilities may not be successful if we are unable to integrate our partners’ capabilities with our operations or if our partners’ capabilities do not meet our expectations. As part of our strategy, we intend to continue to evaluate strategic partnership opportunities. In order for our future collaboration efforts to be successful, we must first identify partners whose capabilities complement and integrate well with ours. Technologies to which we gain access may prove ineffective or unsafe. Our current agreements that grant us access to such technology may expire and may not be renewable or could be terminated if we or our partners do not meet our obligations. These agreements are subject to differing interpretations and we and our partners may not agree on the appropriate interpretation of specific requirements. In addition, our partners, among other things, may prove difficult to work with, less skilled than we originally expected or unable to satisfy their financial commitments to us. Past collaborative successes are no assurance of potential future success. We currently depend on our collaboration partners for substantial revenue. We may not become profitable on a sustainable basis if we cannot increase the revenue from our collaboration partners or other sources. We have received substantial revenue from payments made under collaboration agreements with Novartis and GSK, and to a lesser extent, other agreements. Our agreement with Novartis has been terminated. The research term of our initial GSK collaboration agreement and many of our other collaboration agreements expired in 2001. None of the research terms of these collaboration agreements was renewed and we may not be able to enter into additional collaboration agreements. While our partners under our initial GSK collaboration agreement have informed us that they have been pursuing research programs involving different genes for the creation of small molecule, protein and antibody drugs, we cannot assure you that any of these programs will be continued or will result in any approved drugs. If our partners are unsuccessful in such research and development efforts, we will not receive any revenue from the development or commercialization of these assets. Under our present collaboration agreements, we are entitled to certain development and commercialization payments based on our development of the applicable product or certain milestone and royalty payments based on our partners’ development of the applicable product. We may not receive payments under these agreements if we or our collaborators fail to: • develop marketable products; • obtain regulatory approvals for products; or • successfully market products. Further, circumstances could arise under which one or more of our collaboration partners may allege that we breached our agreement with them and, accordingly, seek to terminate our relationship with them. Our collaboration partners may also terminate these agreements without cause or if competent scientific evidence or safety risks do not justify moving the applicable product forward. If any one of these agreements terminates, this could adversely affect our ability to commercialize our products and harm our business. If one of our collaborators pursues a product that competes with our products, there could be a conflict of interest and we may not receive expected milestone or royalty payments. Each of our collaborators is developing a variety of products, some with other partners. Our collaborators may pursue existing or alternative technologies to develop drugs targeted at the same diseases instead of using our licensed technology to develop products in collaboration with us. Our collaborators may also develop products that 23 are similar to or compete with products they are developing in collaboration with us. If our collaborators pursue these other products instead of our products, we may not receive milestone or royalty payments. Our efforts to acquire other biotechnology companies or in-license and develop additional product candidates may not be successful, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business strategy includes the acquisition of other biotechnology companies or in-license of additional product candidates to complement and supplement our existing product pipeline, and we may acquire such companies and in-license additional product candidates that have demonstrated positive pre-clinical and/or clinical data. We have certain criteria by which we assess any acquisition or in-license and we may not be successful in identifying, effectively evaluating, acquiring or in-licensing, and developing additional product candidates, or on acceptable terms. In addition, product in-licensing involves inherent risks, including uncertainties due to matters that may affect the successful development or commercialization of the in-licensed product as well as the possibility of contractual disagreements with regard to terms such as patent rights, license scope or termination rights. Competition for attractive product opportunities is intense and may require us to devote substantial resources, both managerial and financial, to an opportunity that may not result in a successfully developed, or commercialized, product. Moreover, the cost of acquiring other companies or in-licensing product candidates could be substantial and in order to acquire companies or new products we may need to raise additional financing, which if it involves the issuance of additional shares of our common stock would dilute existing stockholders. If we are unsuccessful in our efforts to acquire other companies or in-license and develop additional product candidates, or if we acquire or license unproductive assets, it could have a material adverse effect on the growth of our business. In order to achieve the anticipated benefits of an acquisition, we must integrate the acquired company’s business, technology and employees in an efficient and effective manner. The successful combination of companies in a rapidly changing biotechnology industry may be more difficult to accomplish than in other industries. The combination of two companies requires, among other things, integration of the companies’ respective technologies and research and development efforts. We cannot assure you that this integration will be accomplished smoothly or successfully. The difficulties of integration may be increased by any need to coordinate geographically separated organizations and address differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies. The integration of certain operations will require the dedication of management resources and, accordingly, may temporarily distract attention from the day-to-day operations of the combined companies. The business of the combined companies may also be disrupted by employee retention uncertainty and lack of focus during integration. The inability of management to integrate successfully the operations of the two companies, in particular, the integration and retention of key personnel, or the inability to integrate successfully two technology platforms, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. REGULATORY RISKS Because we are subject to extensive and changing government regulatory requirements, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval of our products in a timely manner, if at all. Regulations in the United States and other countries have a significant impact on our research, product development and manufacturing activities and will be a significant factor in the marketing of our products. All of our products require regulatory approval prior to commercialization. In particular, our products are subject to rigorous preclinical and clinical testing and other premarket approval requirements by the FDA and similar regulatory authorities in other regions, such as Europe and Asia. Various statutes and regulations also govern or influence the manufacturing, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping and marketing of our products. The lengthy process of seeking these approvals, and the subsequent compliance with applicable statutes and regulations, require the expenditure of substantial resources. Any failure by us to obtain, or any delay in obtaining, regulatory approvals could materially adversely affect our ability to commercialize our products in a timely manner, or at all. United States Regulatory Approval. Before a product can be marketed in the United States, the results of the preclinical and clinical testing must be submitted to the FDA for approval. This submission will be either a new drug application (“NDA”) or a biologics license application (“BLA”), depending on the type of drug. In responding to an application, the FDA may grant marketing approval, request additional information or deny the application if it 24 determines that the application does not provide an adequate basis for approval. We cannot assure you that any approval required by the FDA will be obtained on a timely basis, or at all. In June 2010 we filed a BLA with the FDA for BENLYSTA. The Arthritis Advisory Committee of the FDA met on November 16, 2010 to consider the BENLYSTA BLA and voted 13-2 to recommend FDA approval. On December 3, 2010, the FDA extended the PDUFA target date for its priority review of the BLA from December 9, 2010 to March 10, 2011 and requested some additional information. Even with the positive recommendation of the Advisory Committee, the FDA may determine that our BLA is insufficient to support marketing approval or may deny our BLA, either of which would materially adversely affect our results of operations and business. Furthermore, regulatory approvals, even if obtained, may be limited to specific indications, limit the type of patients in which the drug may be used, or otherwise require specific warning or labeling language, any of which might reduce the commercial potential of BENLYSTA and materially adversely affect our results of operations and business. The FDA may condition marketing approval on the conduct of specific post-marketing studies to further evaluate safety and efficacy, including in particular patient populations. Rigorous and extensive FDA regulation of pharmaceutical products continues after approval, particularly with respect to compliance with cGMPs, reporting of adverse effects, advertising, promotion and marketing. Discovery of previously unknown problems or failure to comply with the applicable regulatory requirements may result in restrictions on the marketing of a product or withdrawal of the product from the market as well as possible civil or criminal sanctions, any of which could materially adversely affect our business. In addition, such post-marketing studies may be expensive, time-consuming and difficult to complete in a timely fashion, any of which may limit our ability to develop other indications of existing products as well as indications for new products. Foreign Regulatory Approvals. We must obtain regulatory approval by governmental agencies in other countries prior to commercialization of our products in those countries. Foreign regulatory systems may be rigorous, costly and uncertain. In June 2010, our collaboration partner GSK submitted an MAA for BENLYSTA with the European Medicines Agency. We currently expect a decision by the EMA in the second half of 2011, but can provide no assurance that the EMA will grant regulatory approval for BENLYSTA on such timeframe, if at all. In addition, regulatory approval, even if obtained, may be limited to specific indications, limit the type of patients in which the drug may be used, or otherwise require specific warning or labeling language, any of which might reduce the commercial potential of BENLYSTA. To date, neither we nor any of our collaboration partners have received marketing approval for any product candidate resulting from our research and development efforts. Because we may never be able to obtain any such approval, it is possible that we may not be able to generate any product revenue other than with respect to raxibacumab. Although we have active BLAs for two of our product candidates (raxibacumab and BENLYSTA), we cannot assure you that these products will receive marketing approval. It is possible that we will not receive FDA marketing approval for any of our products. All products being developed by our collaboration partners will also require additional research and development, preclinical studies and extensive clinical trials and regulatory approval prior to any commercial sales. In some cases, the length of time that it takes for our collaboration partners to achieve various regulatory approval milestones may affect the payments that we are eligible to receive under our collaboration agreements. We and our collaboration partners may need to successfully address a number of technical challenges in order to complete development of our products. Moreover, these products may not prove effective in treating any disease or may prove to have undesirable or unintended side effects, toxicities or other characteristics that may preclude obtaining regulatory approval or prevent or limit commercial use. If we receive marketing approval for BENLYSTA but are unable to expand label usage of BENLYSTA, we may not recognize the full value of the product and there may be adverse effects on our expected financial and operating results. BENLYSTA is a human monoclonal antibody that recognizes and inhibits the biological activity of B-lymphocyte stimulator, or BLyS, and is being developed as a potential treatment for SLE. If the FDA or other regulatory agencies approve BENLYSTA for the treatment of SLE, we and our partner intend to conduct new 25 clinical trials for additional approved, or labeled uses, of BENLYSTA, such as vasculitis, post-renal transplant and other autoimmune indications and seek expansion of the labeled uses in the U.S. and in other countries. However, we may be unable to obtain approval for such label expansion, in full or in part. If we are not able to obtain approval for expansion of the labeled uses for BENLYSTA, sales of BENLYSTA may be limited. We are subject to environmental, health and safety laws that may restrict us from conducting our business in the most economically advantageous manner. We are subject to various laws and regulations relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices, the experimental use of animals, emissions and wastewater discharges, and the use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances used in connection with our research, including radioactive compounds and infectious disease agents. We also cannot accurately predict the extent that regulations that might result from any future legislative or administrative action might affect our business. Any of these laws or regulations could cause us to incur additional expense or restrict our operations. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RISKS If our patent applications do not result in issued patents or if patent laws or the interpretation of patent laws change, our competitors may be able to obtain rights to and commercialize our discoveries. Our pending patent applications, including those covering full-length genes and their corresponding proteins, may not result in the issuance of any patents. Our applications may not be sufficient to meet the statutory requirements for patentability in all cases or may be subject to challenge if they do issue. Important legal issues remain to be resolved as to the extent and scope of available patent protection for biotechnology products and processes in the United States and other important markets outside the United States, such as Europe and Japan. For example, a recent U.S. district court decision involving Myriad Genetics expressed concerns regarding the patentability of isolated human genes and gene-based diagnostic methods; this case is on appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. In addition, the United States Congress is considering significant changes to U.S. intellectual property laws that could affect the extent and scope of existing protections for biotechnology products and processes. Foreign markets may not provide the same level of patent protection as provided under the U.S. patent system. We expect that litigation or administrative proceedings will likely be necessary to determine the validity and scope of certain of our and others’ proprietary rights. We are currently involved in a number of litigation and administrative proceedings relating to the scope of protection of our patents and those of others in the United States and the rest of the world. On January 25, 2011, HGS filed suit against Genentech, Inc., and City of Hope in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware seeking a ruling that US Patent No. 6,331,415 (the “Cabilly II Patent”) is invalid, unenforceable, and not infringed by BENLYSTA. In addition, in a paper filed with the United States District Court for the Central District of California on January 28, 2011, Genentech sought leave to add BENLYSTA to an ongoing litigation between GSK and Genentech in that court related to GSK’s product ARZERRAtm (ofatumumab). We have also been involved in a number of interference proceedings brought by the United States Patent and Trademark Office (“PTO”) and may be involved in additional interference proceedings in the future. These proceedings determine the priority of inventions and, thus, the right to a patent for technology in the U.S. We are also involved in proceedings in connection with foreign patent filings, including opposition and revocation proceedings, and may be involved in other such proceedings in the future. For example, we are involved in European opposition proceedings regarding an issued patent of Biogen Idec that HGS and GSK have licensed. In this opposition, the European Patent Office (“EPO”) found Biogen Idec’s claims to a method of treating autoimmune diseases using an antibody to BLyS (such as BENLYSTA), to be valid. Merck Serono SA has appealed this decision to an EPO Technical Board of Appeal. A hearing is expected in late 2011. We are also involved in a revocation proceeding brought by Eli Lilly and Company with respect to our United Kingdom (“UK”) patent related to BLyS compositions, including antibodies. Although an EPO Technical Board of Appeal held that the corresponding European patent was valid, the UK Court of Appeal disagreed and upheld a lower UK court’s ruling that the UK patent was invalid. The UK Supreme Court granted HGS permission to appeal this decision. The appeal is expected to be heard in July 2011. 26 In addition, Genentech, Inc. opposed our European patent related to products based on TRAIL Receptor 1 (such as HGS-ETR1). On October 5, 2010, the Opposition Division of the EPO upheld our patent; no appeal was filed by the final deadline. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in any of these proceedings. Moreover, any such litigation or proceeding may result in a significant commitment of resources in the future and could force us to do one or more of the following: cease selling or using any of our products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property, which would adversely affect our revenue; obtain a license from the holder of the intellectual property right alleged to have been infringed, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; and redesign our products to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may be time-consuming or impossible to do. In addition, such litigation or proceeding may allow others to use our discoveries or develop or commercialize our products. Changes in, or different interpretations of, patent laws in the United States and other countries may result in patent laws that allow others to use our discoveries or develop and commercialize our products or prevent us from using or commercializing our discoveries and products. We cannot assure you that the patents we obtain or the unpatented technology we hold will afford us significant commercial protection. If others file patent applications or obtain patents similar to ours, then the United States Patent and Trademark Office may deny our patent applications, or others may restrict the use of our discoveries. We are aware that others, including universities, government agencies and companies working in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical fields, have filed patent applications and have been granted patents in the United States and in other countries that cover subject matter potentially useful or necessary to our business. Some of these patents and patent applications claim only specific products or methods of making products, while others claim more general processes or techniques useful in the discovery and manufacture of a variety of products. The risk of third parties obtaining additional patents and filing patent applications will continue to increase as the biotechnology industry expands. We cannot predict the ultimate scope and validity of existing patents and patents that may be granted to third parties, nor can we predict the extent to which we may wish or be required to obtain licenses to such patents, or the availability and cost of acquiring such licenses. To the extent that licenses are required, the owners of the patents could bring legal actions against us to claim damages or to stop our manufacturing and marketing of the affected products. We believe that there will continue to be significant litigation in our industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Such litigation could consume a substantial portion of our resources. Because issued patents may not fully protect our discoveries, our competitors may be able to commercialize products similar to those covered by our issued patents. Issued patents may not provide commercially meaningful protection against competitors and may not provide us with competitive advantages. Other parties may challenge our patents or design around our issued patents or develop products providing effects similar to our products. In addition, others may discover uses for genes, proteins or antibodies other than those uses covered in our patents, and these other uses may be separately patentable. The holder of a patent covering the use of a gene, protein or antibody for which we have a patent claim could exclude us from selling a product for a use covered by its patent. We rely on our collaboration partners to seek patent protection for the products they develop based on our research. A significant portion of our future revenue may be derived from royalty payments from our collaboration partners. These partners face patent protection issues similar to those that we and other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies face. As a result, we cannot assure you that any product developed by our collaboration partners will be patentable, and therefore, revenue from any such product may be limited, which would reduce the amount of any royalty payments. We also rely on our collaboration partners to effectively prosecute their patent applications. Their failure to obtain or protect necessary patents could also result in a loss of royalty revenue to us. 27 If we are unable to protect our trade secrets, others may be able to use our secrets to compete more effectively. We may not be able to meaningfully protect our trade secrets. We rely on trade secret protection to protect our confidential and proprietary information. We believe we have acquired or developed proprietary procedures and materials for the production of proteins and antibodies. We have not sought patent protection for these procedures. While we have entered into confidentiality agreements with employees and collaborators, we may not be able to prevent their disclosure of these data or materials. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent information and processes. Other parties may seek to cancel or revoke our trademarks and/or restrict the use of our trademarks. Our trademarks, including BENLYSTA, are important to us and are generally covered by trademark applications or registrations in the United States and in other countries. Trademark protection varies in accordance with local law, and continues in some countries for as long as the mark is used and in other countries for as long as the mark is registered. Trademark registrations are generally for fixed but renewable terms. Our trademark applications may not be sufficient to meet the statutory requirements for registration in all cases or may be subject to challenge if they are registered. Other parties may seek to cancel or revoke our trademarks and/or restrict the use of our trademarks through litigation or administrative proceedings in both the United States and in the rest of the world. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in any such proceedings. Moreover, any such litigation or proceeding may require us to modify our trademarks or rebrand our products to avoid infringing the trademark rights of third parties This may be time-consuming and could adversely affect our revenue. FINANCIAL AND MARKET RISKS Because of our substantial indebtedness and lease obligations, we may be unable to adjust our strategy to meet changing conditions in the future. As of December 31, 2010, we had convertible subordinated debt of $372.9 million ($403.8 million on a face value basis) and a long-term lease financing for our large-scale manufacturing facility of $250.5 million. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 we made cash interest payments on our convertible subordinated debt of $9.1 million. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 we made cash payments on our long-term lease financing of $24.5 million. In addition, we have operating leases, primarily our long-term operating lease for our headquarters, for which we made cash payments of $20.9 million during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010. Our substantial debt and long-term lease obligations will have several important consequences for our future operations. For instance: • payments of interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness and our long-term lease obligations will be substantial and may exceed then current income and available cash; • we may be unable to obtain additional future financing for marketing efforts, continued clinical trials, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes; • we may be unable to withstand changing competitive pressures, economic conditions and governmental regulations; and • we may be unable to make acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of significant business opportunities that may arise. We may not have adequate financial resources available to repay our Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2011 (“2011 Notes”) and our Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2012 (“2012 Notes”) at maturity. As of December 31, 2010, we had $403.8 million in face value of convertible subordinated debt outstanding, with $197.1 million and $206.7 million due in 2011 and 2012, respectively. Those notes are convertible into our common stock at conversion prices of approximately $15.55 and $17.78 per share, respectively. If our stock price does not exceed the applicable conversion price of those notes, upon maturity, we may need to pay the note holders in cash or restructure some or all of the debt. Our recent stock price has been above the conversion price and we believe we currently have sufficient unrestricted cash should note holders seek cash payment upon maturity. 28 However, since there are other potential uses for these funds and it may be one or more years, if ever, before we are likely to generate significant positive cash flow from operations, we may not have enough cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and marketable securities available to repay our debt upon maturity. To become a successful biopharmaceutical company, we may need additional funding. If we do not obtain this funding on acceptable terms, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to repay our debt, to continue our research and development efforts or to launch and successfully market our products. We continue to expend substantial funds on our research and development programs and human studies on current and future product candidates. We also expect to expend significant funds to support pre-launch and commercial marketing activities, to acquire other biotechnology companies or in-license and develop additional product candidates, and to enhance our manufacturing capacity. We may need additional financing to fund these activities. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms, if at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, equity-linked securities or debt securities, the new equity securities may dilute the interests of our existing stockholders and the new debt securities may contain restrictive financial covenants. Our need for additional funding will depend on many factors, including, without limitation: • the amount of revenue or cost sharing, if any, that we are able to obtain from our collaborations, any approved products, and the time and costs required to achieve those revenues; • the timing, scope and results of preclinical studies and clinical trials; • the size and complexity of our development programs; • the timing and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; • the timing and costs of increasing our manufacturing capacity; • the costs of commercializing our products, including marketing, promotional and sales costs; • the commercial success of our products; • our stock price; • our ability to establish and maintain collaboration partnerships; • competing technological and market developments; • the costs involved in filing, prosecuting, enforcing and defending patent claims; • the costs involved in bringing and defending against litigation; and • scientific progress in our research and development programs. If we are unable to raise additional funds, we may, among other things: • delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our research and development programs; • delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our commercialization activities; • lose rights under existing licenses; • relinquish more of, or all of, our rights to product candidates on less favorable terms than we would otherwise seek; and • be unable to operate as a going concern. Our short-term investments, marketable securities and restricted investments are subject to certain risks that could materially adversely affect our overall financial position. We invest our cash in accordance with an established internal policy and customarily in instruments which historically have been highly liquid and carried relatively low risk. However, the capital and credit markets have experienced extreme volatility and disruption. Over the past several years, the volatility and disruption reached unprecedented levels. We maintain a significant portfolio of investments in short-term investments, marketable debt 29 securities and restricted investments, which are recorded at fair value. Certain of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default by the issuer. To seek to minimize our exposure to credit risk, we invest in securities with strong credit ratings and have established guidelines relative to diversification and maturity with the objective of maintaining safety of principal and liquidity. We do not invest in derivative financial instruments or auction rate securities, and we generally hold our investments in debt securities until maturity. In recent years, certain financial instruments, including some of the securities in which we have invested, have sustained downgrades in credit ratings and some high quality short-term investment securities have suffered illiquidity or events of default. Deterioration in the credit market may have an adverse effect on the fair value of our investment portfolio. Should any of our short-term investments, marketable securities or restricted investments lose significant value or have their liquidity impaired, it could materially and adversely affect our overall financial position by imperiling our ability to fund our operations and forcing us to seek additional financing sooner than we would otherwise. Such financing may not be available on commercially attractive terms, or at all. We have only a limited amount of insurance that protects us only from certain business risks, which could leave us exposed to significant, uninsured liabilities. We do not carry insurance for all categories of risk that our business may encounter. We currently maintain general liability, property, auto, workers’ compensation, product liability, fiduciary and directors’ and officers’ insurance policies. Potential risks and liabilities may not be covered by our insurance policies, insurers may dispute coverage, or the amount of insurance may not be enough to cover claims and liabilities. We may be unable to maintain existing insurance, obtain new coverage, or increase limits in the future, and may be unable to do so on favorable terms. Any significant uninsured liability may require us to pay substantial amounts, which would adversely affect our cash position and results of operations. We may be subject to product liability or other litigation that could result in a diminution or inefficient allocation of our critical resources, delay the implementation of our business strategy, affect our reputation and, if successful, materially and adversely harm our business and financial condition. We face an inherent risk of product liability claims in the event that the use of our products caused, or is alleged to have caused, adverse side effects (including death) or drug interactions. It may be that we will not understand these risks until the drug has been administered to patients for some time. We may be subject to product liability claims that can be costly to defend and may result in large judgments or settlements against us. Any insurance we obtain may not provide adequate coverage against any such asserted claims and we may therefore be exposed to significant litigation costs and liabilities, which could exceed our total assets and our ability to pay. In addition, negative publicity associated with any claims, regardless of their merit, may decrease the future demand for our products. We may from time to time become involved in various lawsuits and legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business. Any litigation to which we are subject could require significant involvement of our senior management and may divert management’s attention from our business and operations. Litigation costs or an adverse result in any litigation that may arise from time to time may materially adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. OTHER BUSINESS RISKS Our success is dependent on our continued ability to attract, motivate and retain key personnel. If we lose or are unable to attract key management or other personnel, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Much of our progress to date has resulted from the particular scientific, technical and management skills of personnel available to us. Competition for qualified employees is intense among pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Part of being able to attract, motivate and retain key personnel is our ability to offer a competitive compensation package, including cash bonus and equity incentive awards. Our ability to offer attractive equity incentive awards in the future may be limited or nonexistent if we are unable to increase the number of shares available under our stock incentive plan. If we are unable to provide a compensation package that is competitive within our industry, or otherwise successfully compete to attract, motivate and retain qualified management and 30 other highly skilled employees, this could materially adversely affect the implementation of our business strategy, delay the commercialization of our products or prevent us from becoming profitable. We may be unable to fulfill the terms of our contract manufacturing agreements with our customers for manufacturing process development and supply of selected biopharmaceutical products. To more fully utilize our existing manufacturing capacity, we have entered into agreements with customers pursuant to which we have agreed to develop manufacturing processes for, and manufacture clinical and commercial supplies of, certain biopharmaceutical products, and may enter into similar agreements with other potential customers in the future. Our receipt of revenue under these agreements is dependent on our ability to successfully manufacture such products. If we are unable to develop a validated manufacturing process for such products or are otherwise unable to deliver product that meets the manufacturing specifications, we may not receive any additional payments under such agreements. Even if successful, we may not be able to enter into additional agreements with other customers. Any current or future customers may decide to discontinue the products contemplated under these agreements, and therefore we may not receive revenue from these agreements. RISKS RELATED TO OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMON STOCK The market price of our common stock may be lower or more volatile than you expected. Our stock price, like the stock prices of many other biotechnology companies, has been highly volatile. During the preceding twelve months, the closing price of our common stock has been as low as $21.84 per share and as high as $33.30 per share. These broad market fluctuations may cause the market price of our common stock to be lower or more volatile than you expected. The price and volume fluctuations in our stock may often be unrelated to our operating performance. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate widely because of: • future announcements about our company or our competitors, including the results of testing, clinical trials, technological innovations or new commercial products; • regulatory actions with respect to our potential products or regulatory approvals with respect to our competitors’ products; • changes in government regulations; • developments in our relationships with our collaboration partners; • developments affecting our collaboration partners; • announcements relating to health care reform and reimbursement levels for new drugs; • our failure to acquire or maintain proprietary rights to the gene sequences we discover or the products we develop; • litigation; • public concern as to the safety of our products; and • political and economic factors affecting market prices generally or our market segment or our company particularly. The issuance and sale of shares underlying our outstanding convertible debt securities and options, as well as the sale of additional equity or equity-linked securities would dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders and may materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We have used and may continue to use our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock to acquire technology, product rights or businesses, or for other purposes. Our authorized capital stock consists of 400,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share. 31 As of December 31, 2010, we had 188,980,748 shares of common stock outstanding. In addition, an aggregate of approximately 24,302,742 shares of our common stock are issuable upon conversion of our outstanding 2011 Notes and outstanding 2012 Notes at an applicable conversion price of $15.55 and $17.78 per share, respectively; 24,028,688 shares of our common stock are issuable upon the exercise of options outstanding as of December 31, 2010, having a weighted-average exercise price of $14.55 per share, including 5,309,761 stock options granted during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 with a weighted-average grant date fair value of $17.31 per share; and 203,782 shares of our common stock are issuable upon the vesting of restricted stock unit awards outstanding as of December 31, 2010. If we issue additional equity securities, including in exchange for our outstanding convertible debt or in connection with the exercise or vesting of equity awards, the price of our common stock may be materially and adversely affected and the holdings of our existing stockholders would be diluted. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage acquisition proposals, delay a change in control or prevent transactions that may be in your best interests. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company that you as a stockholder may consider favorable and may be in your best interest. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that: • authorize the issuance of up to 20,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and discourage a takeover attempt; • limit who may call special meetings of stockholders; and • establish advance notice requirements for nomination of candidates for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholders’ meetings. 32 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 