Item 1A. Risk Factors We are subject to various risks that could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These risks could cause actual operating results to differ from those expressed in certain “forward looking statements” contained in this Form 10-K as well as in other Company communications. Although we believe that our expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including but not limited to, the following: Our growth strategy requires the opening of new Papa John’s restaurants. We may not be able to achieve our planned growth targets due to factors outside of our control, including the current economic environment. Our growth strategy depends on our and our franchisees’ ability to open new restaurants and to operate them on a profitable basis. Planned growth targets and the ability to operate new and existing restaurants profitably are affected by the current economic conditions and the resulting impact on consumer buying habits. Our business is susceptible to adverse changes in domestic and global economic conditions, which could make it difficult and uncertain for us to forecast operating results. Continuing weakness in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, volatility in commodity and fuel costs, difficulties in the financial sector and credit markets, and other factors affecting consumer spending, such as continued higher levels of unemployment, could cause reduced sales of our products or make it difficult for us to execute our strategy. Insolvency of key suppliers could also negatively impact our business. We expect this challenging environment to continue in 2010. The ability of the Papa John’s system to continue to open new restaurants is affected by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among other things, the availability of financing, the selection and availability of suitable restaurant locations, increases in the cost of or sustained high levels of cost of food ingredients and other commodities, paper, utilities, fuel, employee compensation and benefits, insurance and similar costs, availability and negotiation of suitable lease or financing terms, constraints on permitting and construction of restaurants, higher than anticipated construction costs, and the hiring, training and retention of management and other personnel. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that, system-wide, Papa John’s will be able to meet planned growth targets, open restaurants in markets now targeted for expansion or continue to operate in existing markets profitably. We face substantial competition from other food industry competitors, and our results of operations can be negatively impacted by the actions of one or more of our major competitors. The restaurant industry is intensely competitive with respect to price, service, location and food quality, and there are many well-established competitors with substantially greater financial and other resources than the Papa John’s system. Some of these competitors have been in existence for a substantially longer period than Papa John’s and may be better established in the markets where restaurants operated by us or 13 Table of Contents our franchisees are, or may be, located. Experience has shown that a change in pricing or other marketing or promotional strategies, including new product and concept developments, by one or more of our major competitors can have an adverse impact on our sales and earnings and our system-wide restaurant operations. Our results of operations and the operating results of our franchisees may be adversely impacted by any increases in the cost of food ingredients and other commodities. An increase in the cost or sustained high levels of the cost of cheese or other commodities could adversely affect the profitability of our system-wide restaurant operations. Cheese, historically representing 35% to 40% of our food cost, and other commodities are subject to cost fluctuations due to weather, availability, demand and other factors that are beyond our control. Additionally, sustained increases in fuel and utility costs could adversely affect the profitability of our restaurant and QC Center businesses. Our domestic franchisees buy substantially all of their food products from our QC Center business. Changes in franchisee buying patterns for food products not required to be purchased from our QC Center business could adversely impact the sales and profitability of that business. Changes in consumer preferences or discretionary consumer spending or negative publicity could adversely impact our results. Changes in consumer taste (for example, changes in dietary preferences that could cause consumers to avoid pizza in favor of foods that are perceived as more healthful), demographic trends, traffic patterns and the type, number and location of competing restaurants could adversely affect our restaurant business. Also, our success depends to a significant extent on numerous factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, including economic conditions, disposable consumer income and consumer confidence. Further adverse changes in these factors could reduce sales or impose practical limits on pricing, either of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Like other food industry competitors, we can also be materially adversely affected by negative publicity concerning food quality, illness, injury, publication of government or industry findings concerning food products served by us, or other health concerns or operating issues stemming from one restaurant or a limited number of restaurants. We are subject to federal and state laws governing our workforce. Changes in these laws, including minimum wage increases, or additional laws could increase costs for our system-wide operations. System-wide restaurant operations are subject to federal and state laws governing such matters as wage benefits, working conditions, citizenship requirements and overtime. A significant number of hourly personnel employed by our franchisees and us are paid at rates related to the federal and state minimum wage requirements. Accordingly, further increases in the federal minimum wage or the enactment of additional state or local minimum wage increases above federal wage rates will increase labor costs for our system-wide operations. Additionally, proposed legislation that may make it easier for workers to form unions or labor shortages in various markets could result in higher costs. Local government agencies have also implemented ordinances that restrict the sale of certain food products. The recently proposed national health care legislation could negatively impact our domestic system as our Company-owned and franchised restaurants may have to provide health care coverage that was not previously offered to certain team members. Additional government mandates, including proposed menu labeling legislation, could increase costs and be harmful to system-wide restaurant sales. 14 Table of Contents Current credit markets may adversely impact the ability of our franchisees to obtain financing, which may hinder our ability to achieve our planned growth in restaurant openings. Our growth strategy depends in large part on our ability and the ability of our franchisees to expand or open new restaurants and to operate those restaurants on a profitable basis. Delays or failures in opening new restaurants could materially and adversely affect our planned growth. The credit markets have experienced instability, resulting in declining real estate values, credit and liquidity concerns and increased loan default rates. Many lenders have subsequently reduced their willingness to make new loans and have tightened their credit requirements. Our franchisees depend on the availability of financing to expand existing locations or construct and open new restaurants. If our franchisees experience difficulty in obtaining adequate financing for these purposes, our growth strategy and franchise revenues may be adversely affected. The unavailability of credit has required and may continue to require the Company to provide financing to certain franchisees and prospective franchisees in order to mitigate store closings or allow new units to open. If we are unable or unwilling to provide such financing, our results of operations may be adversely impacted. Our expansion into emerging or under-penetrated markets may present increased risks. Any or all of the risks listed above potentially adversely impacting restaurant sales or costs could be especially harmful to the financial viability of franchisees in under-penetrated or emerging markets. A decline in or failure to improve financial performance for this group of franchisees could lead to unit closings at greater than anticipated levels and therefore impact contributions to marketing funds, our royalty stream, PJFS and support services efficiencies and other system-wide results. We may be subject to impairment charges. Impairment charges for Company-owned operations are possible if PJUK or previously acquired domestic restaurants perform below our expectations. This would result in a decrease in our reported assets value and reduction in our net income. Contingent lease liabilities. In connection with the 2006 sale of our former Perfect Pizza operations, we remain contingently liable for payment under approximately 62 lease arrangements primarily associated with Perfect Pizza restaurant sites. The Perfect Pizza franchisor is primarily liable for these leases, which have varying terms extending to 2017. As of December 27, 2009, the potential amount of undiscounted payments we could be required to make in the event of non-payment by Perfect Pizza and associated franchisees was approximately $5.8 million, with such amount declining monthly as lease payments are made. We have not recorded a liability with respect to such leases as of December 27, 2009, as our cross-default provisions with the Perfect Pizza franchisor substantially reduce the risk that we will be required to make payments under these leases. Our dependence on a sole or limited number of suppliers for some ingredients could result in disruptions to our business. Domestically, we are dependent on sole suppliers for our cheese, flour, and thin crust dough products. Alternative sources may not be available on a timely basis to supply these key ingredients or be available on terms as favorable to us as under our current arrangements. Domestic restaurants purchase substantially all food and related products from our QC Centers. Accordingly, both our corporate and franchised restaurants could be harmed by any prolonged disruption in the supply of products from our QC Centers. 15 Table of Contents Changes in purchasing practices by our domestic franchisees could harm our commissary business. Although our domestic franchisees currently purchase substantially all food products from our QC Centers, they are only required to purchase tomato sauce and dough from our QC Centers. Any changes in purchasing practices by domestic franchisees, such as seeking alternative suppliers of food products, including cheese, could adversely affect the financial results of our QC Centers, including the recoverability of the BIBP cheese purchasing entity deficit, which approximated $20.0 million at December 27, 2009. We may be required to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, which could negatively affect our results of operations. We depend on our Papa John’s brand name and we rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, service marks and similar intellectual property rights to protect our brand. We believe that the success of our business depends on our continued ability to use our existing trademarks and service marks to increase brand awareness and further develop our brand, both domestically and abroad. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights and we may be required to resort to litigation to enforce such rights. Litigation could result in high costs and diversion of resources, which could negatively affect our results of operations, regardless of the outcome. Our business and brand may be harmed should the services of our Founder, John Schnatter, as Chief Executive Officer, Chairman and brand spokesman terminate for any reason. John H. Schnatter, our Founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (CEO), does not serve under an employment agreement and we do not maintain key man life insurance on Mr. Schnatter. We also depend on Mr. Schnatter’s image and his services as spokesman in our advertising and promotion materials. While we have entered into a license agreement with Mr. Schnatter related to the use of certain intellectual property, our business and brand may be harmed if Mr. Schnatter’s services as CEO, Chairman and brand spokesman were not available for any reason. Our international operations are subject to increased risks and other factors that may make it more difficult to achieve or maintain profitability or meet planned growth rates. Our international operations could be negatively impacted by significant changes in international economic, political and health conditions in the countries in which the Company or its franchisees operate. In addition, our international operations are subject to additional factors, including compliance with foreign laws, currency regulations and fluctuations, differing business and social cultures and consumer preferences, diverse government regulations and structures, availability and cost of land and construction, ability to source high-quality ingredients and other commodities in a cost-effective manner, and differing interpretation of the obligations established in franchise agreements with international franchisees. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our international operations will achieve or maintain profitability or meet planned growth rates. Disruptions of our critical business or information technology systems could harm our ability to conduct normal business. Domestically and internationally, we are dependent on our technology systems operating correctly. Our systems could be damaged or interrupted by power loss, telecommunication failures, acts of God, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins or similar attacks. We may not have or be able to obtain adequate insurance for these events, which could damage our business and reputation and be expensive and difficult to remedy or repair. Although we have systems in place to prevent security 16 Table of Contents breaches and theft of consumer information, failure to prevent fraud or security breaches could have a material adverse effect on our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 