Item 1A. Risk Factors We are subject to various risks that could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These risks could cause actual operating results to differ from those expressed in certain “forward looking statements” contained in this Form 10-K as well as in other Company communications. Although we believe that our expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors: We face substantial competition from other food industry competitors, and our results of operations can be negatively impacted by the actions of one or more of our competitors. The QSR Pizza category and the restaurant industry in general are intensely competitive with respect to price, service, location and food quality, and there are many well-established competitors with substantially greater financial and other resources than the Papa John’s system. Some of these competitors have been in existence for a substantially longer period than Papa John’s and may be better established in the markets where restaurants operated by us or our franchisees are, or may be, located. Experience has shown that a change in pricing or other marketing initiatives or promotional strategies, including new product and concept developments, by one or more of our major competitors can have a rapid and adverse impact on our sales and earnings and our system-wide restaurant operations. Changes in consumer preferences or discretionary consumer spending could adversely impact our results. Changes in consumer taste (for example, changes in dietary preferences that could cause consumers to avoid pizza in favor of foods that are perceived as more healthful, and continuing focus on weight management), demographic trends, traffic patterns and the type, number and location of competing restaurants could adversely affect our restaurant business. Also, our success depends to a significant extent on numerous factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, including disposable consumer income, consumer confidence and economic conditions, such as continued higher levels of unemployment. Further adverse changes in these factors could reduce sales or inhibit our ability to increase pricing, either of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Our brand could be impacted by negative publicity concerning food quality and other health issues. Like other food industry competitors, we could be materially adversely affected by food safety issues and negative publicity concerning food quality, product recalls, customer service, illness, injury, publication of government or industry findings concerning food products served by us or competitors, or other health concerns or operating issues stemming from one or more restaurants. Reports of food safety issues, perceived health impact of ingredients in the products we serve and customer service issues could reduce our sales and transactions. This risk is heightened by the impact of social media. Our success depends on the differentiation of our brand. Our results depend upon our ability to differentiate our brand and our reputation for quality. If we fail in either of these areas, demand for our products could fall or we could otherwise be unable to operate our restaurants profitably. We may not be able to execute our growth strategy or achieve our planned growth targets. Our growth strategy depends on the Company and our franchisees’ ability to open new restaurants and to operate them on a profitable basis. Planned growth targets and the ability to operate new and existing restaurants profitably are affected by economic and competitive conditions and the resulting impact on consumer buying habits. High food costs or other increased commodity or operating costs, including but not limited to employee compensation and benefits and insurance costs, could slow down the rate of new store openings. Our business is susceptible to adverse changes in domestic and global economic conditions, which could make it difficult for us to meet our growth targets. Additionally, we or our franchisees may face challenges securing financing, finding suitable store locations at acceptable terms or securing required domestic or foreign government permits and approvals. 12 Our franchisees remain dependent on the availability of financing to expand existing locations or construct and open new restaurants. The reduced availability of credit has required, and may continue to require, the Company to provide financing to certain franchisees and prospective franchisees in order to mitigate store closings or allow new units to open. If we are unable or unwilling to provide such financing, our results of operations may be adversely impacted. To the extent we provide financing to franchisees in domestic and international markets, our results could be negatively impacted by the credit performance of our franchise loan program, particularly if our franchisees encounter worsening economic or political conditions in their markets. There can be no assurance that, system-wide, Papa John’s will be able to meet planned growth targets or continue to operate in existing markets profitably. Our results of operations and the operating results of our franchisees may be adversely impacted by increases in the cost of food ingredients and other commodities. An increase in the cost, or sustained high levels of the cost, of cheese or other commodities could adversely affect the profitability of our system-wide restaurant operations, particularly if we are unable to reflect increased costs into the selling price of our products. Cheese, historically representing 35% to 40% of our food cost, and other commodities can be subject to significant cost fluctuations due to weather, availability, global demand and other factors that are beyond our control. Additionally, increases in fuel and utility costs could adversely affect the profitability of our restaurant and QC Center businesses. Our domestic franchisees buy substantially all of their food products from our QC Center business. Our dependence on a sole or limited number of suppliers for some ingredients could result in disruptions to our business. Domestically, we are dependent on sole suppliers for our cheese, flour, fresh-packed sauce and thin crust dough products. Alternative sources may not be available on a timely basis to supply these key ingredients or be available on terms as favorable to us as under our current arrangements. Domestic restaurants purchase substantially all food and related products from our QC Centers. Accordingly, both our corporate and franchised restaurants could be harmed by any prolonged disruption in the supply of products from or to our QC Centers. Insolvency of key suppliers could also negatively impact our business. Our international operations are subject to increased risks and other factors that may make it more difficult to achieve or maintain profitability or meet planned growth rates. Our international operations could be negatively impacted by changes in international economic, political and health conditions in the countries in which the Company or its franchisees operate. In addition, our international operations are subject to additional factors, including compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, other anti-corruption laws in the countries in which we and our franchisees operate, other foreign laws, currency regulations and fluctuations, differing business and social cultures and consumer preferences, diverse and sometimes uncertain or unstable government regulations and structures, availability and cost of land and construction, ability to source high-quality ingredients and other commodities in a cost-effective manner, and differing interpretation of the obligations established in franchise agreements with international franchisees. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our international operations will achieve or maintain profitability or meet planned growth rates. 13 We are subject to federal and state laws governing our workforce and our operations. Changes in these laws, including minimum wage increases or additional laws could increase costs for our system-wide operations. System-wide restaurant operations are subject to federal and state laws governing such matters as wages, benefits, working conditions, citizenship requirements and overtime. A significant number of hourly personnel employed by our franchisees and us are paid at rates closely related to the federal and state minimum wage requirements. Accordingly, further increases in the federal minimum wage or the enactment of additional state or local minimum wage increases above federal wage rates would increase labor costs for our system-wide operations. Additionally, current and proposed legislation and regulations may make it easier for workers to form unions, resulting in higher costs. Local government agencies have also implemented ordinances that restrict the sale of certain food products. National health care legislation could negatively impact our domestic system in future years as our Company-owned and franchised restaurants may have to provide health care coverage that was not previously offered to certain part-time team members. Compliance with additional government mandates, including menu labeling requirements, could increase costs and be harmful to system-wide restaurant sales. Our expansion into emerging or under-penetrated domestic and international markets may present increased risks. Any or all of the risks listed above potentially adversely impacting restaurant sales or costs could be especially harmful to the financial viability of franchisees in under-penetrated or emerging markets in addition to international markets with unstable political climates. A decline in or failure to improve financial performance for such franchisees could lead to unit closings at greater than anticipated levels and therefore impact contributions to marketing funds, our royalty stream, QC Center and support services efficiencies and other system-wide results. Our business and brand may be harmed should the services of our Founder, John Schnatter, as Chief Executive Officer, Chairman or brand spokesman terminate for any reason. Failure to effectively execute succession planning could harm our Company and brand. John H. Schnatter, our Founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (CEO), does not serve under an employment agreement and we do not maintain key man life insurance on Mr. Schnatter. We also depend on Mr. Schnatter’s image and his services as spokesman in our advertising and promotion materials. While we have entered into a license agreement with Mr. Schnatter related to the use of certain intellectual property related to his name, likeness and image, our business and brand may be harmed if Mr. Schnatter’s services as CEO, Chairman or brand spokesman were not available for any reason. Failure to effectively execute succession planning could harm our Company and brand. Changes in purchasing practices by our domestic franchisees could harm our commissary business. Although our domestic franchisees currently purchase substantially all food products from our QC Centers, they are required to purchase only tomato sauce, dough and other items we may designate as proprietary or integral to our system from our QC Centers. Any changes in purchasing practices by domestic franchisees, such as seeking alternative approved suppliers of food products or ingredients, could adversely affect the financial results of our QC Centers and the Company. 14 We may be required to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, which could negatively affect our results of operations. We depend on our Papa John’s brand name and rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, service marks and similar intellectual property rights to promote our brand. We believe that the success of our business depends on our continued ability to use our existing trademarks and service marks to increase brand awareness and further develop our brand, both domestically and abroad. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights and we may be required to resort to litigation to enforce such rights. Litigation could result in high costs and diversion of resources, which could negatively affect our results of operations, regardless of the outcome. Disruptions of our critical business or information technology systems could harm our ability to conduct normal business. We rely heavily on information systems, including online and digital ordering, point-of-sale processing in our restaurants, payment of obligations, collection of cash, credit and debit card transactions and other processes and procedures. Our ability to efficiently and effectively manage our business depends on the reliability and capacity of these technology systems. Domestically and internationally, we are dependent on our technology systems operating correctly, including our enhanced online ordering system launched in 2010 through which a significant portion of our domestic sales originates. Our systems could be damaged or interrupted by power loss, telecommunication failures, acts of God, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, hacking or similar attacks. In particular, we may experience occasional interruptions of our online ordering system, which makes online ordering unavailable or slow to respond, negatively impacting sales and the experience of our customers. If our online ordering system does not perform with adequate speed, our customers may be less inclined to return to our online ordering system, as frequently or at all. If our systems do not operate properly, we may need to upgrade or replace these systems, which could require material capital investment from us and our franchisees. Part of our technology infrastructure is specifically designed for us and our operational systems, which could cause unexpected costs, delays or inefficiencies when infrastructure upgrades are needed. Much of our technology infrastructure is provided by third parties, and the performance of these systems is largely beyond our control. Failure of our third party systems to adequately perform, particularly as our online sales grow, could harm our business and the satisfaction of our customers. In addition, we may not have or be able to obtain adequate protection or insurance to mitigate the risks of these events or compensate for losses related to these events, which could damage our business and reputation and be expensive and difficult to remedy or repair. We may incur significant costs resulting from a security breach, including a breach of confidential customer information from our online ordering business. We are subject to a number of privacy and protection laws and regulations. Our business requires the collection and retention of large volumes of internal and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information of our employees and customers as such information is entered into, processed, summarized and reported by the various information systems we use. The integrity and protection of that customer, employee and Company data is critical to us. Although we take steps to prevent security breaches, such as theft of customer and Company information, failure to prevent fraud or security breaches could result in significant costs to us and have a material adverse effect on our business. 15 We have been and will continue to be subject to various types of litigation, including class action litigation, which could subject us to significant damages or other remedies. We face the risk of litigation from various parties, including our customers, franchisees and employees, in the ordinary course of our business. We are party to various legal proceedings, including employment and tort claims. We evaluate these claims and proceedings to assess the expected outcome and where necessary to estimate the amount of potential losses to us. These assessments are based on the information available to us at the time the estimates are made and require the use of a significant amount of judgment, and actual outcomes or losses may materially differ from our estimates. Even if claims against us do not have merit, the costs of defending or settling any such existing or future claims, or costs related to damages should such claims be upheld in court, could significantly impact the Company’s earnings and financial condition. We may be subject to impairment charges. Impairment charges are possible if our subsidiary located in the United Kingdom (“PJUK”) or previously acquired domestic restaurants perform below our expectations. This would result in a decrease in our reported asset value and reduction in our net income. Our results of operations could be materially impacted as a result of the credit risk of operators of leases for which we remain contingently liable. We remain contingently liable for certain restaurant and commissary leases previously operated by us and subsequently sold or refranchised in the ordinary course of business. While the new operators are the primary obligors under such assigned leases, we could be liable in the event that an operator is unwilling or unable to make any required payments under a lease. Continuing weakness in the economy and difficulty in credit markets could make it difficult for operators to meet their contractual commitments. If those operators default on the leases and we are unable to sublease the properties for which we remain contingently liable, it could have a material impact on our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 16 