Item 1A. Risk Factors We are subject to various risks that could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These risks could cause actual operating results to differ from those expressed in certain “forward looking statements” contained in this Form 10-K as well as in other Company communications. Although we believe our expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors: We face substantial competition from other food industry competitors, and our results of operations can be negatively impacted by the actions of one or more of our competitors. The QSR Pizza category and the restaurant industry in general are intensely competitive, and there are many well-established competitors with substantially greater financial and other resources than the Papa John’s system. Some of these competitors have been in existence for a substantially longer period than Papa John’s and may be better established in the markets where restaurants operated by us or our franchisees are, or may be, located. Demographic trends, traffic patterns, the type, number and location of competing restaurants, and changes in pricing or other marketing initiatives or promotional strategies, including new product and concept developments, by one or more of our major competitors can have a rapid and adverse impact on our sales and earnings and our system-wide restaurant operations. Changes in consumer preferences or discretionary consumer spending could adversely impact our results. Changes in consumer preferences and trends (for example, changes in dietary preferences that could cause consumers to avoid pizza in favor of foods that are perceived as healthier, lower-calorie or otherwise based on their nutritional content) could adversely affect our restaurant business. Also, our success depends to a significant extent on numerous factors affecting consumer confidence or discretionary consumer income, including higher tax rates domestically or in international markets, and adverse economic conditions such as continued high levels of unemployment, high fuel and energy costs and reduced access to credit. Such factors could cause consumers to spend less on food or shift to lower-priced products. Further adverse changes in these factors could reduce sales or inhibit our ability to increase pricing, either of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Food safety and quality concerns may negatively impact our business and profitability. Incidents or reports of food- or water-borne illness or other food safety issues, food contamination or tampering, employee hygiene and cleanliness failures or improper employee conduct at our restaurants could lead to product liability or other claims. Such incidents or reports could negatively affect our brand and reputation as well as our revenues and profits. Similar incidents or reports occurring at quick service restaurants unrelated to us could likewise create negative publicity, which could negatively impact consumer behavior towards us. In addition, we rely on our domestic and international suppliers, as do our franchisees, to provide quality ingredients and to comply with applicable laws and industry standards. A failure of one of our domestic or international suppliers to meet our quality standards, or meet domestic or international food industry standards, could result in a disruption in our supply chain and negatively impact our brand and our business and profitability. 11 Our success depends on the differentiation of our brand and maintaining the value and quality reputation of our brand. Our results depend upon our ability to differentiate our brand and our reputation for quality. Our brand has been highly rated in U.S. surveys and we strive to build the value of our brand as we develop international markets. The value of our brand and demand for our products could be damaged by incidents that harm consumer perceptions of the Company and our brand, such as product recalls, food safety issues, privacy breaches, and related negative publicity. Social media can be used to promote adverse consumer perceptions with significantly greater speed and scope than traditional media outlets. As a result, the value of our brand and the demand for our products could be damaged and have an adverse effect on our financial results. We may not be able to execute our strategy or achieve our planned growth targets, which could negatively impact our business and our financial results. Our growth strategy depends on the Company’s and our franchisees’ ability to open new restaurants and to operate them on a profitable basis. Planned growth targets and the ability to operate new and existing restaurants profitably are affected by economic, regulatory and competitive conditions and consumer buying habits. Increased commodity or operating costs, including but not limited to employee compensation and benefits or insurance costs, could slow the rate of new store openings or increase the number of store closings. Our business is susceptible to adverse changes in local, national and global economic conditions, which could make it difficult for us to meet our growth targets. Additionally, we or our franchisees may face challenges securing financing, finding suitable store locations at acceptable terms or securing required domestic or foreign government permits and approvals. Our franchisees remain dependent on the availability of financing to remodel or renovate existing locations or construct and open new restaurants. The reduced availability of credit has required, and may continue to require, the Company to provide financing to certain franchisees and prospective franchisees in order to mitigate store closings or allow new units to open. If we are unable or unwilling to provide such financing, our results of operations may be adversely impacted. To the extent we provide financing to franchisees in domestic and international markets, our results could be negatively impacted by the credit performance of our franchisee loans, particularly if our franchisees encounter worsening economic or political conditions in their markets. Our stock price could decline or experience volatility if we do not meet expectations of the market for earnings per share, comparable store sales, net restaurant openings or revenue growth. Our results of operations and the operating results of our franchisees may be adversely impacted by increases in the cost of food ingredients and other commodities. We are exposed to ongoing commodity volatility, and an increase in the cost, or sustained high levels of the cost, of cheese or other commodities could adversely affect the profitability of our system-wide restaurant operations, particularly if we are unable to increase the selling price of our products to offset costs. Cheese, historically representing 35% to 40% of our food cost, and other commodities can be subject to significant cost fluctuations due to weather, availability, global demand and other factors that are beyond our control. Additionally, increases in fuel, utility, and insurance costs could adversely affect the profitability of our restaurant and QC Center businesses. Our domestic franchisees buy substantially all of their food products from our QC Center business. We have pricing arrangements with certain of our suppliers that reset on time frames ranging from monthly to annually. For our Company-owned restaurants, we also have forward pricing arrangements for a portion of our cheese purchases. 12 Our dependence on a sole supplier or a limited number of suppliers for some ingredients could result in disruptions to our business. Domestic restaurants purchase substantially all food and related products from our QC Centers. Domestically, we are dependent on sole suppliers for our cheese and flour products, and internationally we are dependent on a sole supplier for substantially all our cheese. Alternative sources may not be available on a timely basis to supply these key ingredients or be available on terms as favorable to us as under our current arrangements. Our corporate and franchised restaurants could also be harmed by any prolonged disruption in the supply of products from or to our QC Centers due to weather, crop disease, and other events beyond our control. Insolvency of key suppliers could also negatively impact our business. Our international operations are subject to increased risks and other factors that may make it more difficult to achieve or maintain profitability or meet planned growth rates. Our international operations could be negatively impacted by changes in international economic, political and health conditions in the countries in which the Company or our franchisees operate. In addition, there are risks associated with differing business and social cultures and consumer preferences, diverse and sometimes uncertain or unstable government regulations and structures, limited availability and high cost of suitable restaurant locations, and difficulties in sourcing high-quality ingredients and other commodities in a cost-effective manner. In addition, our international operations are subject to additional factors, including compliance with anti-corruption and other foreign laws, and various currency regulations and fluctuations. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our international operations will maintain profitability or meet planned growth rates. We are subject to numerous laws and regulations governing our workforce and our operations. Changes in these laws, including health care legislation and minimum wage increases or additional laws could increase costs for our system-wide operations. Domestic system-wide restaurant operations are subject to federal and state laws governing such matters as wages, benefits, working conditions, citizenship requirements and overtime. A significant number of hourly personnel employed by our franchisees and us are paid at rates closely related to the federal and state minimum wage requirements. Accordingly, further increases in the federal minimum wage or the enactment of additional state or local minimum wage increases above federal wage rates would increase labor costs for our system-wide operations. Additionally, current conditions may make it easier for workers to form unions, potentially resulting in higher costs. Local government agencies have also implemented ordinances that restrict the sale of certain food or drink products. Compliance with additional government mandates, including menu labeling requirements, could increase costs and be harmful to system-wide restaurant sales. U.S. health care reform law enacted in 2010 requires employers such as us to provide health insurance for all qualifying employees or pay penalties for not providing coverage. We are evaluating the impact the new law will have on our domestic operations, and although we cannot predict with certainty the financial impact of the legislation, we, like other industry competitors, expect that the requirement that we provide more extensive health benefits to employees than we currently provide, and/or fund a larger portion than previously funded, could impact our results of operations beginning in 2014. Domestically and internationally, we operate in an increasingly complex regulatory environment, and the cost of regulatory compliance is increasing. Failure to comply with applicable U.S. and international labor, health care, food, anti-bribery and corruption, consumer and other laws, may result in civil and criminal liability, damages, fines and penalties. This could harm our reputation, limit our ability to grow and adversely affect our financial performance. 13 Our expansion into emerging or under-penetrated domestic and international markets may present increased risks. Any or all of the risks listed above could be especially harmful to the financial viability of our franchisees in under-penetrated or emerging markets in addition to international markets with unstable political climates. A decline in or failure to improve financial performance for such franchisees could lead to reduced new restaurant openings or unit closings at greater than anticipated levels and therefore adversely impact our ability to achieve our targets for growth and results of operations as well as have a negative impact on market share. Our business and brand may be harmed should the services of our Founder, John Schnatter, as Chief Executive Officer, Chairman or brand spokesman terminate for any reason. Failure to effectively execute succession planning could harm our Company and brand. John H. Schnatter, our Founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (CEO), does not serve under an employment agreement and we do not maintain key man life insurance on Mr. Schnatter. We also depend on Mr. Schnatter’s image and his services as spokesman in our advertising and promotion materials. While we have entered into a license agreement with Mr. Schnatter related to the use of certain intellectual property related to his name, likeness and image, our business and brand may be harmed if Mr. Schnatter’s services were not available to the Company for any reason or the reputation of Mr. Schnatter was negatively impacted. In addition, failure to effectively execute succession planning could harm our Company and brand. Changes in purchasing practices by our domestic franchisees could harm our commissary business. Although our domestic franchisees currently purchase substantially all food products from our QC Centers, they are only required to purchase tomato sauce, dough and other items we may designate as proprietary or integral to our system from our QC Centers. Any changes in purchasing practices by domestic franchisees, such as seeking alternative approved suppliers of food products or ingredients, could adversely affect the financial results of our QC Centers and the Company. We may be required to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, which could negatively affect our results of operations. We depend on our Papa John’s brand name and rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, service marks and similar intellectual property rights to promote our brand. We believe the success of our business depends on our continued ability to use our existing trademarks and service marks to increase brand awareness and further develop our brand, both domestically and abroad. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights and we may be required to resort to litigation to enforce such rights. Litigation could result in high costs and diversion of resources, which could negatively affect our results of operations, regardless of the outcome. Disruptions of our critical business or information technology systems could harm our ability to conduct normal business. We rely heavily on information systems, including digital ordering solutions, through which a significant portion of our domestic sales originate. We also rely heavily on point-of-sale processing in our restaurants for data collection and payment systems for the collection of cash, credit and debit card transactions, and other processes and procedures. Our ability to efficiently and effectively manage our business depends on the reliability and capacity of these technology systems. 14 Our systems could be damaged or interrupted by power loss through various technological failures or acts of God. In particular, we may experience occasional interruptions of our digital ordering solutions, which make online ordering unavailable or slow to respond, negatively impacting sales and the experience of our customers. If our digital ordering solutions do not perform with adequate speed, our customers may be less inclined to return to our digital ordering solutions, as frequently or at all. If our systems do not operate properly, we may need to upgrade or replace these systems, which could require material capital investment from us and our franchisees. Part of our technology infrastructure is specifically designed for us and our operational systems, which could cause unexpected costs, delays or inefficiencies when infrastructure upgrades are needed. Significant portions of our technology infrastructure are provided by third parties, and the performance of these systems is largely beyond our control. Failure of our third party systems, and backup systems, to adequately perform, particularly as our online sales grow, could harm our business and the satisfaction of our customers. In addition, we may not have or be able to obtain adequate protection or insurance to mitigate the risks of these events or compensate for losses related to these events, which could damage our business and reputation and be expensive and difficult to remedy or repair. We may incur significant costs resulting from a security breach, including a breach of confidential customer information from our digital ordering business. We are subject to a number of privacy and data protection laws and regulations. Our business requires the collection and retention of large volumes of internal and customer data, including credit card data and other personally identifiable information of our employees and customers housed in the various information systems we use. The integrity and protection of that customer, employee and Company data is critical to us. Although we take significant steps to prevent security breaches, such as theft of customer and Company information, failure to prevent fraud or security breaches could result in significant costs to us and have a material adverse effect on our business. We have been and will continue to be subject to various types of litigation, including class and collective action litigation, which could subject us to significant damages or other remedies. We and our restaurant industry competitors are subject to the risk of litigation from various parties, including vendors, customers, franchisees and employees. We are involved in a number of lawsuits, claims, investigations, and proceedings consisting of intellectual property, employment, consumer, commercial and other matters arising in the ordinary course of business. We are currently a defendant in cases containing class action allegations. Plaintiffs in these types of class action lawsuits often seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to such lawsuits may not be accurately estimated. We evaluate all of the claims and proceedings involving us to assess the expected outcome and where necessary we estimate the amount of potential losses to us. In many cases, particularly the class action cases, we may not be able to estimate the amount of potential losses and/or our estimates may prove to be insufficient. These assessments are made by management based on the information available at the time made and require the use of a significant amount of judgment, and actual outcomes or losses may materially differ. Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid, or whether we are ultimately held liable, such litigation may be expensive to defend and may divert resources away from our operations and negatively impact earnings. We may be subject to impairment charges. Impairment charges are possible if our subsidiaries located in the United Kingdom (“PJUK”) and China or previously acquired domestic restaurants perform below our expectations. This would result in a decrease in our reported asset value and reduction in our net income. 15 Our results of operations could be materially impacted as a result of the credit risk of operators of leases for which we remain contingently liable. We remain contingently liable for certain restaurant and commissary leases previously operated by us and subsequently sold or refranchised. We enter into these arrangements as part of the process of disposing of or refranchising our stores in the ordinary course of business. While the new operators are the primary obligors under such assigned leases, we could be liable in the event that one or more new operators are unwilling or unable to make any required lease payments. Continuing weakness in the economy and difficulty in credit markets could make it difficult for these operators to meet their contractual commitments. If these operators default on the leases and we are unable to sublease the properties for which we remain contingently liable, it could have a material impact on our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 