ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We face the possibility of additional actions relating to our past stock option granting practices. As a result of our Audit Committee’s review of our historical stock option granting practices, our Audit Committee has concluded that incorrect measurement dates were used for financial accounting purposes for stock option grants made in certain prior periods. As a result, we have recorded additional compensation expense, and related tax effects, with regard to certain past stock option grants. All of these adjustments were recorded in the financial statements included in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006. Our Audit Committee’s review and related activities have required us to incur substantial expenses for legal, accounting, tax and other professional services, have diverted management’s attention from our business, and could in the future harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. While we believe that we have made appropriate judgments in determining the correct measurement dates for our stock option grants, the SEC may disagree with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported the financial impact. Accordingly, there is a risk that we may have to restate our prior financial statements, amend prior filings with the SEC or take other actions not currently contemplated. In addition, we may be exposed to greater risks associated with possible future government actions and shareholder lawsuits relating to our past stock option granting practices and we can provide no assurance regarding the initiation or outcomes of such actions or lawsuits. For a description of the Audit Committee’s review and findings, see Item 1 — Business under “Recent Developments”. Our ability to open and operate new restaurants is subject to factors beyond our control. Our growth strategy depends in large part on our ability and the ability of our franchisees to timely and efficiently open new restaurants and to operate these restaurants on a profitable basis. Delays or failures in opening new restaurants could materially and adversely affect our planned growth. The success of our planned expansion will depend upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: • our ability to identify, and secure an adequate supply of, available and suitable restaurant sites; • availability and retention of qualified operating personnel; • increases in minimum wage and other operating costs cost; • shortages in raw food products and volatility of commodity prices; • consumer preferences, spending patterns and demographic trends; • securing required governmental approvals and permits; • competition in our markets and competitive discounting; • availability of capital; and • the possibility of unforeseen events affecting our industry generally and in the Southeastern region of the United States in particular. 16 Table of Contents The locations of our Company-owned and franchised restaurants are critical to our success. Our success is dependent on our ability to identify and secure suitable locations for our Company-owned and franchised restaurants. Factors we typically review in considering any potential restaurant locations include traffic count, speed of traffic, convenient access, size and configuration, demographics and density of population, visibility and cost, as well as potential competition and sales and traffic counts of national and regional chain restaurants operating in the area. The sales performance and guest counts for our restaurants may be adversely affected in the event one or more of our competitors opens new restaurants in close proximity to our locations. Our business is dependent on the availability and retention of qualified operating personnel. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified managerial and other employees. Qualified individuals needed to fill these positions are in short supply in some areas. The inability to recruit and retain these individuals may delay the planned openings of new restaurants or result in high employee turnover in existing restaurants, which could harm our business. Additionally, competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages to attract sufficient employees, which could result in higher labor costs. Most of our employees are paid on an hourly basis. These employees are paid in accordance with applicable minimum wage regulations. Accordingly, any increase in the minimum wage, whether state or federal, could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our operations are susceptible to the cost of and changes in food availability. Our profitability depends in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food costs. Various factors beyond our control, including adverse weather conditions, governmental regulation, production, availability, recalls of food products and seasonality may affect our food costs or cause a disruption in our supply chain. Beef and chicken represent a significant portion of our food purchases. Changes in the price or availability of chicken or beef could materially adversely affect our profitability. We cannot predict whether we will be able to anticipate and react to changing food costs by adjusting our purchasing practices and menu prices, and a failure to do so could adversely affect our operating results. Changes in consumer preferences could negatively impact our results of operations. Our menu features made-to-order gourmet Black Angus hamburgers and chicken sandwiches, fresh salads, chili and other special entrees as well as hand-dipped milkshakes, fresh-made lemonade and fresh-baked cobbler. Our continued success depends, in part, upon the popularity of these foods in the quick serve restaurant market. The fast food industry is characterized by the frequent introduction of new products, accompanied by substantial promotional campaigns. In recent years, numerous companies in the fast food industry have introduced products positioned to capitalize on growing consumer preference for food products which are upscale and are, or are perceived to be, healthful, nutritious, low in calories and low in fat content. Our success will depend in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to changing consumer preferences, tastes and eating and purchasing habits, as well as other factors affecting the food service industry, including new market entrants and demographic changes. Health concerns relating to the consumption of beef or chicken could negatively impact our results of operations. Like other restaurant chains, consumer preferences could be affected by health concerns about the avian influenza, also known as bird flu, or the consumption of beef, or negative publicity concerning food quality, illness and injury generally, such as negative publicity concerning E. coli, “mad cow” or “foot-and-mouth” disease or the publication of government or industry findings concerning food products served by us. This negative publicity may adversely affect demand for our food and could result in a decrease in guest traffic to our restaurants. We are subject to government regulation that may adversely hinder or impact the growth of our business. We are subject to Federal Trade Commission regulation and several state laws which regulate the offer and sale of franchises. The Company is also subject to state laws that regulate substantive aspects of the franchisor — franchisee relationship. The FTC’s Trade Regulation Rule on Franchising requires the Company to furnish to prospective franchisees a franchise offering circular containing information prescribed by the rule. State laws that regulate the offer and sale of franchises and the franchisor — franchisee relationship presently exist in a substantial number of states. 17 Table of Contents Each Company-operated and franchised restaurant is subject to licensing and regulation by a number of governmental authorities, which may include health, sanitation, safety, fire, building and other agencies in the state or municipality in which the restaurant is located. Difficulties in obtaining or failure to obtain the required licenses or approvals could delay or prevent the development of a new restaurant in a particular area. The Company is also subject to federal and state environmental regulations. More stringent and varied requirements of local governmental bodies with respect to zoning, land use and environmental factors could delay or prevent the development of a new restaurant in a particular area. State and federal labor laws that govern the relationship with employees of our Company-owned and franchised restaurants, such as minimum wage requirements, overtime and working conditions and citizenship requirements. Significant numbers of the food service and preparation personnel at our restaurants are paid at rates governed by the federal minimum wage. Accordingly, further increases in the minimum wage would increase our labor costs and may have an adverse effect on the Company’s operating margins. Our success depends on our ability to compete effectively in the quick service restaurant industry. The restaurant industry, particularly the fast food segment, is highly competitive with respect to price, service, food quality and location. We compete with numerous well-established competitors possessing substantial financial, marketing, personnel and other resources. In addition, we compete with national, regional and local fast food chains, many of which specialize in or offer quick serve hamburger and chicken products. We also expect to face competition from a broad range of other restaurants and food service establishments. Many of the Company’s competitors have achieved significant national, regional and local brand name and product recognition and engage in extensive advertising and promotional programs, both generally and in response to efforts by additional competitors to enter new markets or introduce new products. We compete primarily based on the quality of our food and guest service, rather than price. We implemented a menu price increase of approximately 3% effective in October 2006 in order to partially offset increased costs of beef and other operating expenses. Although we have not experienced significant consumer resistance to our past price increases, we cannot provide assurance that these or other future price increases will not deter guests from visiting our restaurants in favor of lower-price competitors. If our franchisees cannot develop new restaurants, our growth and success may be impeded. Our ability to grow is dependent on the development of franchised restaurants pursuant to existing area development agreements and franchise agreements, as well as the pursuit of additional franchised restaurants pursuant to new area development agreements and franchise agreements. Under our current form of area development agreement, franchisees must develop a predetermined number of restaurants in their area according to a schedule that lasts for the term of their development agreement. The Company may revoke an area development agreement of any franchisee that is unsuccessful in meeting its projected development schedule. The Company anticipates the termination of at least eleven area development agreements, which relate to the development of up to 54 stores, during 2007 due to lack of required development under the agreements. Our expansion into new markets may present increased risks due to our unfamiliarity with the area. Some of our new restaurants will be located in areas where we have little or no meaningful experience and where there is the lack of market awareness of the Back Yard Burgers® brand. Those markets may have competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns that are different from our existing markets, which may cause our new restaurants to be less successful than restaurants in our existing markets. The acquisition of existing restaurants from our franchisees may have an adverse impact on our operating results or financial condition. We may seek to selectively acquire existing restaurants from our franchisees who are seeking an exit strategy. To do so, we would need to identify suitable acquisition candidates, negotiate acceptable acquisition terms and obtain appropriate financing. Future acquisitions of existing restaurants from our franchisees could result in the incurrence of contingent liabilities and impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets, any of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents Our restaurants are located primarily in the Southeast region of the United States and, as a result, we are sensitive to economic and other trends and developments in this region. As of December 30, 2006, our operations included 44 Company-operated restaurants and 136 franchised restaurants in the Southeast region of the United States, primarily in the states of Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Mississippi, Missouri and Tennessee. As a result, we are particularly susceptible to adverse trends and economic conditions in this region, including its labor market. In addition, given our geographic concentration, negative publicity regarding any of our restaurants in the Southeastern United States could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations, as could other regional occurrences such as local strikes, energy shortages or increases in energy prices, droughts, earthquakes, fires or other natural disasters. Our franchisees could take actions that could harm our business. Franchisees are independent contractors and are not our employees. We provide training and support to franchisees; however, franchisees operate their restaurants as independent businesses. Consequently, the quality of franchised restaurant operations may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control. Moreover, franchisees may not successfully operate restaurants in a manner consistent with our standards and requirements, or may not hire and train qualified managers and other restaurant personnel. Our image and reputation, and the image and reputation of other franchisees, may suffer materially and system-wide sales could significantly decline if our franchisees do not operate successfully. If we are not able to transition the role of CEO to a qualified person, our business could suffer. Our growth in the past has depended on the services and performance of Lattimore M. Michael, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. On February 27, 2006, we announced that we would separate the roles of Chairman and CEO and that, upon retaining an individual to serve as President and CEO of the Company, Mr. Michael would resign from his position as CEO. Our future performance will depend on our ability to recruit and retain an individual to serve as President and CEO of the Company. Competition for qualified executives is intense. The inability to attract additional qualified personnel as needed could materially harm our business. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expense. Keeping abreast of, and in compliance with, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and Nasdaq Stock Market rules, has required an increased amount of management attention and external resources. We remain committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance-related activities. Our future success depends on our ability to protect our proprietary information. Our business prospects will depend in part on our ability to develop favorable consumer recognition of the Back Yard Burgers® name and logo. Although Back Yard Burgers® and the kettle and flame logo are federally registered trademarks with the United States Patent and Trademark Office; our trademarks could be infringed in ways that leave us without redress. A significant increase in litigation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. As a member of the restaurant industry, we are sometimes the subject of complaints or litigation from guests alleging illness, injury or other food quality, health or operational concerns. Adverse publicity resulting from these allegations could harm our restaurants, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are liable. We are subject to the same risks of adverse publicity resulting from these sorts of allegations even if the claim involves one of our franchisees. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 19 Table of Contents 