Item 1A. Risk Factors We are subject to various risks, which could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These risks could cause actual operating results to differ from those expressed in certain “forward looking statements” contained in this Form 10-K as well as in other Company communications. Although we believe that our expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including but not limited to, the following: Our growth strategy requires the opening of new Papa John’s restaurants. We may not be able to achieve our planned growth targets due to factors outside of our control, including the current economic environment. Our growth strategy depends on our ability and the ability of our franchisees to open new restaurants and to operate these new restaurants on a profitable basis. Planned growth targets and our ability and our franchisees’ ability to operate new and existing restaurants profitably are affected by the current economic conditions and the resulting impact on consumer buying habits. Our business is susceptible to adverse changes in domestic and global economic conditions, which could make it difficult and uncertain for us to forecast operating results. Continuing weakness in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, volatility in commodity and fuel costs, difficulties in the financial sector and credit markets, and other factors affecting consumer spending could cause reduced sales of our products or make it difficult for us to execute our strategy. Other effects on our business from these factors could include insolvency of key suppliers. The ability of the Papa John’s system to continue to open new restaurants is affected by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among other things, the availability of financing, the selection and availability of suitable restaurant locations, increases in the cost of or sustained high levels of cost of food ingredients and other commodities, paper, utilities, fuel, employee compensation and benefits, insurance and similar costs, availability and negotiation of suitable lease or financing terms, constraints on permitting and construction of restaurants, higher than anticipated construction costs, and the hiring, training and retention of management and other personnel. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that, system-wide, Papa John’s will be able to meet planned growth targets, open restaurants in markets now targeted for expansion or continue to operate in existing markets profitably. We face substantial competition from other food industry competitors, and our results of operations can be negatively impacted by the actions of one or more of our major competitors. The restaurant industry is intensely competitive with respect to price, service, location and food quality, and there are many well-established competitors with substantially greater financial and other resources than the Papa John’s system. Some of these competitors have been in existence for a substantially longer period than Papa John’s and may be better established in the markets where restaurants operated by us or our franchisees are, or may be, located. Experience has shown that a change in the pricing or other 14 Table of Contents marketing or promotional strategies, including new product and concept developments, by one or more of our major competitors can have an adverse impact on our sales and earnings and our system-wide restaurant operations. Our results of operations and the operating results of our franchisees may be adversely impacted by any increases in the cost of food ingredients and other commodities. An increase in the cost or sustained high levels of the cost of cheese or other commodities could adversely affect the profitability of our system-wide restaurant operations. Cheese costs, historically representing 35% to 40% of our food cost, and other commodities are subject to fluctuations, weather, availability, demand and other factors that are beyond our control. Additionally, sustained increases in fuel and utility costs could adversely affect the profitability of our restaurant and QC Center businesses. Higher commodity costs (primarily cheese and wheat) have resulted in operating margin pressure on our franchisees. Given the current commodity cost environment, we chose to mitigate commodity cost increases at domestic restaurants by supporting the entire domestic system via reduced commissary margins. For example, we did not pass through higher fuel charges incurred during 2008 by our QC Centers to our domestic restaurants. Additionally, for the last two months of 2008, in an effort to assist franchisees through this difficult period, we decided not to pass along the higher price of cheese that would have been required under the pricing formula for cheese sales from BIBP to franchisees. Instead, we allowed domestic restaurants to pay the expected futures spot market price for cheese plus an interest carry cost (Q4-08 modified price), which was approximately $0.28 per pound less than the pre-established fourth quarter price paid by domestic restaurants during October 2008. Our decision during the fourth quarter to reduce the BIBP formula price will result in a delay in the recovery of the BIBP cheese purchasing entity deficit. Additionally, further delays in the recovery of the BIBP deficit will occur as we have decided to continue to assist the domestic franchise system in 2009 or beyond by maintaining a lower BIBP price than would otherwise be called for by the pricing formula. Changes in consumer preferences or discretionary consumer spending or negative publicity could adversely impact our results. Changes in consumer taste (for example, changes in dietary preferences that could cause consumers to avoid pizza in favor of foods that are perceived as more healthful), demographic trends, traffic patterns and the type, number and location of competing restaurants could adversely affect our restaurant business. Also, our success depends to a significant extent on numerous factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, including economic conditions, disposable consumer income and consumer confidence. Further adverse changes in these factors could reduce sales or impose practical limits on pricing, either of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Like other food industry competitors, we can also be materially adversely affected by negative publicity concerning food quality, illness, injury, publication of government or industry findings concerning food products served by us, or other health concerns or operating issues stemming from one restaurant or a limited number of restaurants. We are subject to federal and state laws governing our workforce. Changes in these laws, including minimum wage increases, or additional laws could increase costs for our system-wide operations. System-wide restaurant operations are subject to federal and state laws governing such matters as wage benefits, working conditions, citizenship requirements and overtime. A significant number of hourly personnel employed by our franchisees and us are paid at rates related to the federal and state minimum wage requirements. Accordingly, further increases in the federal minimum wage or the enactment of additional state or local minimum wage increases above federal wage rates will increase labor costs for our system-wide operations. Additionally, proposed legislation which may make it easier for workers to 15 Table of Contents form unions and labor shortages in various markets could result in higher costs. Local government agencies have also implemented ordinances which restrict the sale of certain food products. Additional government ordinances, including proposed menu labeling legislation, could increase costs and be harmful to system-wide restaurant sales. Current credit markets may adversely impact the ability of our franchisees to obtain financing, which may hinder our ability to achieve our planned growth in restaurant openings. Our growth strategy depends in large part on our ability and the ability of our franchisees to expand or open new restaurants and to operate those restaurants on a profitable basis. Delays or failures in opening new restaurants could materially and adversely affect our planned growth. In recent months, the credit markets have experienced instability, resulting in declining real estate values, credit and liquidity concerns and increased loan default rates. Many lenders have subsequently reduced their willingness to make new loans and have tightened their credit requirements. Our franchisees depend on the availability of financing to expand existing locations or construct and open new restaurants. If our franchisees experience difficulty in obtaining adequate financing for these purposes, our growth strategy and franchise revenues may be adversely affected. The unavailability of credit may require the Company to provide financing to certain franchisees and prospective franchisees in order to mitigate store closings, allow new units to open and continue to execute our refranchising strategy. If we are unable or unwilling to provide such financing, our results of operations may be adversely impacted. Our expansion into emerging or under-penetrated markets may present increased risks. Any or all of the risks listed above potentially adversely impacting restaurant sales or costs could be especially harmful to the financial viability of franchisees in under-penetrated or emerging markets. A decline in or failure to improve financial performance for this group of franchisees could lead to unit closings at greater than anticipated levels and therefore impact contributions to marketing funds, our royalty stream, PJFS and support services efficiencies and other system-wide results. We may be subject to impairment charges. Impairment charges for Company-owned operations are possible if PJUK or previously acquired domestic restaurants perform below our expectations. This would result in a decrease in our assets and reduction in our net income. Our dependence on a sole or limited number of suppliers for some ingredients could result in disruptions to our business. Domestically, we are dependent on sole suppliers for our cheese, flour, and thin and pan crust dough products. Alternative sources for these ingredients may not be available on a timely basis to supply these key ingredients or be available on terms as favorable to us as under our current arrangements. Domestic restaurants purchase substantially all food and related products from our QC Centers. Accordingly, both our corporate and franchised restaurants could be harmed by any prolonged disruption in the supply of products from our QC Centers. Changes in purchasing practices by our domestic franchisees could harm our commissary business. Although our domestic franchisees currently purchase substantially all food products from our QC Centers, they are only required to purchase tomato sauce and dough from our QC Centers. Any changes in purchasing practices by domestic franchisees, such as seeking alternative suppliers of food products, 16 Table of Contents including cheese, could adversely affect the financial results of our QC Centers, including the recoverability of the BIBP cheese purchasing entity deficit. We may be required to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, which could negatively affect our results of operations. We depend on our Papa John’s brand name and we rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, service marks and similar intellectual property rights to protect our brand. We believe that the success of our business depends on our continued ability to use our existing trademarks and service marks to increase brand awareness and further develop our brand, both domestically and abroad. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights and we may be required to resort to litigation to enforce such rights. Litigation could result in high costs and diversion of resources, which could negatively affect our results of operations, regardless of the outcome. Our international operations are subject to increased risks and other factors that may make it more difficult to achieve or maintain profitability or meet planned growth rates. Our international operations could be negatively impacted by significant changes in international economic, political and health conditions in the countries in which the Company or its franchisees operate. In addition, our international operations are subject to additional factors, including compliance with foreign laws, currency regulations and fluctuations, differing business and social cultures and consumer preferences, diverse government regulations and structures, availability and cost of land and construction, ability to source high-quality ingredients and other commodities in a cost-effective manner, and differing interpretation of the obligations established in franchise agreements with international franchisees. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our international operations will achieve or maintain profitability or meet planned growth rates. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 17 Table of Contents 