Item 1A. Risk FactorsThis Form 10-K, including Item 1A ("Risk Factors"), may contain various forward-looking statements and includes assumptions concerning the Company’s operations, future results and prospects. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and are subject to risk and uncertainties. In connection with the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the Company provides this cautionary statement identifying important economic, political and technological factors, among others, the absence or effect of which could cause the actual results or events to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by the forward-looking statements and related assumptions. Such factors include the following: (1) the impact on business conditions in general, and on the demand for product in the A&E industries in particular, of the global economic outlook, including the continuation of military spending at or near current levels and the availability of capital and 4liquidity from banks and other providers of credit; (2) the future business environment, including capital and consumer spending; (3) competitive factors, including the ability to replace business that may be lost; (4) metals and commodities price increases and the Company’s ability to recover such price increases; (5) successful development and market introduction of new products and services; (6) continued reliance on consumer acceptance of regional and business aircraft powered by more fuel efficient turboprop engines; (7) continued reliance on military spending, in general, and/or several major customers, in particular, for revenues; (8) the impact on future contributions to the Company’s defined benefit pension plans due to changes in actuarial assumptions, government regulations and the market value of plan assets; (9) stable governments, business conditions, laws, regulations and taxes in economies where business is conducted; and (10) the ability to successfully integrate businesses that may be acquired into the Company’s operations. In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K and our other filings with the SEC, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business before investing in our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us and are not listed in any order of magnitude or likelihood of occurrence. Additional risks and uncertainties, not presently known to us or otherwise, may also impair our business. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. All written and verbal descriptions of our business, operations and assets and all forward-looking statements attributable to the Company or any person acting on the Company’s behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the risks, uncertainties, and cautionary statements contained herein.Global economic conditions may adversely impact our business, operating results or financial condition. Disruption and volatility in global financial markets may lead to increased rates of default and bankruptcy and may negatively impact consumer spending levels. These macroeconomic developments could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Current or potential customers may delay or decrease spending on our products and services as their business and/or budgets are impacted by economic conditions. The inability of current and potential customers to pay SIFCO for its products and services may adversely affect its earnings and cash flows.Government spending priorities and terms may change in a manner adverse to our business.At times, our military business has been adversely affected by significant changes in U.S. defense and national security budgets. Budget changes that result in a decline in overall spending, program delays, program cancellations or a slowing of new program starts on programs in which we participate could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations. Future levels of expenditures and authorizations for defense-related programs by the U.S. government may decrease, remain constant or shift to programs in areas where we do not currently provide products, thereby reducing the chances that we will be awarded new contracts. SIFCO has contracts for programs where the period of performance may exceed one year. Congress and certain foreign governments must usually approve funds for a given program each fiscal year and may significantly reduce funding of a program in a particular year. Significant reductions in these appropriations or the amount of new defense contracts awarded may affect our ability to complete contracts, obtain new work and grow our business. Congress does not always enact spending bills by the beginning of the new fiscal year. Such delays leave the affected agencies under-funded, which delay their ability to contract. Future delays and uncertainties in funding could impose additional business risks on us. A deadlock in the U.S. Congress over budgets and spending could cause another partial shutdown of the U.S. government, which could result in a termination or suspension of some or all of our contracts with suppliers to the U.S. government.Congress may fail to pass a budget or continuing resolution, which would result in a partial shutdown of the U.S. government and cause the termination or suspension of our contracts with suppliers to the U.S. government. SIFCO would be required to furlough affected employees for an indefinite time. It is uncertain in such a circumstance if we would be compensated or reimbursed for any loss of revenue during such a shutdown. If we were not compensated or reimbursed, it could result in significant adverse effects on our revenues, operating costs and cash flows.Further consolidation in the aerospace industry could adversely affect our business and financial results. The aerospace and defense industry is experiencing significant consolidation, including among its customers, competitors and suppliers. Consolidation among our customers in the industry may result in delays in the award of new contracts and losses of existing business for SIFCO. Consolidation among our competitors may result in larger competitors with greater resources and market share, which could adversely affect our ability to compete successfully. Consolidation among our suppliers may result in fewer sources of supply and increased cost to SIFCO.5Changes in future business or other market conditions could cause business investments and/or recorded goodwill or other long- term assets to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would reduce our results of operations.As part of our strategy, we will, from time to time, acquire a business. These investments are made upon careful analysis and due diligence procedures designed to achieve a desired return or strategic objective. These procedures often involve certain assumptions and judgment in determining acquisition price. After acquisition, unforeseen issues could arise that adversely affect the anticipated returns, or which are otherwise not recoverable as an adjustment to the purchase price. Even after diligent integration efforts, actual operating results may vary significantly from initial estimates. We evaluate the recorded goodwill balances for potential impairment annually as of July 31, or when circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The goodwill impairment test is performed by comparing the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value, including recorded goodwill. Any future impairment could result in substantial losses and write-downs that would reduce our results of operations. We are subject to the cyclical nature of the aerospace and energy industries and any future downturn in these industries could adversely impact the demand for our products. Our business may be affected by certain characteristics and trends of the A&E market that affect its customers, such as fluctuations in the aerospace industry’s business cycle, varying fuel and labor costs, intense price competition and regulatory scrutiny, a possible decrease in aviation activity, a decrease in outsourcing by aircraft manufacturers or the failure of projected market growth to materialize or continue. In the event that these characteristics and trends adversely affect customers in the aerospace industry, they may reduce the overall demand for our products.Failure to retain existing contracts or win new contracts under competitive bidding processes may adversely affect our sales. SIFCO obtains most of its contracts through a competitive bidding process, and substantially all of the business that we expect to seek in the foreseeable future likely will be subject to a competitive bidding process. Competitive bidding presents a number of risks, including: •the need to compete against companies or teams of companies with more financial and marketing resources and more experience in bidding on and performing major contracts than we have;•the need to compete against companies or teams of companies that may be long-term, entrenched incumbents for a particular contract for which we are competing and that have, as a result, greater domain expertise and better customer relations;•the need to compete to retain existing contracts that have in the past been awarded to us on a sole-source basis or that have been incumbent for a long time;•the award of contracts to providers offering solutions at the “lowest price technically acceptable,” which may lower the profit we may generate under a contract awarded using this pricing method or prevent us from submitting a bid for such work due to us deeming such work to be unprofitable;•the reduction of margins achievable under any contracts awarded to us;•the need to bid on some programs in advance of the completion of their specifications, which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties or increased costs that lower our profitability;•the substantial cost and managerial time and effort, including design, development and marketing activities, necessary to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us;•the need to develop, introduce and implement new and enhanced solutions to our customers’ needs;•the need to locate and contract with teaming partners and subcontractors; and •the need to accurately estimate the resources and cost structure that will be required to perform any contract that we are awarded.If SIFCO wins a contract, and upon expiration, the customer requires further services of the type provided by the contract, there is frequently a competitive rebidding process. There can be no assurance that we will win any particular bid, that we will win the contract at the same profit margin, or that we will be able to replace business lost upon expiration or completion of a contract.If SIFCO is unable to consistently retain existing contracts or win new contract awards, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.We may not receive the full amounts estimated under the contracts in our total backlog, which could reduce our sales in future periods below the levels anticipated, and which makes backlog an uncertain indicator of future operating results.As of September 30, 2014, the total backlog was $86.7 million. Orders may be canceled and scope adjustments may occur, and we may not realize the full amounts of sales that we may anticipate in our backlog numbers. Additionally, the timing of receipt 6of sales, if any, on contracts included in our backlog could change. The failure to realize amounts reflected in our backlog could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations in future periods.Our failure to identify, attract and retain qualified personnel could adversely affect our existing business, financial condition and results of operations. SIFCO may not be able to identify, attract or retain qualified technical personnel, sales and customer service personnel, employees with expertise in forging, or management personnel to supervise such activities. We may also not attract and retain employees who share the Company's core values, can maintain and grow our existing business, and are suited to work in a public company environment, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our business could be negatively affected by cyber or other security threats or other disruptions. SIFCO faces cyber threats, threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees, including senior executives, and terrorist acts, as well as the potential for business disruptions associated with information technology failures, damaging weather or other acts of nature, and pandemics or other public health crises, which may adversely affect our business. SIFCO experiences cyber security threats, threats to our information technology infrastructure and attempts to gain access to the Company's sensitive information, as do our customers, suppliers and subcontractors. SIFCO may experience similar security threats at customer sites that we operate and manage as a contractual requirement. Prior cyber-attacks directed at us have not had a material impact on our financial results, and we believe our threat detection and mitigation processes and procedures are robust. Due to the evolving nature of these security threats, however, the impact of any future incident cannot be predicted. Although SIFCO works cooperatively with our customers and our suppliers and subcontractors to seek to minimize the impacts of cyber threats, other security threats or business disruptions, in addition to our internal processes, procedures and systems, it must also rely on the safeguards put in place by those entities. The costs related to cyber or other security threats or disruptions may not be fully mitigated by insurance or other means. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our internal operations, the services we provide to customers, our competitive advantages, our future financial results, our reputation, our stock price, and lead to early obsolescence of our products and services. The occurrence of any of these events could also result in civil and/or criminal liabilities.We rely on our suppliers to meet the quality or delivery expectations of our customers.The ability to deliver SIFCO's products and services on schedule is dependent upon a variety of factors, including execution of internal performance plans, availability of raw materials, internal and supplier produced parts and structures, conversion of raw materials into parts and assemblies, and performance of suppliers and others. We rely on numerous third-party suppliers for raw materials and a large proportion of the components used in our production process. Certain of these raw materials and components are available only from single sources or a limited number of suppliers, or similarly, customers’ specifications may require SIFCO to obtain raw materials and/or components from a single source or certain suppliers. Many of our suppliers are small companies with limited financial resources and manufacturing capabilities. We do not currently have the ability to manufacture these components ourselves. Consequently, we risk disruptions in our supply of key products and components if our suppliers fail or are unable to perform because of shortages in raw materials, operational problems, strikes, natural disasters, financial condition or other factors. We may have disputes with our vendors arising from, among other things, the quality of products and services or customer concerns about the vendor. If any of our vendors fail to timely meet their contractual obligations or have regulatory compliance or other problems, our ability to fulfill our obligations may be jeopardized. Economic downturns can adversely affect a vendor’s ability to manufacture or deliver products. Further, vendors may also be enjoined from manufacturing and distributing products to us as a result of litigation filed by third parties, including intellectual property litigation. If SIFCO were to experience difficulty in obtaining certain products, there could be an adverse effect on its results of operations and on its customer relationships and our reputation. Additionally, our key vendors could also increase pricing of their products, which could negatively affect our ability to win contracts by offering competitive prices.Any material supply disruptions could adversely affect our ability to perform our obligations under our contracts and could result in cancellation of contracts or purchase orders, penalties, delays in realizing revenues, and payment delays, as well as adversely affect our ongoing product cost structure.7Failure to perform by our subcontractors could materially and adversely affect our contract performance and our ability to obtain future business. Our performance of contracts often involves subcontractors, upon which we rely to complete delivery of products to our customers. SIFCO may have disputes with subcontractors. A failure by a subcontractor to satisfactorily deliver products can adversely affect our ability to perform our obligations as a prime contractor. Any subcontractor performance deficiencies could result in the customer terminating our contract for default, which could expose us to liability for excess costs of re-procurement by the customer and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for other contracts.Our future success will depend on our ability to meet the needs of our customer requirements in a timely manner.We believe that the commercial A&E markets in which we operate are changing toward more sophisticated manufacturing and system-integration techniques and capabilities using composite and metallic materials. Our future success depends to a significant extent on our ability to acquire and/or develop and execute such sophisticated techniques and capabilities to meet the needs of our customers and to bring those products to market quickly and at cost-effective prices. Accordingly, our performance depends on a number of factors, including our ability to:•identify emerging trends in our current and target markets;•develop and maintain competitive products and capabilities that meet our customers' requirements; and•develop, manufacture and bring to market cost-effective offerings in the most efficient manner. If we are unable to acquire and/or develop and execute such techniques and capabilities, we may experience an adverse effect to our business, financial condition or results of operation. The terms of our financing arrangements may restrict our financial and operational flexibility, including our ability to invest in new business opportunities. The Company currently has a $30.0 million secured revolving credit agreement that expires in October 2016. We also have a $10.0 million term loan, secured by substantially all the assets of the Company and its U.S. subsidiaries and a pledge of 65% of the stock of our non-U.S. subsidiary. The term loan is repayable in quarterly installments of $0.5 million, which began December 2011. As of September 30, 2014, the loan balance was $4.0 million. The loans are subject to certain customary financial covenants, including, without limitation, covenants that require us to not exceed a maximum leverage ratio and to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. In the event of a default, we would not be able to access our revolver, which could impact the ability to fund working capital needs, capital expenditures and invest in new business opportunities.We face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be covered adequately by insurance or indemnity. We are exposed to liabilities that are unique to the products we provide. While we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of insurance or indemnity may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and we may be forced to bear substantial costs from an accident or incident. It also is not possible for SIFCO to obtain insurance to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. Substantial claims resulting from an incident in excess of the indemnification we receive and our insurance coverage would harm our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Moreover, any accident or incident for which we are liable, even if fully insured, could negatively affect our standing with our customers and the public, thereby making it more difficult for us to compete effectively, and could significantly impact the cost and availability of adequate insurance in the future. We may acquire other companies, which could increase our levels of debt, increase costs or liabilities, require alternative forms of capital, increase competition, or be disruptive to our business. Part of our strategy involves the acquisition of other companies. For example, in July 2013, we completed the purchase of the forging business and substantially all related operating assets from MW General, Inc. We cannot ensure that we will be able to integrate acquired companies successfully without substantial expense, delay or operational or financial problems. Such expenses, delays or operational or financial problems may include the following:•we may need to divert management resources to integration, which may adversely affect our ability to pursue other more profitable activities;•integration may be difficult as a result of the necessity of coordinating geographically separated organizations, 8integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds and combining different corporate cultures;•we may not be able to eliminate redundant costs anticipated at the time we select acquisition candidates; and•one or more of our acquisition candidates may have unexpected liabilities, fraud risk, or adverse operating issues that we fail to discover through our due diligence procedures prior to the acquisition.As a result, the integration of acquired businesses may be costly and may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.The funding and costs associated with our pension plans and significant changes in key estimates and assumptions, such as discount rates and assumed long-term returns on assets, actual investment returns on our pension plan assets, and legislative and regulatory actions could affect our earnings, equity and contributions to our pension plans in future periods.Certain of our employees are covered by its noncontributory defined benefit pension plans ("Plans"). The impact of these Plans on our GAAP earnings may be volatile in that the amount of expense we record for our pension plans may materially change from year to year because those calculations are sensitive to changes in several key economic assumptions, including discount rates, inflation, salary growth, expected return on plan assets, retirement rates and mortality rates. These pension costs are dependent on significant judgment in the use of various estimates and assumptions, particularly with respect to the discount rate and expected long-term rates of return on plan assets. Changes to these estimates and assumptions could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Differences between actual investment returns and our assumed long-term returns on assets will result in changes in future pension expense and the funded status of our Plans, and could increase future funding of the Plans. Changes in these factors affect our plan funding, cash flows, earnings, and shareholders’ equity.The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. An active, liquid and orderly market for our common stock may not be sustained, which could depress the trading price of our common stock. Volatility in the market price of our common stock may prevent you from being able to sell your shares at or above the price you paid for your shares or at all. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for various reasons, which include:•our quarterly or annual earnings or those of our competitors;•the public’s reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission;•changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts who track the stocks of our competitors;•new laws or regulations or new interpretations of laws or regulations applicable to our business;•changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;•changes in general conditions in the domestic and global economies or financial markets, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to such events;•litigation involving our company or investigations or audits by regulators into the operations of our company or our competitors;•strategic action by our competitors; and•sales of common stock by our directors, executive officers and significant shareholders. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Broad market and industry factors may seriously affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of actual operating performance. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. If litigation is instituted against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources.If we are unable to pay annual dividends at the targeted level, our reputation and stock price may be harmed. The dividend program requires the use of a portion of our cash flows. Our ability to continue to pay annual dividends will depend in large part on our ability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future. This ability may be subject to certain economic, financial, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. The board of directors may, at its discretion, decrease the targeted annual dividend amount or entirely discontinue the payment of dividends at any time. Any failure to pay dividends after we have announced the intention to do so may adversely affect our reputation and investor confidence in SIFCO and negatively impact our stock price.9If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our common stock.In connection with our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2014, we concluded there were two material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting related to identified control deficiencies with respect to the precision and sufficiency of reviews performed on reconciliations and calculations around inventory related items and certain segregation of duties issues surrounding information technology at one facility. Under standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, a material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected or corrected on a timely basis. We have taken steps and plan to take additional measures to remediate the underlying causes of the material weaknesses, primarily through the continued development and implementation of formal policies, improved processes and documented procedures, as well as changes in our software. The actions that we are taking are subject to ongoing senior management review, as well as audit committee oversight. Although we plan to complete this remediation as quickly as possible, we cannot at this time estimate how long it will take, and our initiatives may not prove to be successful in remediating this material weakness. As with any material weakness, our remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weaknesses, or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results.Increased competition from low-cost providers and customer pricing pressures could reduce the demand and/or price for our products and services.The aerospace and non-aerospace end-use markets SIFCO serves are highly competitive and price sensitive. In both of these markets, we compete worldwide with a number of domestic and international companies that have substantially greater manufacturing, purchasing, marketing and financial resources than we do. Many of SIFCO's customers have the in-house capability to fulfill their manufacturing requirements. SIFCO's larger competitors may be able to vie more effectively for very large-scale contracts than we can by providing different or greater capabilities or benefits such as technical qualifications, past performance on large-scale contracts, geographic presence, price and availability of key professional personnel. If SIFCO is unable to successfully compete for new business, our net sales growth and operating margins may decline. Several of SIFCO's major customers have completed extensive cost containment efforts and SIFCO expects continued pricing pressures in 2015 and beyond. Competitive pricing pressures may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Further, there can be no assurance that competition from existing or potential competitors will not have a material adverse effect on our financial results. If SIFCO does not continue to compete effectively and win contracts, our future business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to meet its financial obligations may be materially compromised.The occurrence of litigation where we could be named as a defendant is unpredictable.From time to time, we are involved in various legal and other proceedings that are incidental to the conduct of our business. While we believe no current proceedings, if adversely determined, could have a material adverse effect on our financial results, no assurances can be given. Any such claims may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.Damage or destruction of our facilities caused by storms, earthquakes or other causes could adversely affect our financial results and financial condition.We have operations located in regions of the U.S. that may be exposed to damaging storms, earthquakes and other natural disasters. Although we maintain standard property casualty insurance covering our properties and may be able to recover costs associated with certain natural disasters through insurance, we do not carry any earthquake insurance based on our assessment of the potential risk to our equipment and facilities. Two of our properties are located in Southern California, an area subject to earthquake activity. Even if covered by insurance, any significant damage or destruction of our facilities due to storms, earthquakes or other natural disasters could result in its inability to meet customer delivery schedules and may result in the loss of customers and significant additional costs to SIFCO. Thus, any significant damage or destruction of our properties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.10Labor disruptions by our employees could adversely affect our business.As of September 30, 2014, we employed approximately 465 people. Two of our operating locations are parties to collective bargaining agreements, covering 115 full time hourly employees and 36 full time hourly employees, and will expire May 2015 and July 2017, respectively. Although we have not experienced any material labor-related work stoppage and consider our relations with our employees to be good, labor stoppages may occur in the future. If the unionized workers were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, if SIFCO is unable to negotiate acceptable collective bargaining agreements with the unions or if other employees were to become unionized, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations, higher ongoing labor costs and possible loss of customer contracts, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.Market volatility and adverse capital or credit market conditions may affect our ability to access cost-effective sources of funding and may expose SIFCO to risks associated with the financial viability of suppliers. The financial markets can experience high levels of volatility and disruption, reducing the availability of credit for certain issuers. We sometimes access these markets to support certain business activities, including acquisitions and capital expansion projects, obtaining credit support for our workers' compensation self-insurance program and refinancing existing indebtedness. Depending on the condition of the capital or credit markets existing at the time, we may be unable in the future to obtain capital market financing or bank financing on favorable terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Tightening credit markets could also adversely affect our suppliers' ability to obtain financing. Delays in suppliers' ability to obtain financing, or the unavailability of financing, could negatively affect their ability to perform their contracts with SIFCO and cause our inability to meet our contract obligations. The inability of our suppliers to obtain financing could also result in the need for us to transition to alternate suppliers, which could result in significant incremental costs and delays. Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability and cash flow. We are subject to income taxes in the United States. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Changes in applicable income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates or changes in the taxability of certain sales or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our income tax expense and profitability. In addition, the final results of any tax audits or related litigation could be materially different from our related historical income tax provisions and accruals. Additionally, changes in our tax rate as a result of changes in our overall profitability, changes in tax legislation, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in differences between financial reporting income and taxable income, the examination of previously filed tax returns by taxing authorities and continuing assessments of our tax exposures can also impact our tax liabilities and affect our income tax expense, profitability and cash flow.We use estimates when pricing contracts and any changes in such estimates could have an adverse effect on our profitability and our overall financial performance.When agreeing to contractual terms, we make assumptions and projections about future conditions and events, many of which extend over long periods. These projections assess the productivity and availability of labor, complexity of the work to be performed, cost and availability of materials, impact of delayed performance and timing of product deliveries. Contract pricing requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. Due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and costs at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. For example, assumptions are made regarding the length of time to complete a contract since costs also include expected increases in wages, prices for materials and allocated fixed costs. Similarly, assumptions are made regarding the future impact of our efficiency initiatives and cost reduction efforts. Incentives, awards or penalties related to performance on contracts are considered in estimating revenue and profit rates and are recorded when there is sufficient information to assess anticipated performance. Suppliers' assertions are also assessed and considered in estimating costs and profit rates.Because of the significance of the judgment and estimation processes described above, it is possible that materially different amounts could be obtained if different assumptions were used or if the underlying circumstances were to change. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may have a material adverse effect upon the profitability of one or more of the affected contracts, future period financial reporting and performance. 11Our technologies could become obsolete, reducing our revenues and profitability. The future of our business will depend in large part upon the continuing relevance of our forging capabilities. SIFCO could encounter competition from new or revised technologies that render its technologies and equipment less profitable or obsolete in our chosen markets and our operating results may suffer. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsThe Company has no unresolved comments.