Risk Factors If Petrojarl, our former production business, fails to meet its indemnification obligations to us or if we are subject to liabilities for which Petrojarl has not agreed to indemnify us, our business, results of operation or financial condition could be harmed. In June 2006, we completed the demerger of our former production business, Petrojarl. Following the demerger of Petrojarl we retained a joint secondary liability for certain obligations of Petrojarl. Petrojarl has in connection with the demerger agreed to indemnify us from liabilities related to its operations. Such liabilities include liabilities related to the floating production, storage and offloading units, or “FPSOs”, that we transferred to Petrojarl in connection with the demerger. With respect to Petrojarl Foinaven FPSO, we have provided a separate on demand guarantee in connection with the demerger. The guarantee is made in relation to the FPSO service agreement and is for the benefit of the Foinaven co-venturers, which is capped at $10 million. With respect to Petrojarl Banff FPSO, we remain with a joint secondary liability with Petrojarl under their FPSO service agreement with the Banff group. The guarantee is not capped. If these claims are made and Petrojarl does not honor its obligation to indemnify us, it could adversely affect our business, results of operation or financial condition. With respect to Petrojarl Foinaven, the UK Inland Revenue has raised an issue about the accelerated rate at which tax depreciation is available. As part of the demerger plan, we agreed to reimburse Petrojarl for 50% of any payment in excess of 13 million British pounds (approximately $25.6 million) related to this liability. Based on past correspondence with external advisors we believe that the maximum exposure would be 7 million British pounds (approximately $13.8 million) for us. We have not recorded any provision for this possible contingent loss because we do not believe it is probable that any payment will be made. 12 Table of Contents For additional information about our former UK leases, please read “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Liquidity and Capital Resources — UK Leases” in Item 5 of this annual report. Our share repurchase program could increase the volatility of the price and decrease the liquidity of our ordinary shares. In December 2006, our shareholders approved a share repurchase program at an extraordinary general meeting. Under this program, we are authorized to purchase up to 10% of our share capital. This authorization by our shareholders is valid for seven months after registration, or until approximately July 2007. We intend to propose that our shareholders approve an extension of this program for an additional twelve-month period at our annual general meeting in June 2007. Under the program, we can repurchase our shares from time to time at prevailing market prices on the open markets where our ordinary shares are traded. The existence of our share repurchase program and any purchases under this program could increase the volatility of the price and/or decrease the liquidity of our ordinary shares. We will require a significant amount of cash for our share repurchase program. If we elect to repurchase a significant number of our shares under our share repurchase program, such repurchases could require a significant amount of cash. To the extent we use our cash resources to repurchase our shares, we will have less cash resources for operations and to fund growth opportunities, new development initiatives and unanticipated capital expenditures. Our ability to repurchase shares will depend on our ability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future. This ability may be subject to certain economic, financial, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. We are a multinational organization faced with increasingly complex tax issues in many jurisdictions, and we could be obligated to pay additional taxes in various jurisdictions. As a multinational organization, we are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions around the world with increasingly complex tax laws. The amounts of taxes we pay in these jurisdictions could increase substantially as a result of changes in these laws or their interpretations by the relevant taxing authorities, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and results of operations. In addition, those authorities could review our tax returns and impose additional taxes and penalties, which could be material. We have identified issues in several jurisdictions that could eventually make us liable to pay material amounts in taxes relating to prior years. We also have some tax indemnity exposure relating to the rate at which capital allowances can be claimed under the UK lease for Petrojarl Foinaven, which was transferred to Petrojarl in connection with the demerger of our former production business. Additional issues that we are not currently aware of may be identified in the future. Because we are a foreign company and many of our directors and executive officers are not residents of the United States, you may have difficulty suing us and obtaining or enforcing judgments against us. We are incorporated in the Kingdom of Norway, and substantially all of our current directors and executive officers reside outside the United States. All or a substantial portion of the assets of these persons and our company are located outside the United States. As a result, you may have difficulty: • suing us or our directors and executive officers in the United States; • obtaining a judgment in the Kingdom of Norway in an original action based solely on United States federal securities laws; and • enforcing in the Kingdom of Norway judgments obtained in the United States courts that are based upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws. We could be adversely affected by violations of applicable anti-corruption laws. We and our affiliated entities conduct business in countries known to experience government corruption. We are committed to doing business in accordance with applicable anti-corruption laws and our code of conduct. However there is a risk that we, our affiliated entities or our or their respective officers, directors, employees and 13 Table of Contents agents may take action in violation of such anti-corruption laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977. Any such violations could result in substantial civil and/or criminal penalties and might adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. 