Risk Factors We are a multinational organization faced with increasingly complex tax issues in many jurisdictions, and we could be obligated to pay additional taxes in various jurisdictions. As a multinational organization, we are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions around the world with increasingly complex tax laws. The amounts of taxes we pay in these jurisdictions could increase substantially as a result of changes in these laws or their interpretations by the relevant taxing authorities, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and results of operations. In addition, those authorities could review our tax returns and impose additional taxes and penalties, which could be material. We have identified issues in several jurisdictions that could eventually make us liable to pay material amounts in taxes relating to prior years. We also have an issue relating to the rate at which capital allowances can be claimed under the UK lease for Petrojarl Foinaven. Additional issues that we are not currently aware of may be identified in the future. Because we are a foreign company and many of our directors and executive officers are not residents of the United States, you may have difficulty suing us and obtaining or enforcing judgments against us. We are incorporated in the Kingdom of Norway, and substantially all of our current directors and executive officers reside outside the United States. All or a substantial portion of the assets of these persons and our company are located outside the United States. As a result, you may have difficulty: • suing us or our directors and executive officers in the United States; • obtaining a judgment in the Kingdom of Norway in an original action based solely on United States federal securities laws; and • enforcing in the Kingdom of Norway judgments obtained in the United States courts that are based upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws. We could be adversely affected by violations of applicable anti-corruption laws. We and our affiliated entities conduct business in countries known to experience government corruption. We are committed to doing business in accordance with our code of conduct, but there is a risk that we, our affiliated entities or our or their respective officers, directors, employees and agents may take action in violation of applicable anti-corruption laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977. Any such violations could result in substantial civil and/or criminal penalties and might adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. 