ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces many risks. Any of the risks discussed below, or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in our other SEC filings, could have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial might also impair our business operations. Our sales could be negatively impacted by product trends, continued industry consolidation and contraction, as well as a decision by our major customers to substantially reduce orders for our products. Over the past several years, department stores have consolidated, the gift and specialty store channel has contracted, and the collectible and fine china markets have contracted as well. A continuation of these trends could have a negative impact on the sales of the Company. With the exception of Macy’s, Inc., our customer base is relatively dispersed. Our sales to this customer accounted for approximately 17% of our net sales for fiscal year 2007. If Macy’s, Inc. were to cease or significantly reduce their business with us, our business and results of operations would be negatively impacted. Our reliance on foreign manufacturing is subject to inherent risk, which may affect our ability to procure goods and/or procure them in a timely fashion. Foreign manufacturing and procurement of imports is subject to the following inherent risks: labor availability and increases in labor costs, increases in the cost of raw materials, economic and political instability; cost and capacity fluctuations and delays in transportation, dockage and material handling; restrictive actions by governments; nationalizations; the laws and policies of the United States affecting importation of goods (including duties, quota and taxes); international political, military and terrorist developments; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and foreign trade and tax laws. Moreover, we cannot predict what relevant political, legal or regulatory changes may occur, or the type or amount of any financial impact on us that such changes may have in the future. Our products are subject to customs duties and regulations pertaining to the importation of goods. In the ordinary course of business, we may be involved in disputes with the U.S. Bureau of Customs and Border Protection (“U.S. Customs”) regarding the amount of duty to be paid, the value of merchandise to be reported or other Customs regulations, which may result in the payment of additional duties and/or penalties, or in the refund of duties to us. Since the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, U.S. Customs has enacted various security protocols affecting the importation of goods. Such protocols could adversely affect the speed or cost involved in our receipt of inventory from our overseas vendors. The inability to make timely shipments of merchandise to our trade customers due to delays caused by foreign sourcing could significantly lower sales and damage our relationship with trade customers resulting in harm to our business and our financial results. Our reliance on manufacturing from sources within China, in particular, is subject to inherent risk, which may affect our ability to procure goods and/or procure them in a timely fashion. In fiscal year 2007, approximately 66% of our inventory purchases were manufactured in China. China has joined the World Trade Organization and been accorded permanent “Normal Trade Relations” status by the U.S. government. However, various commercial and legal practices in China, including the handling of intellectual property and certain labor practices, are under review by the U.S. government. China has been designated a Country of Particular Concern pursuant to the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 (“IRFA”). The IRFA enumerates several specific retaliatory actions that may be taken by the U.S. government, none of which we believe would have a material impact on our business. The IRFA, however, also accords the President broad discretion in fashioning other or additional actions and, due to the breadth of the Presidential powers under the IRFA, we are unable to predict what, if any, action the President could take in the future. 7 Table of Contents Accordingly, in addition to general foreign manufacturing risks cited above, the ability to continue to conduct business with vendors located in China is subject to political uncertainties, the financial impact of which we are unable to estimate. To the extent China may have its exports or transaction of business with U.S. persons subject to political retaliation, the cost of Chinese imports could increase significantly and/or the ability to import goods from China may be materially impaired. In such an event, there could be a materially adverse effect on us until alternative arrangements for the manufacture of our products were obtained on economic, production and operational terms at least as favorable as those currently in effect. We are subject to risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates present risks inherent in our method of inventory procurement. Our costs could be adversely affected if the currencies of other countries in which we source product appreciate significantly relative to the U.S. dollar. This could result, for example, from a decision by China to revalue the Renminbi (“RNB”) relative to the U.S. dollar or to allow the RNB to float instead of being pegged to the U.S. dollar at a fixed rate. If interest rates on our variable rate debt were to increase, our financial results would be negatively affected. A principal market risk affecting us is the exposure to changes in the interest rates on our variable rate debt. As our credit facilities bear interest at variable rates, our results of operations and cash flows will be exposed to changes in interest rates. In 2007, the Company entered into an interest rate collar agreement with a notional amount of $50 million to mitigate some of this variable interest rate risk. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company would receive a positive net settlement from the counterparty if the LIBOR rate (as defined) is greater than 6.5% on the settlement dates (as defined). If the LIBOR rate (as defined) is less than 4.32% on the settlement dates (as defined), the Company would be required to make a payment to the counterparty. Based on debt outstanding as of December 29, 2007 and the interest rate collar agreement in effect as of December 29, 2007, a one percentage point increase in current market interest rates would increase the Company’s borrowing costs by approximately $1.1 million on an annual basis. A one percentage point decrease in current market interest rates would reduce the Company’s borrowing costs by approximately $0.8 million on an annual basis. We may encounter litigation that has a material impact on our business. We are involved on an ongoing basis in litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. Trends in litigation may include claims brought by consumers, stockholders, vendors, accounts and/or injured persons in cases relating to antitrust, employment and labor, environmental, negligence and regulatory matters. Litigation trends and the outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and adverse litigation trends and outcomes could adversely affect our financial results. Our inability to adapt successfully to changing consumer preferences may damage our business. Our success is dependent upon consumer demand for our products. Our ability to anticipate consumer preferences and create tabletop, gift and collectible products which appeal to consumers who shop in our market channels is critical to achieving financial results. As a related factor, our ability to identify, hire and retain quality designers and sculptors and other artistic talent is critical to our product development efforts and our ability to innovate successfully. Our failure to successfully anticipate, identify and react to consumers’ current preferences in our market channels, and to identify, hire and retain artistic talent, could significantly lower sales of our products and harm our financial results. If we are unable to complete our operational improvements, including improving our inventory management and forecasting systems to make our supply chain more efficient, improving the effectiveness and efficiency of our US manufacturing operations, and integrating our legacy Department 56 and Lenox information, operating and distribution systems, our business results may be adversely impacted. In response to market changes, including department store consolidation and a decrease in the sales of collectibles and fine tableware over the past few years, we are restructuring our operations to achieve revenue and cost synergies, including a consolidation of our distribution facilities and a reduction-in-force and cost reduction initiative at our North Carolina bone china factory. If we are not successful in doing so, however, the reduced sales resulting from these external market trends may have an adverse impact on our financial results. 8 Table of Contents In addition, we have implemented plans to improve our inventory management and provide more accurate forecasting to enhance the efficiency of our supply chain. The highly seasonal nature of our business, with a majority of our sales occurring in the third and fourth quarters in anticipation of the holiday season, requires us accurately to forecast demand for products in order to avoid losing potential sales of popular products or producing excess inventory of products that are less popular with consumers. Excess inventory poses particular risks to our brand when sold through liquidation channels. If we do not successfully implement and operate our new inventory management and forecasting systems, we may adversely affect our financial results. Following our acquisition of Lenox, we have been working to integrate and update the information systems, operating systems, fulfillment processes and distribution resources of Department 56 and Lenox. If we are unable successfully to integrate and update the systems and functional resources, we will not be able operate in the most effective and cost efficient manner which may have an adverse impact on our financial results. If we are unable to manage employee turnover through our integration of Department 56 and Lenox and the completion of our operational improvement process, our business could be adversely impacted. We value and are dependent on key employees throughout the Company for our business success. In addition, an important element of our strategy is to utilize the expertise of key employees to integrate successfully the legacy Department 56 and Lenox operations and complete our operational improvement process. As a result of the Company’s past performance and current restructuring efforts, employee turnover has occurred and is expected to continue. If employee turnover is not managed effectively, the implementation of business improvements, employee morale and results of our operations could be adversely impacted. The Company’s performance is impacted, in part, on economic and other factors affecting consumer spending that are out of the Company’s control. The Company’s business depends on consumer demand for its products and, consequently, is sensitive to a number of factors that influence consumer spending, including general economic conditions, disposable consumer income, recession and inflation, consumer debt, unemployment rates, interest rates and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Adverse changes in one or more of the foregoing factors could result in a reduction in consumer demand for the Company’s products, reductions in prices leading to lower average gross margins, a slower inventory turnover, greater markdowns on inventory, thus reducing the Company’s sales and adversely impacting its operating results. Our strategic alternative plan announced by the Company in January 2008 may lead to uncertainty or may not be successful. On January 14, 2008, the Company issued a press release announcing a comprehensive review of strategic, financial and operational alternatives to enhance stockholder value, including a potential merger, sale of all or part of the Company or recapitalization of the Company. There can be no assurance that the exploration of strategic alternatives will result in any transaction. During the process, there may be risks that certain customers, employees, suppliers, and business partners may react negatively to the uncertainty of the process. These same constituencies may react negatively in the event the process does not result in any transaction. In the event a transaction is completed, the integration of businesses and personnel may involve significant expenses and management time and attention, and may otherwise disrupt our business. In addition, acquisitions and/or mergers may expose the Company to unknown liabilities. 9 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 