ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following factors are the most significant factors that can impact year-to-year comparisons and may affect the future performance of our businesses. New risks may emerge, and management cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial performance. Our high level of debt, as well as incurrence of additional debt, may limit our operating flexibility, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. We have a high degree of financial leverage. As of December 31, 2008, we had $550.3 million of debt outstanding, net of unamortized discounts and warrants, of which approximately $34.5 million consisted of debt secured by a first-priority lien on our assets and $450.3 million consisted of the Senior Secured Notes, which are secured by a second-priority lien on our collateral, and the PIK Notes, which are secured by a third-priority lien on our collateral. Our ABL Facility provides for borrowings up to $150.0 million by Libbey Glass and Libbey Europe B.V. (a non-guarantor subsidiary), of which, as of December 31, 2008, we had borrowed $34.5 million, with another $8.4 million of availability being used for outstanding letters of credit. As a result of borrowing base limitations, an additional $44.6 million was immediately available for borrowing. We have a loan (“RMB Loan Contract”) in the amount of RMB 250 million (approximately $36.7 million) from China Construction Bank Corporation Langfang Economic Development Area Sub-Branch (“CCBC”). We used the proceeds of the RMB Loan Contract to finance the construction of our greenfield facility in China. As of December 31, 2008, we had borrowed the entire amount available under that line of credit. We also have a loan in the amount of RMB 50 million (approximately $7.3 million) from CCBC to finance the working capital needs of our China facility (“RMB Working Capital Loan”). As of December 31, 2008, we had borrowed the entire amount available under that line of credit. In January 2007, we entered into an 11 million euro loan (approximately $15.5 million) with Banco Espirito Santo, S.A. (“BES Euro Line”). As of December 31, 2008, we had borrowed the entire amount available under that line of credit. Our ABL Facility, the indenture governing the Senior Secured Notes and the indenture governing the PIK Notes require us to comply with certain covenants, including limits on additional indebtedness, certain business activities and investments and, under certain circumstances in the case of our ABL Facility, the maintenance of financial ratios. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis; Capital Resources and Liquidity — Borrowings” below. We may incur additional debt in the future. Our high degree of leverage, as well as the incurrence of additional debt, could have important consequences for our business, such as: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, including with respect to the Senior Secured Notes and the PIK Notes; • limiting our ability to make capital investments in order to expand our business; • limiting our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions or other purposes; • limiting our ability to invest operating cash flow in our business and future business opportunities, because we use a substantial portion of these funds to service debt and because our covenants restrict the amount of our investments; 10 Table of Contents • limiting our ability to withstand business and economic downturns and/or place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt, because of the high percentage of our operating cash flow that is dedicated to servicing our debt; and • limiting our ability to reinstate dividends, which we suspended in February 2009. • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in sufficient amounts and/or on acceptable terms in the near future or when our debt obligations reach maturity. Our ABL Facility expires in December 2010, the Senior Notes expire in June 2011, and the PIK notes expire in December 2011. If we cannot service our debt or if we fail to meet our covenants, we could have substantial liquidity problems. In those circumstances, we might have to sell assets, delay planned investments, obtain additional equity capital or restructure our debt. Depending on the circumstances at the time, we may not be able to accomplish any of these actions on favorable terms or at all. In addition, the indenture governing the Senior Secured Notes and the indenture governing the PIK Notes contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our indebtedness. Our cost-reduction projects may not result in anticipated savings in operating costs. We may not be able to achieve anticipated cost reductions. Our ability to achieve cost savings and other benefits within expected time frames is subject to many estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. If these estimates and assumptions are incorrect, if we experience delays, or if other unforeseen events occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. Slowdowns in the retail, travel, restaurant and bar, or entertainment industries, such as those caused by general economic downturns, terrorism, health concerns or strikes or bankruptcies within those industries, could reduce our revenues and production activity levels. Our business is affected by the health of the retail, travel, restaurant, bar or entertainment industries. Expenditures in these industries are sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels and may decline during general economic downturns. Additionally, travel is sensitive to safety concerns, and thus may decline after incidents of terrorism, during periods of geopolitical conflict in which travelers become concerned about safety issues, or when travel might involve health-related risks. For example, demand for our products in the foodservice industry, which is critical to our success, was significantly impacted by the events of September 11, 2001 and the global economic recession of 2008, particularly in the fourth quarter. Recent volatility in financial markets and the deterioration of national and global economic conditions could materially adversely impact our operations, financial results and/or liquidity including as follows: • the financial stability of our customers or suppliers may be compromised, which could result in additional bad debts for the Company or non-performance by suppliers; • it may become more costly or difficult to obtain financing or refinance our debt in the future; • the value of our assets held in pension plans may decline; and/or • our assets may be impaired or subject to write down or write off. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions may cause consumers of our products to postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values. This could have a material adverse impact on the demand for our products and on our financial condition and operating results. A further deterioration of economic conditions would likely exacerbate these adverse effects and could result in a wide-ranging and prolonged impact on general business conditions, thereby negatively impacting our operations, financial results and/or liquidity. 11 Table of Contents If we have a fair value impairment in a business segment, net earnings and net worth could be materially adversely affected by a write down of goodwill or intangible assets. We have $192.9 million of goodwill and intangible assets recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2008. We are required to periodically determine if our goodwill or intangible assets have become impaired, in which case we would write down the impaired portion of these assets. We recorded a charge of $11.9 million in 2008 to write down a portion of our goodwill and intangible assets. If we were required to write down all or a significant portion of our goodwill or intangible assets, our net earnings and net worth could be materially adversely affected. We face intense competition and competitive pressures that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is highly competitive, with the principal competitive factors being customer service, price, product quality, new product development, brand name, and delivery time. Advantages or disadvantages in any of these competitive factors may be sufficient to cause the customer to consider changing manufacturers. Competitors in glass tableware include, among others: • Imports from around the world, including varied and numerous factories from China; • Arc International (a private French company), which manufactures and distributes glass tableware worldwide; • Pasabahce (a unit of Sisecam, a Turkish company), which manufactures glass tableware at various sites throughout the world and sells to all sectors of the glass industry worldwide; • Oneida Ltd., which sources glass tableware from foreign manufacturers; • The Anchor Hocking Company (which is owned by Monomoy Capital Partners, L.P.), which manufactures and distributes glass beverageware, industrial products and bakeware to primarily to the retail, industrial and foodservice markets; • Bormioli Rocco Group, which manufactures glass tableware in Europe, where the majority of its sales are to retail and foodservice customers; and • Numerous other sourcing companies. In addition, tableware made of other materials such as plastics competes with glassware. Some of our competitors have greater financial and capital resources than we do and continue to invest heavily to achieve increased production efficiencies. Competitors may have incorporated more advanced technology in their manufacturing processes, including more advanced automation techniques. Our labor and energy costs may also be higher than those of some foreign producers of glass tableware. We may not be successful in managing our labor and energy costs or gaining operating efficiencies that may be necessary to remain competitive. In addition, our products may be subject to competition from low-cost imports that intensify the price competition we face in our markets. Finally, we may need to increase incentive payments in our marketing incentive programs in order to remain competitive. Increases in these payments would adversely affect our operating margins. Competitors in the U.S. market for ceramic dinnerware include, among others: Homer Laughlin; Oneida Ltd.; Steelite; and various sourcing companies. Competitors in metalware include, among others: Oneida Ltd.; Walco, Inc.; and various sourcing companies. Competitors in plastic products include, among others: Cambro Manufacturing Company; Carlisle Companies Incorporated; and various sourcing companies. In Mexico, where a larger portion of our sales are in the retail market, our primary competitors include imports from foreign manufacturers located in countries such as China, France, Italy and Colombia, and Vidriera Santos and Vitro Par in the candle category. Competitive pressures from these competitors and producers could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents International economic and political factors could affect demand for imports and exports, and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted as a result. Our operations may be affected by actions of foreign governments and global or regional economic developments. Global economic events, such as changes in foreign import/export policy, the cost of complying with environmental regulations or currency fluctuations, could also affect the level of U.S. imports and exports, thereby affecting our sales. Foreign subsidies, foreign trade agreements and each country’s adherence to the terms of these agreements can raise or lower demand for our products. National and international boycotts and embargoes of other countries’ or U.S. imports and/or exports, together with the raising or lowering of tariff rates, could affect the level of competition between our foreign competitors and us. Foreign competition has, in the past, and may, in the future, result in increased low-cost imports that drive prices downward. The World Trade Organization met in November 2001 in Doha, Qatar, where members launched new multilateral trade negotiations aimed at improving market access, reducing and eventually phasing out all forms of export subsidies and substantially reducing trade-distorting domestic support. The current trade-weighted tariff rate applicable to glass tableware products that are imported into the U.S. and are of the type we manufacture in North America is approximately 18.4 percent. However, any negative changes to international agreements that lower duties or improve access to U.S. markets for our competitors, particularly changes arising out of the World Trade Organization’s Doha round of negotiations (although none are expected in 2009), could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As we execute our strategy of acquiring manufacturing platforms in lower cost regions and increasing our volume of sales in overseas markets, our dependence on international markets and our ability to effectively manage these risks has increased and will continue to increase significantly. We may not be able to effectively integrate future businesses we acquire. Any future acquisitions are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including: • the inability to integrate effectively the operations, products, technologies and personnel of the acquired companies (some of which are spread out in different geographic regions) and to achieve expected synergies; • the potential disruption of existing business and diversion of management’s attention from day-to-day operations; • the inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies or correct deficient standards, controls, procedures and policies, including internal controls and procedures sufficient to satisfy regulatory requirements of a public company in the U.S.; • the incurrence of contingent obligations that were not anticipated at the time of the acquisitions; • the failure to obtain necessary transition services such as management services, information technology services and others; • the need or obligation to divest portions of the acquired companies; and • the potential impairment of relationships with customers. In addition, we cannot assure you that the integration and consolidation of newly acquired businesses will achieve any anticipated cost savings and operating synergies. The inability to integrate and consolidate operations and improve operating efficiencies at newly acquired businesses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to achieve the international growth contemplated by our strategic plan. Our strategy contemplates significant growth in international markets in which we have significantly less experience than we have in our domestic operations. Since we intend to benefit from our international initiatives primarily by expanding our sales in the local markets of other countries, our success depends on continued growth in these markets, including Europe, Latin America and Asia-Pacific. 13 Table of Contents Natural gas, the principal fuel we use to manufacture our products, is subject to fluctuating prices; fluctuations in natural gas prices could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Natural gas is the primary source of energy in most of our production processes. We do not have long-term contracts for natural gas and are therefore subject to market variables and widely fluctuating prices. Consequently, our operating results are strongly linked to the cost of natural gas. As of December 31, 2008, we had forward contracts in place to hedge approximately 76 percent of our estimated 2009 natural gas needs with respect to our North American manufacturing facilities and approximately 44 percent of our estimated 2009 natural gas needs with respect to our International manufacturing facilities. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, we spent approximately $69.6 million and $60.6 million, respectively, on natural gas. We have no way of predicting to what extent natural gas prices will rise in the future. To the extent that we are not able to offset increases in natural gas prices, such as by passing along the cost to our customers, these increases could adversely impact our margins and operating performance. If we are unable to obtain sourced products or materials at favorable prices, our operating performance may be adversely affected. Sand, soda ash, lime, corrugated packaging and resins are the principal materials we use. In addition, we obtain glass tableware, ceramic dinnerware, metal flatware and hollowware from third parties. We may experience temporary shortages due to disruptions in supply caused by weather, transportation, production delays or other factors that would require us to secure our sourced products or raw materials from sources other than our current suppliers. If we are forced to procure sourced products or materials from alternative suppliers, we may not be able to do so on terms as favorable as our current terms or at all. In addition, resins are a primary material for our Traex operation and, historically, the price for resins has fluctuated with the price of oil, directly impacting our profitability. Material increases in the cost of any of these items on an industry-wide basis may have an adverse impact on our operating performance and cash flows if we are unable to pass on these increased costs to our customers. Charges related to our employee pension and postretirement welfare plans resulting from market risk and headcount realignment may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In connection with our employee pension and postretirement welfare plans, we are exposed to market risks associated with changes in the various capital markets. Changes in long-term interest rates affect the discount rate that is used to measure our obligations and related expense. Our total pension and postretirement welfare expense, including pension settlement and curtailment charges, for all U.S. and non-U.S. plans was $19.0 million and $14.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Changes in the equity and debt securities markets affect our pension plan asset performance and related pension expense. Based on year-end data, sensitivity to these key market risk factors is as follows: • A change of 1.0 percent in the discount rate would change our total pension and postretirement welfare expense by approximately $1.9 million. • A change of 1.0 percent in the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets would change total pension expense by approximately $2.2 million. As part of our total expense, we incurred pension curtailment charges of $1.1 million and nonpension postretirement impairment charges of $3.1 million during 2008. The charges in 2008 were triggered by our announcement in December 2008 that our Syracuse China manufacturing plant will be shut down in April 2009. For further discussion, see notes 9, 11 and 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. To the extent that we experience additional headcount shifts or changes as we continue to implement our capacity realignment programs, we may incur further expenses related to our employee pension and postretirement welfare plans, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents Our business requires significant capital investment and maintenance expenditures that we may be unable to fulfill. Our operations are capital intensive, requiring us to maintain a large fixed cost base. Our total capital expenditures were $45.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, and $43.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. Our business may not generate sufficient operating cash flow, and external financing sources may not be available in an amount sufficient to enable us to make anticipated capital expenditures. Our business requires us to maintain a large fixed cost base that can affect our profitability. The high levels of fixed costs associated with operating glass production plants encourage high levels of output, even during periods of reduced demand, which can lead to excess inventory levels and exacerbate the pressure on profit margins. Our profitability is dependent, in part, on our ability to spread fixed costs over an increasing number of products sold and shipped, and if we reduce our rate of production, our costs per unit increase, negatively impacting our gross margins. Decreased demand or the need to reduce inventories can lower our ability to absorb fixed costs and materially impact our results of operations. Unexpected equipment failures may lead to production curtailments or shutdowns. Our manufacturing processes are dependent upon critical glass-producing equipment, such as furnaces, forming machines and lehrs. This equipment may incur downtime as a result of unanticipated failures. We may in the future experience facility shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of these equipment failures. Unexpected interruptions in our production capabilities would adversely affect our productivity and results of operations for the affected period. We also may face shutdowns if we are unable to obtain enough energy in the peak heating seasons. If our investments in new technology and other capital expenditures do not yield expected returns, our results of operations could be reduced. The manufacture of our tableware products involves the use of automated processes and technologies. We designed much of our glass tableware production machinery internally and have continued to develop and refine this equipment to incorporate advancements in technology. We will continue to invest in equipment and make other capital expenditures to further improve our production efficiency and reduce our cost profile. To the extent that these investments do not generate targeted levels of returns in terms of efficiency or improved cost profile, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We rely on increasingly complex information systems for management of our manufacturing, distribution, sales and other functions. If our information systems fail to perform these functions adequately or if we experience an interruption in their operation, our business and results of operations could suffer. All of our major operations, including manufacturing, distribution, sales and accounting, are dependent upon our complex information systems. Our information systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: • earthquake, fire, flood, hurricane and other natural disasters; • power loss, computer systems failure, internet and telecommunications or data network failure; and • hackers, computer viruses, software bugs or glitches. Any damage or significant disruption in the operation of such systems or the failure of our information systems to perform as expected could disrupt our business, result in decreased sales, increased overhead costs, excess inventory and product shortages, and otherwise adversely affect Libbey’s operations, financial performance and condition. We take significant steps to mitigate the potential impact of each of these risks, but there can be no assurance that these procedures would be completely successful. 15 Table of Contents We may not be able to renegotiate collective bargaining agreements successfully when they expire; organized strikes or work stoppages by unionized employees may have an adverse effect on our operating performance. We are party to collective bargaining agreements that cover most of our manufacturing employees. The agreement with our unionized employees in Shreveport, Louisiana expires on December 15, 2011. Agreements with our unionized employees in Toledo, Ohio expire on September 30, 2010. Crisa’s collective bargaining agreements with its unionized employees have no expiration, but wages are reviewed annually and benefits are reviewed every two years. Crisal does not have a written collective bargaining agreement with its unionized employees but does have an oral agreement that is revisited annually. Royal Leerdam’s collective bargaining agreement with its unionized employees expires on July 1, 2009. We may not be able to successfully negotiate new collective bargaining agreements without any labor disruption. If any of our unionized employees were to engage in a strike or work stoppage prior to expiration of their existing collective bargaining agreements, or if we are unable in the future to negotiate acceptable agreements with our unionized employees in a timely manner, we could experience a significant disruption of operations. In addition, we could experience increased operating costs as a result of higher wages or benefits paid to union members upon the execution of new agreements with our labor unions. We could also experience operating inefficiencies as a result of preparations for disruptions in production, such as increasing production and inventories. Finally, companies upon which we are dependent for raw materials, transportation or other services could be affected by labor difficulties. These factors and any such disruptions or difficulties could have an adverse impact on our operating performance and financial condition. In addition, we are dependent on the cooperation of our largely unionized workforce to implement and adopt the LEAN initiatives that are critical to our ability to improve our production efficiency. The effect of strikes and other slowdowns may adversely affect the degree and speed with which we can adopt LEAN optimization objectives and the success of that program. We are subject to risks associated with operating in foreign countries. These risks could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We operate manufacturing and other facilities throughout the world. As a result of our international operations, we are subject to risks associated with operating in foreign countries, including: • political, social and economic instability; • war, civil disturbance or acts of terrorism; • taking of property by nationalization or expropriation without fair compensation; • changes in government policies and regulations, including with respect to environmental matters; • devaluations and fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • imposition of limitations on conversions of foreign currencies into dollars or remittance of dividends and other payments by foreign subsidiaries; • imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by foreign subsidiaries; • ineffective intellectual property protection; • hyperinflation in certain foreign countries; and • impositions or increase of investment and other restrictions or requirements by foreign governments. The risks associated with operating in foreign countries may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 16 Table of Contents High levels of inflation and high interest rates in Mexico could adversely affect the operating results and cash flows of Crisa. Although the annual rate of inflation, as measured by changes in the Mexican National Consumer Price Index, was only 5.1 percent for 2008 and 3.8 percent for 2007, Mexico has historically experienced high levels of inflation and high domestic interest rates. If Mexico experiences high levels of inflation, Crisa’s operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected, and, more generally, high inflation might result in lower demand or lower growth in demand for our products, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations and financial condition. Fluctuation of the currencies in which we conduct operations could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the value of the various currencies in which we conduct operations relative to the U.S. dollar, including the euro, the Mexican peso and the Chinese Yuan (“RMB”), may result in significant changes in the indebtedness of our non-U.S. subsidiaries. Currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies of our non-U.S. subsidiaries affect our results as reported in U.S. dollars, particularly the earnings of Crisa as expressed under U.S. GAAP, and will continue to affect our financial income and expense, our revenues from international settlements. Fluctuations in the value of the foreign currencies in which we operate relative to the U.S. dollar could reduce the cost competitiveness of our products or those of our subsidiaries. Major fluctuations in the value of the euro, the Mexican peso or the RMB relative to the U.S. dollar and other major currencies could reduce the cost competitiveness of our products or those of our subsidiaries, as compared to foreign competition. For example, if the U.S. dollar has appreciated relative to the euro, the Mexican peso or the RMB, reducing the purchasing power of those currencies compared to the U.S. dollar and making our U.S.-manufactured products more expensive in the euro zone, Mexico and China, respectively, compared to the products of local competitors. An appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the euro, the Mexican peso or the RMB also increases the cost of U.S. dollar-denominated purchases for our operations in the euro zone, Mexico and China, respectively, including purchases of raw materials. We would be forced to deduct these cost increases from our profit margin or attempt to pass them along to consumers. These fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Devaluation or depreciation of, or governmental conversion controls over, the foreign currencies in which we operate could affect our ability to convert the earnings of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars. Major devaluation or depreciation of the Mexican peso could result in disruption of the international foreign exchange markets and may limit our ability to transfer or to convert Crisa’s Mexican peso earnings into U.S. dollars and other currencies upon which we will rely in part to satisfy our debt obligations. While the Mexican government does not currently restrict, and for many years has not restricted, the right or ability of Mexican or foreign persons or entities to convert pesos into U.S. dollars or to transfer other currencies out of Mexico, the government could institute restrictive exchange rate policies in the future; restrictive exchange rate policies could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the government of China imposes controls on the convertibility of RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our Chinese subsidiaries to remit sufficient foreign currency to make payments to us. Under existing Chinese foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade-related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the Chinese State Administration of Foreign Exchange by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate government authorities is required where RMB are to be converted into foreign currencies and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. In the future, the Chinese government could institute restrictive exchange rate policies for current account transactions. These policies could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents If our hedges do not qualify as highly effective or if we do not believe that forecasted transactions would occur, the changes in the fair value of the derivatives used as hedges would be reflected in our earnings. In order to mitigate variation in our operating results due to commodity price fluctuations, we have derivative financial instruments that hedge certain of our interest rate risks associated with long-term debt, commodity price risks associated with forecasted future natural gas requirements and foreign exchange rate risks associated with transactions denominated in a currency other than the U.S. dollar. The results of our hedging practices could be positive, neutral or negative in any period depending on price changes of the hedged exposures. We account for derivatives in accordance with SFAS No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” as amended by SFAS Nos. 137 and 138. These derivatives qualify for hedge accounting if the hedges are highly effective and we have designated and documented contemporaneously the hedging relationships involving these derivative instruments. If our hedges do not qualify as highly effective or if we do not believe that forecasted transactions would occur, the changes in the fair value of the derivatives used as hedges will impact our results of operations and could significantly impact our earnings. We are subject to various environmental and legal requirements and may be subject to new legal requirements in the future; these requirements could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our operations and properties, both in the U.S. and abroad, are subject to extensive laws, ordinances, regulations and other legal requirements relating to environmental protection, including legal requirements governing investigation and clean-up of contaminated properties as well as water discharges, air emissions, waste management and workplace health and safety. These legal requirements frequently change and vary among jurisdictions. Compliance with these legal requirements, or the failure to comply with these requirements, may have a material adverse effect on our operations. We have incurred, and expect to incur, costs to comply with environmental legal requirements, and these costs could increase in the future. Many environmental legal requirements provide for substantial fines, orders (including orders to cease operations) and criminal sanctions for violations. These legal requirements may apply to conditions at properties that we presently or formerly owned or operated, as well as at other properties for which we may be responsible, including those at which wastes attributable to the Company were disposed. A significant order or judgment against us, the loss of a significant permit or license or the imposition of a significant fine may have a material adverse effect on operations. We have received notice from the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) that we are not in compliance with the exchange’s continued listing standards because our market capitalization and stockholders’ equity are less than $75 million. The listing of our common stock on the NYSE is at risk because we do not comply with the NYSE’s continued listing standards. Those standards require that our average market capitalization not be less than $75 million over a consecutive 30 trading-day period and that our stockholders’ equity not be less than $75 million. We were notified by the NYSE on February 17, 2009 that Libbey’s market capitalization and stockholders’ equity are below those criteria. While Libbey has a period of eighteen months from the date it received notice to cure this non-compliance, and we have a number of options to cure under consideration, there can be no assurance that we will be able to cure this deficiency in the time permitted. In addition, there can be no guarantee that the Company will remain in compliance with other continued listing requirements related to market capitalization and minimum stock price. In the current environment there can be no assurance that we will not be in violation of other NYSE listing standards, some of which may not be curable. Our failure to protect our intellectual property or prevail in any intellectual property litigation could materially and adversely affect our competitive position, reduce revenue or otherwise harm our business. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, licenses, confidentiality and other agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. However, this protection may not be fully adequate. Our intellectual property rights may be challenged or invalidated, an infringement suit by us against a third party may not be successful and/or third 18 Table of Contents parties could adopt trademarks similar to our own. In particular, third parties could design around or copy our proprietary furnace, manufacturing and mold technologies, which are important contributors to our competitive position in the glass tableware industry. We may be particularly susceptible to these challenges in countries where protection of intellectual property is not strong. In addition, we may be accused of infringing or violating the intellectual property rights of third parties. Any such claims, whether or not meritorious, could result in costly litigation and divert the efforts of our personnel. Our failure to protect our intellectual property or prevail in any intellectual property litigation could materially and adversely affect our competitive position, reduce revenue or otherwise harm our business. Our business may suffer if we do not retain our senior management. We depend on our senior management. The loss of services of any of the members of our senior management team could adversely affect our business until a suitable replacement can be found. There may be a limited number of persons with the requisite skills to serve in these positions, and we may be unable to locate or employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms. Payment of severance or retirement benefits earlier than anticipated could strain our cash flow. Certain members of our senior management have employment and change in control agreements that provide for substantial severance payments and retirement benefits. We are required to fund a certain portion of these payments according to a predetermined schedule, but some of our nonqualified obligations are currently unfunded. Should these senior managers leave our employ under circumstances entitling them to severance or retirement benefits, or become disabled or die, before we have funded these payments, the need to pay these severance or retirement benefits ahead of their anticipated schedule could put a strain on our cash flow and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We may face a risk when we return to the market to refinance our debt as a result of the recent downgrade of the Company’s debt by Moody’s Investor Service. In February 2009 Moody’s Investors Service downgraded Libbey Glass Inc.’s (“Libbey Glass”) debt ratings, including its corporate family and probability of default ratings to B3 from B2, and the rating on its second lien senior secured notes to B3 from B2. Libbey’s SGL-3 speculative grade liquidity rating was unchanged. According to Moody’s, the SGL-3 rating reflects adequate liquidity, supported by the expectation that planned cash flow improvement, moderate cash balances, and availability under its asset-based revolver, although declining, should be sufficient to fund internal needs over the next twelve months. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 19 Table of Contents 