ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces many risks. Any of the risks discussed below, or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in our other SEC filings, could have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our sales could be negatively impacted if our key customer substantially reduces orders for our products. With the exception of our largest account, Macy’s Home Stores, our customer base is relatively dispersed. Our sales to this large account, which was formed in 2005 as the result of a merger between Federated Department Stores and the May Department Stores Company accounted for 8% of our net sales for fiscal year 2005 (reflecting four months of Lenox results). If we lose Macy’s Home Stores as an account, our sales and business would be negatively impacted. The Company’s reliance on foreign manufacturing is subject to inherent risk, which may affect our ability to procure goods and/or procure them in a timely fashion. Foreign manufacturing and procurement of imports is subject to the following inherent risks: labor, economic and political instability; cost and capacity fluctuations and delays in transportation, dockage and material handling; restrictive actions by governments; nationalizations; the laws and policies of the United States affecting importation of goods (including duties, quota and taxes); international political, military and terrorist developments; and foreign trade and tax laws. Moreover, we cannot predict what relevant political, legal or regulatory changes may occur, or the type or amount of any financial impact on the Company such changes may have in the future. Our products are subject to customs duties and regulations pertaining to the importation of goods. In the ordinary course of business, we may be involved in disputes with the U.S. Bureau of Customs and Border Protection (U.S. Customs) regarding the amount of duty to be paid, the value of merchandise to be reported or other Customs regulations, which may result in the payment of additional duties and/or penalties, or in the refund of duties to the Company. Since the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, U.S. Customs has enacted various security protocols affecting the importation of goods. Such protocols could adversely affect the speed or cost involved in the Company’s receipt of inventory from its overseas vendors. 8 Table of Contents The Company’s reliance on manufacturing from sources within China, in particular, is subject to inherent risk, which may affect our ability to procure goods and/or procure them in a timely fashion. In fiscal year 2005, approximately 81% of our imports were manufactured in China, and we anticipate that such percentage will hold constant or increase for the foreseeable future. China has joined the World Trade Organization and been accorded permanent “Normal Trade Relations” status by the U.S. government. However, various commercial and legal practices in China, including the handling of intellectual property and certain labor practices, are under review by the U.S. government. China has been designated a Country of Particular Concern (CPC) pursuant to the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 (IRFA). The IRFA enumerates several specific retaliatory actions that may be taken by the U.S. government, none of which we believe would have a material impact on our business. The IRFA, however, also accords the President broad discretion in fashioning other or additional actions and, due to the breadth of the Presidential powers under the IRFA, we are unable to predict what, if any, action the President could take in the future. Accordingly, the ability to continue to conduct business with vendors located in China is subject to political uncertainties, the financial impact of which we are unable to estimate. To the extent China may have its exports or transaction of business with U.S. persons subject to political retaliation, the cost of Chinese imports could increase significantly and/or the ability to import goods from China may be materially impaired. In such an event, there could be an adverse effect on the Company until alternative arrangements for the manufacture of our products were obtained on economic, production and operational terms at least as favorable as those currently in effect. We are subject to risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates present risks inherent in our method for inventory procurement. Our costs could be adversely affected if the currencies of other countries in which we source product appreciate significantly relative to the U.S. dollar. This could result, for example, from a decision by China to revalue the Renminbi (“RNB”) relative to the U.S. dollar or to allow the RNB to float instead of being pegged to the U.S. dollar at a fixed rate. The Company monitors this risk carefully. If interest rates on our variable rate debt were to increase, our financial results would be negatively affected. A principal market risk affecting the Company is the exposure to changes in the interest rates on our variable rate debt. As the Company’s credit facilities bear interest at variable rates, the Company’s results of operations and cash flows will be exposed to changes in interest rates. Based on debt outstanding at December 31, 2005, a 1% increase or decrease in current market interest rates would have an impact of approximately $1.1 million on an annual basis. The Company monitors this risk carefully. We may encounter litigation that has a material impact on our business. The Company is involved on an ongoing basis in litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. Trends in litigation may include claims brought by consumers, shareholders, vendors, accounts and/or injured persons in cases relating to antitrust, employment and labor, environmental, negligence and regulatory matters. Litigation trends and the outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and adverse litigation trends and outcomes could adversely affect the Company’s financial results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 9 Table of Contents 