ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces many risks. Any of the risks discussed below, or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in our other SEC filings, could have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial might also impair our business operations. Our ability to secure and manage debt financing may significantly impact on our ability to operate. As of December 30, 2006, we had $96.3 million of debt outstanding under our term and revolver credit facilities. We are currently operating under limited waivers of specified events of default within these credit facilities, and these limited waivers expire on April 30, 2007. On or before this date, we will either have to negotiate amendments to these credit facilities, or in the alternative, obtain new credit agreements with other lenders. Due to our existing levels of indebtedness and the seasonal nature of our business, which requires us to use our revolving credit facility to finance operations during the year, our ability to operate is dependent upon our ability to secure adequate financing in a timely fashion. The Company is currently in discussions with the agent under its existing credit facilities as well as with other potential lenders regarding a modified or new lending arrangement. While the Company is optimistic it will be able to amend its existing facilities or enter into new facilities, it cannot provide assurance that it will occur, which raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. In addition, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows to pay off the outstanding debt under our term and revolver credit facilities or any new credit agreement that we may enter into after April 30, 2007, our financial results and financial condition would be significantly impaired. Our sales could be negatively impacted if our major customers substantially reduce orders for our products. With the exception of two major accounts, Federated Department Stores, Inc. and Bed Bath & Beyond, our customer base is relatively dispersed. Our sales to these two customers accounted for approximately 20% of our net sales for fiscal year 2006. If Federated Department, Inc. Stores and/or Bed Bath & Beyond were to cease or significantly reduce their business with us, our business and results of operations would be negatively impacted. Our reliance on foreign manufacturing is subject to inherent risk, which may affect our ability to procure goods and/or procure them in a timely fashion. Foreign manufacturing and procurement of imports is subject to the following inherent risks: labor availability and increases in labor costs, increases in the cost of raw materials, economic and political instability; cost and capacity fluctuations and delays in transportation, dockage and material handling; restrictive actions by governments; nationalizations; the laws and policies of the United States affecting importation of goods (including duties, quota and taxes); international political, military and terrorist developments; and foreign trade and tax laws. Moreover, we cannot predict what relevant political, legal or regulatory changes may occur, or the type or amount of any financial impact on us that such changes may have in the future. Our products are subject to customs duties and regulations pertaining to the importation of goods. In the ordinary course of business, we may be involved in disputes with the U.S. Bureau of Customs and Border Protection (U.S. Customs) regarding the amount of duty to be paid, the value of merchandise to be reported or other Customs regulations, which may result in the payment of additional duties and/or penalties, or in the refund of duties to us. Since the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, U.S. Customs has enacted various security protocols affecting the importation of goods. Such protocols could adversely affect the speed or cost involved in our receipt of inventory from our overseas vendors. The inability to make timely shipments of merchandise to our trade customers due to delays caused by foreign sourcing could significantly lower sales and damage our relationship with trade customers resulting in harm to our financial results. 7 Table of Contents Our reliance on manufacturing from sources within China, in particular, is subject to inherent risk, which may affect our ability to procure goods and/or procure them in a timely fashion. In fiscal year 2006, approximately 76% of our imports were manufactured in China, and we anticipate that such percentage will hold constant or increase for the foreseeable future. China has joined the World Trade Organization and been accorded permanent “Normal Trade Relations” status by the U.S. government. However, various commercial and legal practices in China, including the handling of intellectual property and certain labor practices, are under review by the U.S. government. China has been designated a Country of Particular Concern (CPC) pursuant to the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 (IRFA). The IRFA enumerates several specific retaliatory actions that may be taken by the U.S. government, none of which we believe would have a material impact on our business. The IRFA, however, also accords the President broad discretion in fashioning other or additional actions and, due to the breadth of the Presidential powers under the IRFA, we are unable to predict what, if any, action the President could take in the future. Accordingly, the ability to continue to conduct business with vendors located in China is subject to political uncertainties, the financial impact of which we are unable to estimate. To the extent China may have its exports or transaction of business with U.S. persons subject to political retaliation, the cost of Chinese imports could increase significantly and/or the ability to import goods from China may be materially impaired. In such an event, there could be an adverse effect on us until alternative arrangements for the manufacture of our products were obtained on economic, production and operational terms at least as favorable as those currently in effect. We are subject to risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates present risks inherent in our method of inventory procurement. Our costs could be adversely affected if the currencies of other countries in which we source product appreciate significantly relative to the U.S. dollar. This could result, for example, from a decision by China to revalue the Renminbi (“RNB”) relative to the U.S. dollar or to allow the RNB to float instead of being pegged to the U.S. dollar at a fixed rate. If interest rates on our variable rate debt were to increase, our financial results would be negatively affected. A principal market risk affecting us is the exposure to changes in the interest rates on our variable rate debt. As our credit facilities bear interest at variable rates, our results of operations and cash flows will be exposed to changes in interest rates. Based on debt outstanding at December 30, 2006, a 1% increase or decrease in current market interest rates would have an impact of approximately $1.0 million on an annual basis. We may encounter litigation that has a material impact on our business. We are involved on an ongoing basis in litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. Trends in litigation may include claims brought by consumers, shareholders, vendors, accounts and/or injured persons in cases relating to antitrust, employment and labor, environmental, negligence and regulatory matters. Litigation trends and the outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and adverse litigation trends and outcomes could adversely affect our financial results. 8 Table of Contents Our inability to adapt successfully to changing consumer preferences may damage our business. Our success is dependent upon consumer demand for our products. Our ability to anticipate consumer preferences and create tabletop, gift and collectible products which appeal to consumers who shop in our market channels is critical to achieving financial results. As a related factor, our ability to identify, hire and retain quality designers and sculptors and other artistic talent is critical to our product development efforts and our ability to innovate successfully. Our failure to successfully anticipate, identify and react to consumers’ current preferences in our market channels, and to identify, hire and retain artistic talent, could significantly lower sales of our products and harm our financial results. If we are unable to complete our operational improvements, including improving our inventory management and forecasting systems to make our supply chain more efficient, improving the effectiveness and efficiency of our US manufacturing operations, and integrating our legacy Department 56 and Lenox information, operating and distribution systems, our business results may be adversely impacted. In response to market changes, including department store consolidation and a decrease in the sales of collectibles and fine tableware over the past few years, we are restructuring our operations to achieve revenue and cost synergies, including a consolidation of our distribution facilities and a reduction-in-force and cost reduction initiative at our North Carolina bone china factory. If we are not successful in doing so, however, the reduced sales resulting from these external market trends may have an adverse impact on our financial results. In addition, we have implemented plans to improve our inventory management and provide more accurate forecasting to enhance the efficiency of our supply chain. The highly seasonal nature of our business, with a majority of our sales occurring in the third and fourth quarters in anticipation of the holiday season, requires us accurately to forecast demand for products in order to avoid losing potential sales of popular products or producing excess inventory of products that are less popular with consumers. Excess inventory poses particular risks to our brand when sold through liquidation channels. If we do not successfully implement and operate our new inventory management and forecasting systems, we may adversely affect our financial results. Following our acquisition of Lenox, we have been working to integrate the information systems, operating systems, fulfillment processes and distribution resources of Department 56 and Lenox. If we are unable successfully to integrate systems and functional resources, we will not be able operate in the most effective and cost efficient manner which may have an adverse impact on our financial results. If we are unable to manage employee turnover through our integration of Department 56 and Lenox and the completion of our operational improvement process, our business could be adversely impacted. We value and are dependent on key employees throughout the Company for our business success. In addition, an important element of our strategy is to utilize the expertise of key employees to integrate successfully the legacy Department 56 and Lenox operations and complete our operational improvement process. As a result of the Company’s past performance and current restructuring efforts, employee turnover has occurred and is expected to continue. If employee turnover is not managed effectively, the implementation of business improvements, employee morale and results of our operations could be adversely impacted. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 9 Table of Contents 