Item 1A. Risk Factors Dependence on Discretionary Consumer Spending Sales of golf equipment have historically been dependent on discretionary spending by consumers, which may be adversely affected by general economic conditions. The country is currently in one of the worst recession in years, coupled with the collapse of the world's financial industry and the U.S. housing markets, consumers have drastically reduced their spending in the back half of 2008. With this recent and significant deterioration of economic conditions in the U.S. and elsewhere, there has been considerable pressure on consumer demand, and the resulting impact on consumer spending has had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on the demand for the Company's products as well as its financial condition and results of operations. Consumer demand and the condition of the golf retail industry may also be impacted by other external factors such as war, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, public health issues, natural disasters and other business interruptions. The impact of these external factors is difficult to predict, and one or more of the factors could adversely impact the Company's business. This has negatively impacted the golf industry, which saw a decrease in equipment sales of 6%-8% in 2008. The golf industry has historically been a recession proof industry, in which equipment sales ranging plus or minus one to two percent. The Company saw a larger decrease in sales 10 Table of Contents as its customers reacted to their decreases by reducing their inventories. A continued decrease in consumer demand and spending on golf equipment or, in particular, a decrease in demand for golf clubs with graphite shafts could have an adverse effect on the Company's business and operating results and its ability to service its credit facility. Customer Concentration The Company's sales have been, and very likely will continue to be, concentrated among a small number of customers. In 2008, sales to the Company's top five customers represented approximately 59% of net sales. Aldila's principal customers have historically varied depending largely on the prevailing popularity of the various clubs that contain Aldila shafts. In 2008, Ping accounted for 21% of net sales, Acushnet Company accounted for 16% of net sales and Callaway Golf accounted for 15% of net sales. The Company cannot predict the impact that general market trends in the golf industry, including the fluctuation in popularity of specific clubs manufactured by customers, will have on its future business or operating results. While the Company has had long-established relationships with most of its customers, it is not the exclusive supplier of graphite shafts to most of them, and consistent with the industry practice, generally does not have long-term contracts with its customers. We believe that Ping, Acushnet Company and Callaway Golf, who collectively represent approximately 52% of the Company's net sales in 2008, each purchased from at least two other graphite shaft suppliers. In the event Ping, Acushnet Company and Callaway Golf, or any other significant customer, increases purchases from its other suppliers or adds additional suppliers, the Company could be adversely affected. Although the Company believes that its relationships with its customers are good, the loss of a significant customer, or a substantial decrease in sales to a significant customer, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and operating results. In addition, sales by the Company's major customers are likely to vary dramatically from time to time due to fluctuating consumer demand for golf equipment generally and for their specific products. Competition Aldila operates in a highly competitive environment for golf equipment sales. The Company believes that it competes principally on the basis of its ability to provide a broad range of high quality, performance graphite shafts, its ability to deliver customized products in large quantities and on a timely basis, the acceptance of graphite shafts in general, and Aldila branded shafts, in particular, by professionals and other golfers whose preferences are to some extent subjective, and finally, price. Aldila competes against both domestic and foreign shaft manufacturers. Some of the Company's current and potential competitors may have greater resources than Aldila. The Company also faces potential competition from those golf club manufacturers that currently purchase golf shaft components from outside suppliers but that may have, develop or acquire, the ability to manufacture shafts internally. As the Company further enters into the manufacture and sale of prepreg products, it competes with other producers of prepregs, many of whom have substantially greater research and development, managerial and financial resources than the Company and represent significant competition for the Company. Shaft Manufacturing by Club Companies and One-Stop Shops Another factor that could have a negative impact in the future on the Company's sales to golf club manufacturers would be a decision by one of its customers to manufacture all or a portion of their graphite shaft requirements, or to have an increased amount of their requirements filled from one-stop shops (where main components, shaft or head, of the golf club could be produced or purchased and 11 Table of Contents assembled). While the Company has not, to date, experienced any material decline in its sales for these reasons, should any of the Company's major customers decide to meet any significant portion of their shaft needs either internally or through one-stop shops, it could have a material adverse impact on the Company and its financial results. New Product Introduction The Company believes that the introduction of new, innovative golf shafts using graphite or other composite materials will be critical to its future success. While the Company emphasizes research and development activities in connection with carbon fiber and other composite material technology, there can be no assurance that the Company will continue to develop competitive products or that the Company will be able to develop or utilize new composite material technology on a timely or competitive basis or otherwise respond to emerging market trends. Although the Company believes that it has generally achieved success in the introduction of its customized graphite golf shafts, specifically, the Aldila NV® line of golf shafts, no assurance can be given that the Company will be able to continue to design and manufacture products that meet with market acceptance, either on the part of club manufacturers or golfers. The design of new graphite golf shafts is also influenced by rules and interpretations of the United States Golf Association ("USGA"). There can be no assurance that any new products will receive USGA approval or that existing USGA standards will not be altered in ways that adversely affect the sales of the Company's products. Reliance on Offshore Manufacturing Facilities The Company operates manufacturing facilities in Tijuana, Mexico, Zhuhai, People's Republic of China and Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam. The Company pays certain expenses of these facilities in Mexican pesos, Chinese renminbis and Vietnam dong, respectively, which are subject to fluctuations in currency value and exchange rates. The facility in Tijuana, Mexico operates pursuant to the "maquiladora" duty-free program established by the Mexican and United States governments. Such program enables the Company to take advantage of generally lower costs in Mexico, without paying duty on inventory shipped into or out of Mexico. The Company also operates in the People's Republic of China in a special economic zone, which affords special advantages to companies with regards to income taxes. The operation in Vietnam also enjoys advantages in regards to income taxes. There can be no assurance that the governments of Mexico, the People's Republic of China or Vietnam will continue the programs currently in place or that the Company will continue to be able to benefit from these programs. The loss of these benefits could have an adverse effect on the Company's business. The Company is also subject to other customary risks of doing business outside the United States, including political instability, other import/export regulations and cultural differences. Raw Material Cost/Availability The Company's gross profit margin, in part, is dependant on the price paid for carbon fiber purchased from vendors. Historically, the carbon fiber market has been cyclical and experienced periods of excess capacity and low prices followed by periods of little excess capacity and high prices. In the past, when there was excess capacity, carbon fiber suppliers sold carbon fiber at reduced prices, which had the effect of increasing competition, as carbon fiber was less expensive and material was available in the graphite shaft and composite materials businesses. During tight supply times, the Company may have difficulty in obtaining certain types of carbon fibers, which are used in the Company's graphite shafts and composite prepreg materials. Since 2003, the trend has been toward less excess capacity and higher prices, although beginning in 2006 prices of carbon fiber leveled somewhat. Management cannot predict the timing or extent of 12 Table of Contents future price changes for carbon fiber, but higher prices may negatively impact the Company if the Company is not able to pass along these increases to its customers. The Company has relationships with vendors for its carbon fiber needs through 2009 and beyond. In the world carbon fiber market, there are a limited amount of carbon fiber manufacturers. The Company currently purchases carbon fiber from most of these carbon fiber manufacturers, with a large part of those purchases coming from CFT. Depending on market conditions prevailing at the time and the extent to which production at CFT meets expectations, the Company may face difficulties in obtaining adequate supplies of carbon fiber from the other vendors that the Company currently utilizes. If it appears that CFT is not likely to satisfy a significant portion of the Company's needs or if it appears that there will not be adequate availability in the carbon fiber market, the Company may not have made arrangements in advance for the purchase of material amounts of carbon fiber from its existing alternative sources or identify other sources. The Company is dependent on its internal production of graphite prepreg to support its shaft manufacturing operations and composite materials business. If the Company's prepreg production is interrupted for any reason and the Company is unable to secure an alternative supply of prepreg, it could have a material impact to the Company's business. The exposure to the Company resulting from its reliance on its own internal production of the raw materials for its golf shaft business is enhanced because the Company currently operates only one prepreg facility. As noted above, the carbon fiber and composite prepreg industries have encountered various capacity issues in the past, and either situation can have an adverse effect on the Company's business. Utilization of Certain Hazardous Materials In the ordinary course of its manufacturing processes, the Company uses hazardous substances and generates hazardous waste. The Company has not, to date, incurred any material liabilities under environmental laws and regulations and believes that it is in substantial compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Nevertheless, no assurance can be given that the Company will not encounter environmental problems or incur environmental liabilities in the future, which could adversely affect its business. Reliance on Key Personnel The success of the Company is dependent upon its senior management team, as well as its ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. There is competition for qualified personnel in the golf shaft industry as well as the carbon fiber business. Further, in the past, we have used equity incentive programs as part of our overall employee compensation arrangements to both attract and retain qualified personnel. The recent decline in our stock price has negatively impacted, and may continue to negatively impact, the value of these equity incentive and related compensation programs as retention and recruiting tools. We may need to create new or additional equity incentive programs and/or compensation packages to remain competitive, which could be dilutive to our existing stockholders and/or adversely affect our results of operations. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to retain its existing senior management personnel or to attract additional qualified personnel. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 