ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Various statements included herein constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and are indicated by words or phrases such as "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "believe," "is or remains optimistic," "currently envisions" and similar words or phrases and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include statements relating to such matters as anticipated financial performance (including when earnings estimates are discussed), existing products, technical developments, new products, new technologies, research and development activities, and similar matters. These forward-looking statements are based largely on our expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. Actual results could differ materially from these forward-looking statements as a result of, among others, changes in the competitive marketplace, including the introduction of new products or pricing changes by our competitors, changes in the economy and other similar events. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. In light of these risks and uncertainties, we cannot assure you that the forward-looking information contained herein will in fact transpire. The risks and uncertainties that may affect the operations, performance, development and results of our business include those noted elsewhere herein and the following: Merger with Monsanto Our contemplated merger with Monsanto is subject to shareholder approval as well as approval by government agencies. The inability to complete this merger may have a material effect on D&PL. However, such effect cannot be known at this time. Demand for and supply of planting seed Demand for our seed will be affected by government programs and policies and by weather in all countries where we sell products and operate. Demand for seed is also influenced by commodity prices, the cost of other crop inputs, and the demand for a crop's end-uses such as textiles, animal feed, cottonseed oil, food and raw materials for industrial use. Weather impacts crop yields, commodity prices and the planting decisions that farmers make regarding both original planting commitments and, when necessary, replanting levels. These factors all also influence the cost and availability of seed for subsequent seasons. Competition The planting seed market is highly competitive, and our products face competition from a number of seed companies, diversified crop protection product companies, agricultural biotechnology companies, governmental agencies and academic and scientific institutions. In addition, several of our distributors/customers have also entered the cotton planting seed business. These competitors launched in 2006 varieties containing the Bollgard II and Roundup Ready Flex technologies at the same time we launched those technologies in our varieties. A number of crop protection product and biotechnology companies have seed production and/or distribution capabilities to ensure market access for new seed products and new technologies that may compete with the Bollgard, Bollgard II, Roundup Ready and Roundup Ready Flex gene technologies of Monsanto, our principal licensor of such technology. Our seed products and technologies contained therein may encounter substantial competition from technological advances by others or products from new market entrants. Many of our competitors are, or are affiliated with, large diversified companies that have substantially greater resources than we have. Litigation and other legal matters We have initiated arbitration proceedings with Monsanto, the principal licensor of our cotton technologies concerning our rights to exclusive licenses to Monsanto's insect resistance technology in Brazil, Egypt and Burkina Faso. Each of these arbitration proceedings are currently stayed pending the approval and completion of the merger between us and Monsanto. If this merger should not be completed, the stay of these arbitration proceedings would be lifted. The result of these arbitrations, if adversely determined to us, could materially affect our future operations in these three countries. All other arbitration proceedings with Monsanto, including the arbitration in which Monsanto sought to terminate licenses between our companies, have been dismissed with prejudice, barring revival of the claims asserted in those proceedings. The litigation with Monsanto arising from Monsanto's failure to consummate the 1998 Merger Agreement (the "1998 Merger Litigation") has been stayed. This litigation will be terminated upon completion of the merger between our Company and Monsanto pursuant to the 2006 Merger Agreement or upon any termination by us or by Monsanto of the 2006 Merger Agreement without completion of the merger except in specific circumstances, in particular, (i) where our board of directors withdraws, modifies or changes its recommendation or approval of the 2006 Merger Agreement and, at that time, our board of directors has not received a written proposal or indication of interest from another person regarding an acquisition transaction, (ii) by Monsanto if we breach representations and warranties in a material respect and fail to cure within twenty days after Monsanto informs us in writing of the breach, (iii) where the merger has not been completed by the Outside Date (as defined in the Merger Agreement) and a material adverse change in our Company has occurred as of the effective date of termination or (iv) for reasons other than those specified in the 2006 Merger Agreement. Under these circumstances, the stay of the 1998 Merger Litigation will be lifted and we or Monsanto would be permitted to pursue any and all rights and remedies with respect to this litigation. Under these circumstances, the results of this litigation (and the process of litigating) may materially affect the results of our business. (See Part I, Item 3, of D&PL's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 2006.) New technologies There is no assurance that new technologies such as the DeltaMax, DuPont and Syngenta technologies will result in commercially viable products or that such technologies will be developed in the time frame or for the amounts estimated to complete development. Also, there is no assurance that regulatory approval will be obtained for the products. Governmental policies The production, distribution or sale of crop seed in or to foreign markets may be subject to special risks, including fluctuations in foreign currency, exchange rate controls, expropriation, nationalization and other agricultural, economic, tax and regulatory policies of foreign governments and shipping disruptions. Particular policies which may affect our domestic and international operations include the use of and the acceptance of products that were produced from plants that have been genetically modified, the testing, quarantine and other restrictions relating to the import and export of plants and seed products, and the availability (or lack thereof) of proprietary protection for plant products. The absence or lack of enforcement of intellectual property laws may lead to counterfeit and farmer-saved seed which negatively impacts our sales. In addition, United States government policies, particularly those affecting foreign trade and investment, may impact our international operations. Regulatory matters The publicity related to genetically modified organisms ("GMOs") or products made from plants that contain GMOs may have an effect on our sales in the future. In 2006, approximately 96% of our cottonseed that was sold in the United States contained one or more of Monsanto's Bollgard, Bollgard II, Roundup Ready and Roundup Ready Flex gene technologies, and 96% of our soybean seed sales contained the Roundup Ready gene technology. Although many farmers have rapidly adopted these technologies, the concern of some customers and governmental entities over finished products that contain GMOs could impact demand for crops (and ultimately seed) raised from seed containing such traits. In addition, regulatory approvals for Monsanto's Bollgard and Bollgard II technologies expired in 2006. On July 7, 2006, Monsanto announced that the United States Environment Protection Agency had extended the registration of the Bollgard technology through the 2009 growing season. Also, Bollgard II has was recently granted a non-expiring re-registration by the EPA. Monsanto is responsible for obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals for the technologies we license from them. International operating risks Due to the varying levels of agricultural and social development of the international markets in which we operate and because of factors within the particular international markets we target, international profitability and growth may be less stable and predictable than domestic profitability and growth. Furthermore, actions taken by the United States government, including that taken by the United States military, the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and conflicts between major cotton producing nations, may serve to further complicate our ability to execute our long range ex-United States business plans because those plans include future expansion into Uzbekistan, Pakistan and India. World health concerns about infectious diseases also affect the conduct of our international business. Subsidies and trade agreements Our farmer customers in many markets, including the United States, benefit from government subsidy programs. The Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 expires on January 1, 2007 (although the bill includes the 2007 cotton planting season), and future United States farm subsidy programs are uncertain. Various other countries, including Brazil, have challenged, and may continue to challenge, the appropriateness of United States farm subsidies through the World Trade Organization ("WTO") or other forums. In particular, the WTO has ruled in Brazil's favor in its challenge that certain United States subsidies violate the provisions of the WTO. It is not clear if, when, or to what extent, United States subsidies will be modified as a result of this ruling. However, in the event changes to subsidies are made, they may negatively impact United States farmers which could result in a decline in planted cotton acreage. Also, in WTO discussions in Hong Kong in late December 2005, United States negotiators committed to reduce cotton export subsidies (the "Step 2" program) in 2007, and to reduce overall agricultural export subsidies by 2013. United States farm programs, including government subsidies, and WTO rulings impacting such programs may materially affect the results of our business. In addition, the United States Congress, in an attempt to reduce the United States government's budget deficit, may also revise the farm subsidy program and/or its agricultural policy. Other Overall profitability will depend on the factors noted above, as well as worldwide commodity prices, our ability to successfully open new international markets, the technology partners' ability to obtain timely government approval (and maintain such approval) for existing and for additional biotechnology products on which they and us are working, the terms of such government approvals, our technology partners' ability to successfully defend challenges to proprietary technologies licensed to us and our ability to produce sufficient commercial quantities of high quality planting seed of these products. Any delay in or inability to successfully complete these projects may affect future profitability. In addition, earnings forecasts do not consider the impact of potential transactions, their related accounting and other factors, that may be under consideration by the Company, but have not yet been completed or their effect determined at the date of a particular filing. 