Risk factors include previous preterm birth, multiple gestation, uterine anomalies, gestational diabetes, hypertension, low pre-pregnancy weight, use of illicit drugs, sexually transmitted diseases, vaginal infections, smoking, consumption of alcohol and demographic factors such as low socioeconomic status, certain ages and races. In addition, some women may also be designated as “high-risk” later in pregnancy when evaluated using a vaginally inserted ultrasound probe to assess cervical length. This method requires specially trained medical personnel, and its accuracy is highly dependent on specific user technique. However, healthcare providers have had limited success in accurately determining the risk of preterm birth based on these risk factors and evaluations. As a result, there is a need for an easy-to-use, objective method to identify women at multiple times during pregnancy who are truly at high risk for preterm birth. • Women designated as “low-risk” for preterm birth — We believe that up to 2.8 million women annually in the United States with no known risk factors are designated as “low-risk.” However, according to the March of Dimes, women with no known causes of preterm birth account for approximately 50% of all preterm births. We believe the ability to accurately diagnose which of these women are truly at high risk for preterm birth is currently beyond the scope of traditional evaluation methods. Women who are inaccurately identified as “low-risk” are excluded from the potential benefits of existing interventions. If these women could be accurately identified as “high-risk” by periodic testing, their pregnancies potentially could be prolonged with appropriate medical treatment and lifestyle changes. These treatments could result in substantial medical benefits to the mother and infant, as well as significant cost savings. Current treatments and interventions for preterm birth Identification of women at risk for preterm birth can be critical because the use of certain interventions to delay preterm birth may improve infant survival rates and reduce the severity of complications. Interventions may include hospitalization, consultation with a highly-skilled specialist, transport to a more advanced NICU facility, drug treatments such as tocolytics, which are used to delay the onset of birth by reducing contractions, corticosteroids for acceleration of fetal lung development, administration of progesterone to reduce the likelihood of preterm birth, antibiotics and lifestyle modifications, including bed rest and discontinuing work. There is ongoing research into the development of medications to further slow or prevent preterm births. For example, a multi-center, randomized, controlled clinical trial was conducted by the National Institutes of Health and published in the New England Journal of Medicine in 2003 that used a progesterone formulation to prevent preterm birth in a group of “high-risk” women with a prior preterm birth. The study showed that in 4 Table of Contents women with a prior preterm birth, there was a reduction in preterm birth by more than 33% in the treatment group as compared to a group treated with a placebo. Infertility According to the CDC National Center for Health Statistics, approximately 6.1 million women in the United States are affected by some form of infertility. It was estimated that approximately 1.2 million women had an infertility appointment in 1995 in the United States. Based upon a 1998 publication by the American Society for Reproductive Medicine, we believe approximately 10% to 15% of infertile women are classified as suffering from unexplained infertility where extensive tests for known factors have failed to reveal a cause. Infertile women are candidates for assisted reproductive technologies, including IVF. According to the American Society of Reproductive Medicine, the average cost of an IVF cycle is $12,400. Receptivity of the uterus to undergo implantation varies by patient, and we are unaware of any current methods by which to evaluate women on this basis. The ability to predict good candidates for IVF procedures would help prevent unnecessary and costly IVF cycles. Induction of labor Induction of labor is the process by which medications and other treatments are used to initiate labor and delivery. According to a 2003 publication by the CDC, in 2002, 820,000 of the estimated four million births in the United States were induced. The same publication indicated that the percentage of induced labor more than doubled from approximately 9% in 1989 to approximately 21% in 2002. Induction of labor may be required for certain maternal or fetal conditions. In addition, we believe a number of inductions are elective in nature and performed for the convenience of the patient or healthcare provider. Healthcare providers have traditionally assessed women as candidates for successful induction of labor through the presence of certain clinical characteristics such as softness, dilation and thickness of the woman’s cervix. These clinical characteristics are not always reliable predictors of which women will be successfully induced. As a result, many women who are not good candidates for labor induction may endure prolonged dysfunctional induced labor with exposure to drugs such as cervical ripening agents or oxytocin and an elevated risk of cesarean section. We believe the current use of subjective evaluation techniques to predict the successful induction of labor contributes to the annual cesarean section rate in the United States. Based upon a 2005 publication by the CDC, cesarean sections represented 29.6% of all births in the United States in 2004. This is the highest rate ever reported in the United States and has risen 30% since 1996. Delivery by cesarean section typically results in costs of approximately $2,000 more than vaginal delivery based on a 2002 article published by the American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology. In addition, unsuccessful induction of labor may be associated with medical complications for both the mother and infant, as well as increased hospital stays and neonatal costs. In addition, women who undergo a cesarean section are often encouraged to continue to have cesarean sections in subsequent pregnancies. An objective diagnostic test to assist healthcare providers in predicting the successful induction of labor would help improve labor success rates and reduce unnecessary cesarean sections. Oncology — bladder cancer According to a 2003 publication in the Journal of Clinical Ligand Assay, bladder cancer is the fifth most common cancer in the United States. The American Cancer Society estimates that there will be more than 60,000 new cases diagnosed in the United States in 2004. The National Cancer Institute found in a 1995 study that the existing patient population for bladder cancer is approximately 500,000 cases. According to a 2004 article published in Clinical Chemistry, following treatment, even patients initially diagnosed with superficial tumors must be monitored closely as two-thirds of these patients will experience a recurrence within five years and almost 90% will have a recurrence within 15 years. Current diagnostic tools and techniques include visual observation through cystoscopy, evaluation of potential cancer cells through cytology and assessment of tissue biopsies. There are several FDA-cleared tests for monitoring patients and a limited number of tests that have been approved by the FDA for use in screening for bladder cancer. However, these tests detect bladder cancer 5 Table of Contents with varying degrees of success and are generally more successful in detecting more advanced cancers. We believe there is a market opportunity for a more accurate and reliable test to monitor and screen for bladder cancer at an early stage. FETAL FIBRONECTIN OVERVIEW Fetal fibronectin is a protein expressed in the fetal membranes and placenta at the interface between the mother and fetus. Fetal fibronectin is believed to play a role in the adhesion of the fetal membranes to the wall of the uterus. In a normal pregnancy, the level of fetal fibronectin in vaginal secretions is typically elevated through weeks 16 to 20 of gestation as the fetal membranes adhere to the uterine wall. From week 20 through week 35 of gestation, fetal fibronectin levels are typically low. As the pregnancy reaches term, the fetal fibronectin level rises significantly. Therefore, low levels of fetal fibronectin in vaginal secretions between week 20 and week 35 of gestation are highly correlated with a low risk of preterm birth, while high levels of fetal fibronectin during this time period indicate a greater risk of preterm birth. Testing for the presence or absence of fetal fibronectin enables healthcare providers to identify women at risk for preterm birth, and may also be useful in predicting the successful induction of labor. Fetal fibronectin has also been shown to be present in certain forms of cancer. In oncology, fetal fibronectin is referred to as oncofetal fibronectin. The protein is expressed in several forms of cancer where its adhesive properties may help the cancer to attach to tissue and grow. Oncofetal fibronectin can potentially be detected in cancerous tissues or in fluids that come into contact with those tissues. THE ADEZA SOLUTION We believe that our proprietary, FDA-approved diagnostic test and instrument, the single-use, disposable Fetal Fibronectin Test and the TLiIQ System have the potential to fundamentally change how healthcare providers select the appropriate course of treatment for pregnant women and to become a standard of care for use in pregnancy. The clinical efficacy of our Fetal Fibronectin Test for preterm birth has been demonstrated in numerous peer-reviewed clinical publications, including the Peaceman et al. trial, published in the American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology, and the Goldenberg et al. trial, published in the American Journal of Public Health and Obstetrics & Gynecology, two multi-center clinical trials. Our Fetal Fibronectin Test was used to obtain the results described in each of these publications. In addition, cost savings resulting from the use of our test have also been confirmed in peer-reviewed publications such as articles published by Joffe et al. and Giles et al. in the American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology. We believe the Fetal Fibronectin Test and the TLiIQ System have the following key characteristics: • Objective result — Instrument provides a positive or negative result; • Low-cost instrument — Minimal cost is incurred to acquire the instrument; • Rapid turnaround — Produces a result in less than 25 minutes; • Easy to use — Simple and convenient test procedure and instrument user interface; • Established reimbursement — Reimbursement provided by large US health plans; and • Significant cost savings opportunity — Reduces hospital admissions, eliminates unnecessary transports and avoids costly interventions. We market the Fetal Fibronectin Test to healthcare providers for women who are seeking urgent medical care for signs and symptoms of preterm labor in the hospital. While a woman is being evaluated, the Fetal Fibronectin Test is run in the hospital laboratory with the result generated in less than 25 minutes. A negative Fetal Fibronectin Test for women with signs and symptoms of preterm labor effectively rules out the chance of preterm birth in the next seven days, with a 99.5% probability, as reported by Peaceman et al. in the American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology and incorporated in our FDA labeling. We believe this avoids unnecessary hospitalization, medications, hospital transport, or bed rest. A positive Fetal Fibronectin Test provides the healthcare provider with a more accurate assessment of who will deliver preterm in the next seven 6 Table of Contents days than traditional risk factors. The probability of a preterm birth within seven days of a positive Fetal Fibronectin Test is 12.7%, according to data collected by Peaceman et al. and incorporated in our FDA labeling. By comparison, the Peaceman et al. data indicates that traditional risk factors such as genital tract infection, uterine activity, vaginal bleeding and cervical dilation have positive predictive values of only 1.7%, 6.3%, 7.6% and 8.5%, respectively. If the Fetal Fibronectin Test is positive, the healthcare provider may proactively prescribe various treatments to delay or manage preterm labor and birth. We also market the Fetal Fibronectin Test to healthcare providers for women who have been designated as “high-risk.” These women should be carefully monitored throughout their pregnancy, and a Fetal Fibronectin Test can be used multiple times in their pregnancy during their frequent visits to their healthcare provider’s office. In those cases, fetal fibronectin samples are collected from women in healthcare providers’ offices and picked up for testing by a clinical laboratory. Results are typically returned to the healthcare provider in 24 to 48 hours. The use of the Fetal Fibronectin Test for this patient population helps to identify women who are not at risk of delivering preterm. In addition, we believe that our product has the potential to be used in routine patient visits for women who have been designated as “low-risk” by their healthcare providers. According to a 2001 article published in the American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology, over 50% of all preterm births occur when no major risk factors are present. Our Fetal Fibronectin Test may provide an objective test for identifying additional women who are at risk of preterm birth and, when used in conjunction with traditional diagnostics such as ultrasound, could potentially enable early intervention. In these “high-risk” and “low-risk” patient categories, a large, multi-center, peer-reviewed clinical study by Goldenberg, et al. in the American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology comparing the most common predictors of preterm birth demonstrated that the Fetal Fibronectin Test was the single strongest predictor of preterm birth at less than 35 weeks of pregnancy. A peer-reviewed, cost-benefit study published in 1999 by Joffe, et al. in the American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology addressed the potential impact of the Fetal Fibronectin Test in a hospital system. Data obtained from a year when the Fetal Fibronectin Test was utilized was compared to the prior year when the test was not available. Use of the Fetal Fibronectin Test resulted in a significant cost savings for the hospital system by reducing preterm labor hospital admissions, length of stay and prescriptions for tocolytic agents. Preterm labor hospital admissions alone were decreased by approximately 40%. 7 Table of Contents PRODUCTS The following table summarizes information related to our principal products and certain of our products under development. Product Use Status Marketed products Preterm birth Fetal Fibronectin Test for the TLi IQ System Prediction of preterm birth• Women with signs and symptoms• Women at “high-risk”• Women at “low-risk” Commercially available Infertility E-tegrity Test Uterine receptivity Commercially available Products under development Other pregnancy products Induction of labor Fetal Fibronectin Test for the TLi IQ System Successful induction of labor FDA review pending Preterm birth SalEst Test Prediction of preterm birth In commercial development Delivery date Fetal FibronectinTest/SalEst Test Prediction of delivery date In development Oncology products Bladder cancer Oncofetal fibronectin test for the TLi IQ System Monitoring and screening In development We also sell certain consumables related to our principal products and a fetal fibronectin test intended for certain international markets. None of these consumable or international specific products represent a material portion of our revenues. Marketed products Preterm birth products Our Fetal Fibronectin Test has been approved by the FDA for assessing the risk of preterm birth. We manufacture and market the patented single-use, disposable Fetal Fibronectin Test, which is performed on our patented instrument, the TLiIQ System. The Fetal Fibronectin Test cassette is sold directly to hospital and clinical laboratories that perform the test and provide results to healthcare providers. TLiIQ System. The TLiIQ System consists of the TLiIQ instrument and printer. The TLiIQ instrument is small and compact, approximately eight inches long by seven inches wide by three inches high, and is composed of: • A keypad which is used to enter patient and user identification information; • A display which provides simple on-screen commands to guide the user through the testing sequence; • A fiber-optic scanner that is contained inside the instrument, which creates a digitized image of the test result; and • Sophisticated technology that analyzes each Fetal Fibronectin Test cassette. The printer for the TLiIQ System generates a label with the patient test result. Fetal Fibronectin Test cassette. The Fetal Fibronectin Test cassette is a single-use, dry chemistry cassette. All the necessary reagents for one test are contained within the cassette. 8 Table of Contents Test procedure. A healthcare provider collects a sample of the patient’s vaginal secretions using our Fetal Fibronectin Specimen Collection Kit. The Fetal Fibronectin Specimen Collection Kit contains a sterile polyester swab and specimen transport tube. The swab is placed into the transport tube, which contains a proprietary buffer solution that extracts and stabilizes the fetal fibronectin sample during transport. The transport tube containing the patient sample is sent to the hospital or clinical laboratory for analysis on the TLiIQ instrument. At the laboratory, the Fetal Fibronectin Test cassette is inserted into the chamber of the TLiIQ instrument, and then the patient sample is dispensed into the sample well to begin the Fetal Fibronectin Test. The TLiIQ instrument produces a positive or negative test result in less than 25 minutes and prints the test result on a label that can be affixed to the patient’s record. The Fetal Fibronectin Test can be easily run with minimal training of laboratory personnel required. Infertility products E-tegrity Test. The E-tegrity Test is a patented diagnostic test designed to determine receptivity of the uterus to embryo implantation. The E-tegrity Test identifies the presence or absence of a unique protein, alpha-v beta-3 integrin, important for implantation to occur. This unique protein is the basis of our proprietary analyte specific reagent, or ASR, on which the E-tegrity Test is based. If a woman is missing the alpha-v beta-3 integrin protein between days 20 to 24 of her menstrual cycle, the fertilized egg may not attach properly to the epithelial lining of the uterus. As a result, a woman’s chances of a successful pregnancy are significantly decreased. The E-tegrity Test provides healthcare providers with a new method for potentially explaining the cause of a woman’s infertility. Women who may be helped by the E-tegrity Test include women that are having difficulty getting pregnant by natural means, women who are considering assisted reproductive technologies and women who have already tried IVF without success. A negative test provides a potential reason for the woman’s infertility, and the healthcare provider can then initiate appropriate treatments to potentially increase the chance for successful embryo implantation. We believe the E-tegrity Test can provide significant cost savings by potentially reducing the number of failed IVF cycles. Peer-reviewed publications have shown that women missing alpha-v beta-3 integrin can benefit from drug therapy that improves uterine receptivity for embryo implantation. We perform the E-tegrity Test exclusively in our CLIA-certified laboratory, Adeza Diagnostic Services. Products under development Pregnancy products Induction of labor Fetal Fibronectin Test. In addition to the current preterm birth indications for our Fetal Fibronectin Test, we have completed a major multi-center study evaluating the use of the Fetal Fibronectin Test to predict the successful induction of labor for women who are having their first baby. The results from this study have been incorporated into a premarket approval, or PMA, supplement which has been submitted to the FDA. We are in the process of resubmitting our data related to this study to the FDA. Preterm birth SalEst Test. In 2003, we acquired the exclusive rights to a proprietary test that measures the level of estriol in a pregnant woman’s saliva. This test, called SalEst, was approved by the FDA in 1998 under a PMA to predict preterm birth, but has not been commercially available since 2001 due to financial difficulties experienced by the company that originally developed the product. Since the acquisition of the SalEst product in late 2003, we have been working to establish the manufacturing of this product in our facility. The SalEst product may offer complementary diagnostic information to the Fetal Fibronectin Test. Before marketing the SalEst product in the United States, we will need to complete a change of manufacturing site and ownership amendment to the previously approved PMA. We do not currently recognize any revenue from sales of the SalEst Test. 9 Table of Contents Delivery date Fetal Fibronectin Test/ SalEst Test. We are evaluating both the Fetal Fibronectin Test and the SalEst Test to more accurately predict the delivery date in term pregnancies. Several peer-reviewed publications, such as publications by Lockwood, et al. in the American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Luton, et al. in the European Journal of Obstetrics & Gynecology and Reproductive Biology and Mouw et al. in the New England Journal of Medicine, use the Fetal Fibronectin Test as a predictor of delivery date in which higher levels of fetal fibronectin indicate increased birth probability. Feasibility studies and a PMA supplement would be required to allow for commercial use of the Fetal Fibronectin Test or the SalEst Test for this indication. Oncology products We are exploring applications for oncofetal fibronectin in oncology and have initially focused our efforts in the area of bladder cancer. In addition, we are developing and evaluating protocols, and plan to perform preliminary feasibility studies for the use of oncofetal fibronectin for the detection of cervical and ovarian cancer. Bladder cancer We are developing an oncofetal fibronectin test for the detection of bladder cancer using urine samples. A third-party preliminary feasibility study conducted in Germany, published in 2001 in the peer-reviewed journal Oncology Reports, on 40 bladder cancer patients and 20 non-cancer control patients evaluated whether oncofetal fibronectin could be detected in the urine of bladder cancer patients using our test. The results of this study showed that 38 of the 40 bladder cancer patients tested positive for oncofetal fibronectin using our test (a 95% detection rate) while all 20 of the control patients tested negative. In this study, the relationship between a positive oncofetal fibronectin test and the presence of bladder cancer was statistically significant. This preliminary feasibility study included a small number of patients, and later studies may not confirm the results from this study. We are performing another study in Germany to expand on the earlier study and to obtain further clinical data. SALES AND MARKETING We focus our sales and marketing efforts on increasing awareness of our products and services among healthcare providers, hospitals, laboratories, health plans and patients, where we have initiated branding of our test as Full Term, The Fetal Fibronectin Test. Our strategy is to sell and market our products through our direct sales force in the United States and Canada, and distributors worldwide. We choose our partners and distributors on a country-by-country basis. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately 87 direct sales representatives in North America, who have primary focuses on hospital and laboratory sales and healthcare providers in the office setting, health plan sales representatives and sales representative covering Canada. Our direct sales force includes some full-time sales representatives provided to us by a third party, who are directly managed by us, sell our products exclusively and are an integral part of our sales team. US sales and marketing Our hospital and clinical laboratory sales representatives focus primarily on selling the TLiIQ System and Fetal Fibronectin Test to hospital and clinical laboratories, including some of the leading national laboratories in the United States. Our healthcare provider sales representatives focus on the estimated 1,300 maternal-fetal medicine specialists, who focus on high-risk pregnancies, 25,000 Ob/ Gyn physicians, as well as nurses and midwives. Our health plan sales representatives focus on chief medical officers, medical directors and case managers of health plans. Our test is marketed as Full Term, The Fetal Fibronectin Test. We are focused on increasing healthcare provider, hospital, laboratory, health plan and patient awareness of the Fetal Fibronectin Test and its associated benefits through our direct sales and marketing efforts. In our selling process, we use peer-reviewed publications, cost-benefit data and case studies. Peer-to-peer selling is also a critical element of our strategy. Our marketing organization has implemented a national speakers 10 Table of Contents program where healthcare providers such as maternal-fetal medicine specialists, obstetricians, nurses and midwives make educational presentations at hospitals, professional meetings and conferences to increase awareness of our Fetal Fibronectin Test. We also conduct presentations at health plan organizations to medical directors and case managers. Our marketing professionals support sales of our Fetal Fibronectin Test with product literature and training materials for healthcare providers, laboratories and health plans. International sales and marketing Our international sales and marketing efforts address the particular healthcare systems of individual countries through a network of approximately 19 international distributors with expertise in their markets. Our internal marketing professionals support these distributors. We intend to expand our international marketing efforts by increasing our international direct sales force, as well as broadening our international distribution network through strategic partners and distributors that have significant presence and experience in their local markets. In Japan and South Korea, we have a strategic partnership with Daiichi Pure Chemicals Co. Ltd. We also manufacture and market other fetal fibronectin test formats that are sold in international markets and are designed to meet certain criteria specific to these markets. MANUFACTURING We conduct a majority of the manufacturing for our Fetal Fibronectin Test cassettes and TLiIQ System at our two facilities totaling 22,600 square feet, located in Sunnyvale, California. These facilities are subject to the current good manufacturing practices, or GMP, enforced by the FDA. The manufacturing process for our products includes assembly, testing, packaging, labeling, component inspection and final inspection of products that have been manufactured by us or to our specifications by outside contractors. Our quality assurance group independently inspects our products to verify that all components and finished products comply with our specifications and applicable regulatory requirements. We are licensed by the State of California, Department of Health Services Food and Drug Branch and are also registered with the FDA as a device manufacturer. We purchase components for our Fetal Fibronectin Test and TLiIQ System products from various suppliers. The components we purchase are generally available from more than one supplier. For those components for which there are relatively few alternate sources of supply, we believe that even in the event of a disruption of supply of any required materials, we could establish additional or replacement sources of supply without materially interrupting the availability of our products. Our quality assurance systems are required to be in conformance with the Quality System Regulations, or QSR, as mandated by the FDA. We have ISO 13485 certification for our quality system which is required in Canada. Our products are CE marked in accordance with the European In Vitro Diagnostic Directive. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Our research and development efforts are conducted internally and through collaborations with academic investigators and clinicians. Our research and development is focused on enhancements to existing products and developing additional products within women’s health, including pregnancy and infertility, and in oncology. As of December 31, 2005, we had 13 employees conducting research and development. Research and development expenses were $5,092,000, $2,451,000 and $2,001,000 in the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. GOVERNMENT REGULATION United States The research, development, manufacture, labeling, distribution and marketing of our products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. The FDA regulates our currently marketed 11 Table of Contents products as medical devices and we are required to obtain review and clearance or approval from the FDA prior to commercializing our devices. FDA’s premarket clearance and approval requirements Unless an exemption applies, each medical device we wish to commercially distribute in the US will require either prior 510(k) clearance or prior PMA from the FDA. The FDA classifies medical devices into one of three classes. Devices deemed to pose lower risk are placed in either Class I or II, which requires the manufacturer to submit to the FDA a premarket notification requesting permission for commercial distribution of a device that is substantially equivalent to a predicate device that has already received 510(k) clearance or was commercialized prior to May 28, 1976. This process is known as 510(k) clearance and was used for authorization of our Fetal Fibronectin Specimen Collection Kit. Some low-risk Class I devices are exempt from the 510(k) requirement altogether. Devices deemed by the FDA to pose greater risk, or devices deemed not substantially equivalent to a previously cleared 510(k) device are placed in Class III, most of which require premarket approval, such as our Fetal Fibronectin Test and TLiIQ System. Both premarket clearance and PMA applications are subject to the payment of user fees, paid at the time of submission for FDA review. 510(k) clearance pathway To obtain 510(k) clearance, a premarket notification must be submitted, demonstrating that the proposed device is substantially equivalent to a previously cleared 510(k) device or a device that was in commercial distribution before May 28, 1976 for which the FDA has not yet called for the submission of PMA applications. The FDA’s 510(k) clearance pathway usually takes from three to twelve months from the date the application is submitted, but it can take significantly longer. After a device receives 510(k) clearance, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, will require a new 510(k) clearance or could require premarket approval. The FDA requires each manufacturer to make this determination initially, but the FDA can review any such decision and can disagree with a manufacturer’s determination. If the FDA disagrees with a manufacturer’s determination, the FDA can require the manufacturer to cease marketing and/or recall the modified device until 510(k) clearance or premarket approval is obtained. If the FDA requires us to seek 510(k) clearance or premarket approval for any modifications to a previously cleared product, we may be required to cease marketing or recall the modified device until we obtain this clearance or approval. Also, in these circumstances, we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. Premarket approval pathway A PMA application must be submitted if the device cannot be cleared through the 510(k) process, and is usually utilized for Class III medical devices, or devices that pose a significant safety risk, including unknown risks related to the novelty of the device. A PMA application must be supported by extensive data including, but not limited to, technical, preclinical, clinical trials, manufacturing and labeling to demonstrate to the FDA’s satisfaction the safety and effectiveness of the device for its intended use. Technical performance data required for in vitro diagnostic device PMA applications may include validation of the performance of hardware and software under repeat testing, calibration of mechanical components and stability of reagents and other products used in specimen collection, storage and testing. Preclinical trials may include tests to determine product stability and biocompatibility, among other features. Preclinical studies must be conducted in accordance with Good Laboratory Practices. PMA clinical trials are conducted under an Investigational Device Exemption and are designed to demonstrate the performance characteristics of the device relating to safety and effectiveness for the commercially intended use. After a PMA approval application is complete, the FDA begins an in-depth review of the submitted information, which generally takes between one and three years, but may take significantly longer. During this review period, the FDA may request additional information or clarification of information already provided. For example, the FDA has placed its review of our PMA supplement seeking approval for use of our Fetal 12 Table of Contents Fibronectin Test in predicting successful induction of labor on hold while a third party we have engaged conducts an audit of all of the clinical study sites because of the number of protocol deviations, in order to confirm the accuracy of the data. Upon completion of the third-party audit, we will need to submit new analyses of the data and a corrective action plan to the FDA before it will resume its review of the application. Also during the PMA review period, an advisory panel of experts from outside the FDA may be convened to review and evaluate the application and provide recommendations to the FDA as to the approvability of the device. In addition, the FDA will conduct a preapproval inspection of the manufacturing facility to ensure compliance with quality system regulations. New PMA applications or PMA supplements are required for significant modifications to the manufacturing process, labeling or design of an approved device. PMA supplements often require submission of the same type of information as a PMA, except that the supplement is limited to information needed to support any changes from the device covered by the original PMA, and may not require as extensive clinical data or the convening of an advisory panel, which makes recommendations to the FDA concerning the approval of a PMA. In vitro diagnostic medical devices In addition to our FDA-approved and cleared medical devices in distribution, we provide the E-tegrity Test as a test run in our own CLIA-certified laboratory, Adeza Diagnostic Services, for the detection of defects in uterine receptivity. This in-house test is permitted to utilize an ASR, or active ingredient, the use of which has been validated in our clinical laboratory. While we receive specimens in our lab for the E-tegrity Test, the active ingredient of the test itself has not been validated outside of, and is not marketed outside of, our lab. Under the FDA’s requirements, E-tegrity Test results are provided with a disclaimer concerning the absence of an FDA requirement for clearance or approval of ASRs. We do not intend to seek FDA clearance or approval for broader use of the E-tegrity Test. Continuing FDA regulation After a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements apply. These include: • QSR which requires manufacturers to follow design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the manufacturing process, otherwise known as Good Manufacturing Practices or GMPs; • labeling regulations, which prohibit the promotion of products for unapproved or “off-label” uses and impose other restrictions on labeling; and • medical device reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the FDA if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action by the FDA, which may include any of the following sanctions: • fines, injunctions, and civil penalties; • recall or seizure of our products; • operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production; • refusing our request for 510(k) clearance or premarket approval of new products; • withdrawing 510(k) clearance or PMAs that are already granted; and • criminal prosecution. We are also subject to unannounced inspections by the FDA and the Food and Drug Branch of the California Department of Health Services. 13 Table of Contents International International sales of medical devices are subject to foreign government regulations, which vary substantially from country to country. The time required to obtain approval by a foreign country may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval, and the requirements may differ. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Protection of our intellectual property is a strategic priority for our business, and we rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws to protect our interests. Our ability to protect and use our intellectual property rights in the continued development and commercialization of our technologies and products, operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others and prevent others from infringing our proprietary rights, is crucial to our continued success. We will be able to protect our products and technologies from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that they are covered by valid and enforceable patents, trademarks or copyrights, or are effectively maintained as trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. We seek US and international patent protection for our reagents, collection kits, diagnostic systems and other components of our products, and all other commercially important technologies we develop. We devote significant resources to obtaining, enforcing and defending patents and other intellectual property and protecting our other proprietary information. We have already obtained patents or filed patent applications on a number of our technologies, including important patents and patent applications relating to fetal fibronectin, our TLiIQ System, and the Fetal Fibronectin Test. If valid and enforceable, these patents may give us a means of blocking competitors from using similar or alternative technology to compete directly with our products. We also have certain proprietary trade secrets that are not patentable or for which we have chosen to maintain secrecy rather than file for patent protection. With respect to proprietary know-how that is not patentable, we have chosen to rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect our interests. We believe that our portfolio of issued patents and patent applications, together with our exclusively licensed patents described under “License and Other Agreements”, provides patent coverage for our proprietary technologies and products. As of February 14, 2006, our intellectual property estate consisted of 163 issued patents or patent applications, as follows: • 31 issued US patents; • 11 US non-provisional patent applications; • 103 issued foreign patents; • 17 foreign patent applications that are in various national stages of prosecution, which means that the applications have been filed in specific foreign jurisdictions; and • 1 foreign patent application not at the national stage. Each of the foreign filings corresponds in subject matter to a US patent filing. We solely own or have exclusively licensed all of the patents and patent applications set forth above. Our patent portfolio as of December 31, 2005 is summarized in the following table: US US Foreign Foreign Patents Applications Patents Applications Category Granted Filed Granted Filed Methods of Use 15 5 55 9 Detection Systems 10 3 46 3 Platforms/ Other Devices 6 3 2 6 Total 31 11 103 18 14 Table of Contents We believe that our portfolio of issued patents and patent applications provides patent coverage for our proprietary technologies and products. We have patents and patent applications relating to our Fetal Fibronectin Test and TLiIQ System in the categories of methods of use, detection systems, platforms and other devices. Our family of issued patents and patent applications, if and when issued, relating to our Fetal Fibronectin Test and TLiIQ System have a range of expiration dates from 2007 to 2025. Although patents to a reagent used in the Fetal Fibronectin Test expire in 2007, we have additional issued patents that relate to the Fetal Fibronectin Test and the TLiIQ System. Thus, we believe that our currently issued patents provide protection for our Fetal Fibronectin Test to 2009 by protecting the method upon which the test is based and to 2011 by protecting various reagents and kit embodiments employed in the test. In addition, we have issued patents relating to our TLiIQ System and the associated Fetal Fibronectin Test that expire in 2018. We have filed patent applications that, if and when issued, could provide protection for measurement and detection of fetal fibronectin for current and additional indications. These patents, if and when issued, could expire as late as 2025. With respect to our E-tegrity Test, we have exclusively licensed patents and pending patent applications involving detection of beta-3 integrin subunit as an infertility/fertility indicator. The issued patents that involve detection of beta-3 integrin subunit have an expiration of 2012, and any patents that issue based upon the pending applications should have an expiration date of 2012. LICENSE AND OTHER AGREEMENTS While we own much of our intellectual property, including patents, patent applications, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, know-how and proprietary information, we also license related technology of importance to commercialization of our products. To continue developing and commercializing our current and future products, we may license intellectual property from commercial or academic entities to obtain the rights to technology that may be complementary to, or required for, our research, development and commercialization activities. In August 1992, we entered into an amended and restated license agreement with the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center under which we were granted a worldwide, exclusive license to a US patent and corresponding foreign patents related to fetal fibronectin and antibodies made against fetal fibronectin. These licensed patents are used in our Fetal Fibronectin Test, and may be used in other fetal fibronectin or oncofetal fibronectin products that we develop. We are obligated to pay royalties to the Hutchinson Center on net product sales in the US by us during the remainder of the term of a licensed patent, subject to an annual minimum royalty of $10,000. Through December 31, 2005 we have paid approximately $1.7 million. We are also obligated to indemnify the Hutchinson Center for certain claims related to the license agreement. The agreement terminates upon the expiration of the licensed patents in 2007, subject to earlier termination by either party in the event that the other party materially breaches the agreement and fails to correct the breach in a timely manner. In December 1998, we entered into a license agreement with Unilever plc, which was subsequently assigned to Inverness Medical Inc., under which we were granted a non-exclusive license to five US patents and corresponding foreign patents, relating to the chemistry of our Fetal Fibronectin Test, which expire in 2014. We are obligated to pay royalties on net sales of our Fetal Fibronectin Test until the expiration of the last to expire of the licensed patents, provided that our Fetal Fibronectin Test incorporates the technology covered by one or more of the licensed patents. Through December 31, 2005 we have paid approximately $3.8 million. The agreement terminates upon the expiration of the last to expire of the licensed patents, subject to earlier termination by either party in the event that the other party materially breaches the agreement and fails to correct the breach in a timely manner or by Inverness in the event that we file for bankruptcy, challenge any of the licensed patent rights or fail to pay minimum royalties equal to 5,000 pounds sterling for any calendar year. We were previously party to a marketing agreement with Matria Healthcare, which was terminated as of March 1998 pursuant to the terms of an Agreement and Release. Under the terms of the Agreement and Release, we agreed to pay Matria royalties on sales of certain of our products. Through December 31, 2005 we have paid approximately $0.5 million. This agreement has no expiration. 15 Table of Contents In July 1997, we entered into a license agreement with the University of Pennsylvania under which we were granted a worldwide, sublicensable, exclusive license to three US patents and corresponding foreign patents relating to the use of a specific protein found in the lining of the uterus as a predictor of endometriosis and for the determination of uterine receptivity toward embryo implantation. Our E-tegrity Test incorporates the technology covered by these patents, which expire in 2012 and 2013. We are obligated to pay royalties to the university on net sales of our E-tegrity Test during the remainder of the term to the last to expire of the licensed patents, subject to an annual minimum royalty equal to the greater of $10,000 or 20% of the royalties paid to the university in the prior year. Through December 31, 2005 we have paid approximately $0.2 million. The agreement terminates upon the expiration of the last to expire of the licensed patents, subject to earlier termination by the university in the event that we materially breach the agreement and fail to correct the breach in a timely manner, fail to pay royalties when due or file for bankruptcy. We also have agreements with other third parties pursuant to which we have royalty-bearing, non-exclusive licenses to patents held by those third parties. COMPETITION Rapid product development, technological advances, intense competition and a strong emphasis on proprietary products characterize the medical devices and diagnostic products industries. Our products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by the introduction and market acceptance of competing products, by technological advances of potential competitors or by other approaches. We are currently the only provider of a fetal fibronectin test for predicting preterm birth. However, we could experience competition for our preterm birth diagnostic products from companies that manufacture and market pregnancy-related diagnostic products and services. These companies may be significantly larger and have access to substantially more capital for new product development and sales and marketing. These companies may develop new diagnostic products or technologies that could compete with or entirely displace our products and technologies. For example, other biomarkers, including cytokines and other proteins indicative of infection, and proteomics are the subject of research that may yield new products or technologies. In addition, healthcare providers use diagnostic techniques such as clinical examination and ultrasound to diagnose the likelihood of preterm birth. Healthcare providers may choose to continue using these techniques to assess their patients, rather than use our Fetal Fibronectin Test. They may also choose to use these techniques in conjunction with our Fetal Fibronectin Test to predict preterm birth. We believe that in light of the increased rate of preterm birth, cesarean section delivery and assisted reproductive procedures, the market for our products is growing. As a result, we expect additional competition from companies with greater financial, managerial and technical resources than we have. EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2005, we had 103 employees, including 51 in sales, marketing and business development, 15 in manufacturing and laboratory services, 13 in research and development, 17 in administration and 7 in quality assurance. In addition, our direct sales force includes some full-time sales representatives provided to us by a third party, who are directly managed by us, sell our products exclusively, and are an integral part of our sales team. The agreement with such third party is currently scheduled to expire on May 14, 2006. None of our employees is represented by a labor union or is covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We have never experienced any employment related work stoppages and consider our employee relations to be good. We also employ independent contractors to support our development, regulatory, sales, marketing and administrative activities. Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to other information in this Form 10-K, the following factors should be considered carefully in evaluating the company. If any of the risks or uncertainties described in this Form 10-K actually occurs, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The risks and 16 Table of Contents uncertainties described in this Form 10-K are not the only ones facing the company. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are unaware or currently deem immaterial may also become important factors that may harm our business. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS Because our revenues and financial results depend significantly on a limited product line, if we are unable to manufacture or sell our products in sufficient quantities and in a timely manner, our business will suffer. To date, substantially all of our revenue has resulted from sales of our principal product line, our FullTerm, The Fetal Fibronectin Test, the TLiIQ System (and its predecessor, the TLi System) and related consumables. Although we intend to introduce additional products, we expect sales of the Fetal Fibronectin Test to account for substantially all of our near-term revenue. Because our business is highly dependent on our Fetal Fibronectin Tests, the TLiIQ System and the related consumables, factors adversely affecting the pricing of or demand for these products could have a material and adverse effect on our business and cause the value of our securities to decline substantially. We will lose revenue if alternative diagnostic products or technologies gain commercial acceptance or if reimbursement is limited. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to manufacture these products in commercial quantities at acceptable costs. Our inability to do so would adversely affect our operating results and cause our business to suffer. If our products do not achieve and sustain market acceptance, we may fail to generate sufficient revenue to maintain our business. Our commercial success depends in large part on our ability to achieve and sustain market acceptance of our principal product line, FullTerm, The Fetal Fibronectin Test and the TLiIQ System. A key element of our business plan calls for us to expand sales of our TLiIQ System in hospitals and clinical laboratories and increase the related sales of the Fetal Fibronectin Test and other consumables used in conjunction with the TLiIQ System. To accomplish this, we will need to convince healthcare providers of the benefits of our products through various means, including through published papers, presentations at scientific conferences and additional clinical trials. If existing users of our products determine that these products do not satisfy their requirements, or if our competitors develop a product perceived to better satisfy their requirements, our sales of Fetal Fibronectin Tests and other consumables may decline, and our revenues may correspondingly decline. In addition, our commercial success may depend on our ability to gain market acceptance for our other products and product candidates. Market acceptance of our product portfolio will depend on our ability to develop additional applications of our existing products and to introduce new products to additional markets, including the oncology diagnostic market, the reproductive endocrinology and infertility markets and other women’s health markets. Other factors that might influence market acceptance of our products and product candidates include the following: • evidence of clinical utility; • convenience and ease of use; • availability of alternative and competing diagnostic products; • cost-effectiveness; • effectiveness of marketing, distribution and pricing strategy; • publicity concerning these products or competitive products and • reimbursement. In addition, our marketing and development efforts could require us to expend significant time and resources, and we may not succeed in these efforts. If our products are unable to achieve or maintain broad 17 Table of Contents market acceptance, our revenues and operating results may be negatively impacted and our business would suffer. Our quarterly revenues and operating results are subject to significant fluctuations, and our stock price may decline if we do not meet the expectations of investors and analysts. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $32.4 million. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we had net income of $12.3 million. However, we may not sustain profitability and cannot guarantee losses will not occur in the future. Our quarterly revenues and operating results are difficult to predict and have in the past and may in the future fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. These factors include, but are not limited to: • our ability to increase market acceptance of women’s health diagnostics generally and of our products in particular, as discussed under “Risk Factors” — if our products do not achieve and sustain market acceptance, we may fail to generate sufficient revenue to maintain our business”; • our need and ability to generate and manage growth as discussed under “Risk Factors” — if we fail to properly manage our anticipated growth in the United States or abroad, we may incur significant additional costs and expenses and our operating results may suffer”; • delays in, or failure of, delivery of components by our suppliers as more fully described in “Risk Factors” — we rely on a limited number of suppliers, and if these suppliers fail or are unable to perform in a timely and satisfactory manner, we may be unable to manufacture our products or satisfy product demand in a timely manner, which could delay the production or sale of these products”; • the quarterly variations and seasonal nature of our business in demand for our products based on procurement cycles of our customers; • changes in the manner in which our operations are regulated; • the adoption of new accounting policies; • increases in the length of our sales cycle; • fluctuations in gross margins; and • difficult political and economic conditions. These and other factors make it difficult for us to predict sales for subsequent periods and future performance. If our quarterly operating results fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could drop suddenly and significantly. We believe quarterly comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. In addition, we expect to incur additional expenses to execute our business plan, and these expenses will increase as we expand our marketing efforts, research and development activities, clinical testing and manufacturing capacity. These expenses, among other things, may cause our net income and working capital to decrease or result in a net loss. If sales do not continue to grow, we may not be able to maintain profitability. Our expansion efforts may prove more expensive than we currently anticipate, and we may not succeed in increasing our revenues sufficiently to offset these higher expenses. If we fail to do so, the market price for our common stock will likely decline. If third-party payors do not adequately reimburse our customers, market acceptance of our products may be impaired, which may adversely affect our revenues and our operating results. Market acceptance of our products and the majority of our sales depend, in large part, on the availability of adequate reimbursement for the use of our products from government insurance plans, including Medicare and Medicaid, managed care organizations, private insurance plans and other third-party payors primarily in 18 Table of Contents the United States and, to a lesser extent abroad. Third-party payors are often reluctant to reimburse healthcare providers for the use of medical diagnostic products incorporating new technology. Because each third-party payor individually approves reimbursement, obtaining these approvals can be a time-consuming and costly process that requires us to provide scientific and clinical support for the use of each of these products to each third-party payor separately with no assurance that approval will be obtained. For example, the policies of some third-party payors limit reimbursement for the use of our Fetal Fibronectin Test to women with signs and symptoms of preterm labor. This individualized process can delay the market acceptance of new products and may have a negative effect on our revenues and operating results. Market acceptance of our products internationally may depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement within prevailing healthcare payment systems. Reimbursement and healthcare payment systems in international markets vary significantly by country and include both government sponsored healthcare and private insurance. We may not obtain international reimbursement approvals in a timely manner, if at all. Our failure to receive international reimbursement approvals may negatively impact market acceptance of our products in the international markets in which those approvals are sought. We believe third-party payors are increasingly limiting coverage for medical diagnostic products in the United States and internationally, and in many instances are exerting pressure on medical products suppliers to reduce their prices. Consequently, third-party reimbursement may not be consistently available or adequate to cover the cost of our products. Additionally, third-party payors who have previously approved a specific level of reimbursement may reduce that level. Under prospective payment systems, in which healthcare providers may be reimbursed a set amount based on the type of diagnostic procedure performed, such as those utilized by Medicare and in many privately managed care systems, the cost of our products may not be justified and reimbursed. This could limit our ability to commercialize and sell new products and continue to sell our existing products, or may cause the prices of our existing products to be reduced, which may adversely affect our revenues and operating results. If we fail to properly manage our anticipated growth in the US or abroad, we may incur significant additional costs and expenses and our operating results may suffer. Growth of our business is likely to place a significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources and systems. In the United States, while we anticipate hiring additional personnel to assist in the planned expansion of sales efforts for our current products and the development of future products, we may not be able to successfully increase sales of current products or introduce new products and meet our growth goals. To manage our anticipated growth, we must attract and retain qualified personnel and manage and train them effectively. We will depend on our personnel and third parties to effectively market our products to an increasing number of hospitals, physicians and other healthcare providers. We will also depend on our personnel to develop next generation technologies. Further, our anticipated growth will place additional strain on our suppliers and manufacturers, as well as our own internal manufacturing processes, resulting in an increased need for us to carefully monitor for quality assurance. In addition, we may choose or be required to relocate or expand our manufacturing facility to accommodate potential growth in our business. Any failure by us to manage our growth effectively could have an adverse effect on our ability to achieve our revenue and profitability goals. Our plans to expand our presence in international markets will cause us to incur various costs and expenses and may strain our operating and financial systems and resources in a manner that could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We will be subject to the regulatory oversight of additional authorities as we expand internationally. These authorities may impose regulations and restrictions on the sales and marketing of our products that are different and potentially more restrictive than those placed on us by regulators in the US. We may be required to expend considerable resources to comply with these requirements. Ultimately, we may not be able to comply with such regulations in a timely manner, if at all. If we are unable to satisfy these requirements on commercially reasonable terms, our ability to commercialize our products would be hampered and our revenues may be adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents We will need to devote considerable resources to comply with federal, state and foreign regulations and, if we are unable to fully comply, we could face substantial penalties. We are directly or indirectly through our customers subject to extensive regulation by both the federal government and the states and foreign countries where we conduct our business. Companies such as ours are required to expend considerable resources complying, in particular, with laws such as the following: • the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, which regulates the design, testing, manufacture, labeling, marketing, distribution and sale of medical devices; • the Federal Anti-Kickback Law, which prohibits the illegal inducement of referrals for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid Programs; • Medicare laws and regulations that prescribe the requirements for coverage and payment, including the amount of such payment, and laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement under Medicare and Medicaid; • CE mark which could limit our ability to sell in Europe; and • ISO 13485 which could limit our ability to sell in Canada. Companies such as ours are also required to comply with laws and regulations regarding the practice of medicine by non-physicians, consumer protection and Medicare and Medicaid payments. If our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or the other governmental regulations to which we or our customers are subject, we may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. If we are required to obtain permits or licenses under these laws that we do not already possess, we may become subject to substantial additional regulation or incur significant expense. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations may adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Because many of these laws have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations and additional legal or regulatory change, we may be at a heightened risk of being found to be in violation of these laws. If we expand our business beyond diagnostic products, we will need to comply with laws and regulations in addition to those applicable to diagnostic products. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business and damage our reputation. If we are unable to maintain our existing regulatory approvals and clearances for our existing products, or obtain new regulatory approvals and clearances for our product candidates, our ability to commercially distribute our products and our business may be significantly harmed. The FDA, and comparable agencies of other countries generally regulate our products as medical devices. In the United States, FDA regulations govern, among other things, the activities that we perform, including product development, product testing, product labeling, product storage, manufacturing, advertising, promotion, product sales, reporting of certain product failures and distribution. Most of the new products that we plan to develop and commercialize in the United States will require either pre-market notification, also known as 510(k) clearance, or pre-market approval, from the FDA prior to marketing. The 510(k) clearance process requires us to notify the FDA of our intent to market a medical device. The overall 510(k) clearance process usually takes from three to twelve months from the time of submission to the time that you can begin to sell a product in the market, but can take significantly longer. The pre-market approval process, often referred to as the PMA process, is much more costly, lengthy and uncertain and generally takes between one and three years from submission to PMA approval, but may take significantly longer and such clearance or approval may never be obtained. All of the products that we have submitted and may submit in the future for FDA clearance or approval are or will be subject to substantial restrictions, including, among other things, restrictions on the indications 20 Table of Contents for which we may market our products, which could result in reductions in or an inability to grow our revenues. Even if regulatory approval of a product is granted, the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or certain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the performance and clinical utility of the product. For example, any of our products that have received FDA approval, such as our FullTerm, The Fetal Fibronectin Test or TLiIQ System, remain subject to ongoing post-marketing regulation and oversight by the FDA. The marketing claims that we are permitted to make in labeling our diagnostic products, if cleared or approved by the FDA, are limited to those specified in any clearance or approval. Our intention to expand the use of our products into new areas such as the prediction of successful induction of labor and oncology will require us to make new submissions to the FDA. In addition, we are subject to review, periodic inspection and marketing surveillance by the FDA to determine our compliance with regulatory requirements for any product for which we obtain marketing approval. Following approval, our manufacturing processes, subsequent clinical data and promotional activities are subject to ongoing regulatory obligations. If the FDA finds that we have failed to comply with these requirements or later discovers previously unknown problems with our products, including unanticipated adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, manufacture or manufacturing processes or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, it can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from a public warning letter to more severe sanctions, including: • fines, injunctions and civil penalties; • recall or seizure of our products; • restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes, including operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production; • denial of requests for 510(k) clearances or PMAs of product candidates; • withdrawal of 510(k) clearances or PMAs already granted; • disgorgement of profits; and • criminal prosecution. Any of these enforcement actions could affect our ability to commercially distribute our products in the United States and may also harm our ability to conduct the clinical trials necessary to support the marketing, clearance or approval of these products and could materially and adversely affect our business. Our PMA supplement seeking approval for use of our FullTerm, The Fetal Fibronectin Test in predicting successful induction of labor has been submitted to the FDA. The FDA initially placed its review of the application on hold while a third party we have engaged conducts an audit of all of the clinical study sites because of the number of protocol deviations, in order to confirm the accuracy of the data. The audit has been completed and we will need to submit new analyses of the data and a corrective action plan to the FDA before it will resume its review of the application. The new analyses of the data or the corrective action plan may not be acceptable to us or to the FDA and we may not continue to pursue or obtain FDA approval for this application. We rely on our CLIA-certified laboratory located at our facility in Sunnyvale, California to process E-tegrity Tests. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or the CMS, requires that operators of CLIA-certified laboratories submit to surveillance and follow-up inspections. If we are unable to meet the CMS’s requirements for continued operation pursuant to CLIA, our laboratory may lose its CLIA certification, and we may be unable to continue to process E-tegrity Tests. As a result, our business may be harmed. 21 Table of Contents If we modify our marketed products, we may be required to obtain new 510(k) clearances or PMAs, or we may be required to cease marketing or recall the modified products until clearances are obtained. Any modification to a 510(k)-cleared or pre-market approved diagnostic device that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, requires a new 510(k) clearance or PMA, such as the development of our FullTerm, The Fetal Fibronectin Test as a diagnostic test for the induction of labor. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make the determination of whether new clearance or approval is required for 510(k)-cleared devices. The FDA may review any manufacturer’s decision. The FDA may not agree with our decisions regarding whether new clearances or approvals are necessary. If the FDA requires us to seek 510(k) clearance or PMA for any modification to a previously cleared or approved product, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified product until we obtain clearance or approval, and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. Any recall or FDA requirement that we seek additional approvals or clearances could result in delays, fines, costs associated with modification of a product, loss of revenue and potential operating restrictions imposed by the FDA. If we or any of our third-party manufacturers do not operate in accordance with Quality System Regulations, we could be subject to FDA enforcement actions, including the seizure of our products and the halt of our production. We and any third-party manufacturers that we currently rely on or will rely on in the future, including those we rely on to produce components of our products, must continuously adhere to the current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, set forth in the FDA’s Quality System Regulations, or QSR, and enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. In complying with QSR, we and our third-party manufacturers must expend significant time, money and effort in design and development, testing, production, record keeping and quality control to assure that our products meet applicable specifications and other regulatory requirements. The failure to comply with these specifications and other requirements could result in an FDA enforcement action, including the seizure of products and shutting down of production. We or any of these third-party manufacturers may also be subject to comparable or more stringent regulations of foreign regulatory authorities. In any of these circumstances, our ability to develop, produce and sell our products could be impaired. We have received regulatory approvals for some of the operations located at our Sunnyvale, California headquarters, including our CLIA-certified laboratory. Should we choose to relocate, or if for some reason we are required to relocate some or all of our facilities from this location, we may be required to apply for regulatory approvals for the new location. It may be difficult or impossible for us to obtain the necessary approvals to continue our business in its present form at any such new location, and our business may be harmed as a result. If we experience delays in the development of new products or delays in planned improvements to our products, our commercial opportunities will be reduced and our future competitive position may be adversely affected. To improve our competitive position, we believe that we will need to develop new products as well as improve our existing instruments, reagents and ancillary products. Improvements in automation and the number of tests that can be performed in a specified period of time will be important to the competitive position of our products as we market to a broader, perhaps less technically proficient, group of customers. Our ability to develop new products and make improvements in our products may face difficult technological challenges leading to delays in development, particularly if we expand our business beyond diagnostic products. If we are unable to successfully complete development of new products or if we are unable to successfully complete the planned enhancements to our products, in each case without significant delays, our future competitive position may be adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents If other companies develop and market technologies or diagnostic products faster than we do, or if those products are more cost effective or useful than our products, our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated. The extent to which any of our technologies and products achieve and sustain market acceptance will depend on numerous competitive factors, many of which are beyond our control. Competition in the medical devices and diagnostic products industries is intense and has been accentuated by the rapid pace of technological development. While no company directly competes with us in our core markets, there are other diagnostic techniques currently in use to diagnose the likelihood of preterm birth, such as ultrasound. In addition, other companies may develop new diagnostic products or technologies that could compete with or entirely displace our products and technologies. For example, other biomarkers, including cytokines and other proteins indicative of infection, and proteomics are the subject of research that may yield new products or technologies. The effectiveness of these alternative techniques may improve with time and additional research by clinicians or manufacturers. The medical devices and diagnostic products industries include large diagnostics and life sciences companies. Most of these entities have substantially greater research and development capabilities and financial, scientific, manufacturing, marketing, sales and service resources than we do. Some of them also have more experience than we do in research and development, clinical trials, regulatory matters, manufacturing, marketing and sales. These organizations also compete with us to: • pursue acquisitions, joint ventures or other collaborations; • license proprietary technologies that are competitive with our technologies; • attract funding; and • attract and hire scientific and other talent. If we cannot successfully compete with new products or technologies, sales of our products and our competitive position will suffer, and our stock price might be adversely affected. Because of their greater experience with commercializing technologies and larger research and development capabilities, other companies might succeed in developing and commercializing technologies or products earlier and obtaining regulatory approvals and clearances from the FDA more rapidly than we do. Other companies also might develop more effective technologies or products that are more predictive, more highly automated or more cost-effective, which may render our technologies or products obsolete or non-competitive. We rely on a limited number of suppliers, and if these suppliers fail or are unable to perform in a timely and satisfactory manner, we may be unable to manufacture our products or satisfy product demand in a timely manner, which could delay the production or sale of our products. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for both raw materials and components necessary for the manufacture of our products, including our FullTerm, The Fetal Fibronectin Test and TLiIQ System. We acquire all of these components, assemblies and raw materials on a purchase-order basis, which means that the supplier is not required to supply us with specified quantities over a certain period of time or to set aside part of its inventory for our forecasted requirements. If we need alternative sources for key components, assemblies or raw materials for any reason, such components, assemblies or raw materials may not be immediately available. If alternative suppliers are not immediately available, we will have to identify and qualify alternative suppliers, and delivery of such components, assemblies or raw materials may be delayed. Consequently, if we do not forecast properly, or if our suppliers are unable or unwilling to supply us in sufficient quantities or on commercially acceptable terms, we may not have access to sufficient quantities of these components, assemblies and raw materials on a timely basis and may not be able to satisfy product demand. We may not be able to find an adequate alternative supplier if required, in a reasonable time period, or on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. Our inability to obtain a supplier for the manufacture of our products may force us to curtail or cease operations, which would have a material adverse effect on our product sales and profitability. We also relied upon a fulfillment provider to process orders for our products, coordinate invoicing and collections, as well as ship our products to customers in the United States through 23 Table of Contents September 30, 2005. In the fourth quarter of 2005, we transferred the fulfillment operation back to Adeza. Any problems with this transition may have a material adverse effect on our product sales and profitability. In addition, if any of these components, assemblies or raw materials are no longer available in the marketplace, we will be forced to further develop our technologies to incorporate alternate components, assemblies and raw materials and to do so in compliance with QSR. If we incorporate new components, assemblies or raw materials into our products, we may need to seek and obtain additional approvals or clearances from the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies, which could delay the commercialization of these products. We depend on distributors to market and sell our products in overseas markets, and if our foreign distributors fail in their efforts or are unwilling or unable to devote sufficient resources to market and sell our products, our ability to effectively market our products and our business will be harmed. Our international sales, which totaled $1.0 million in the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 and $0.8 million in the year ending December 31, 2003, currently depend upon the marketing efforts of and sales by certain distributors in Europe, Australia, the Pacific Rim region and South America. In most instances, our distribution arrangements are governed by short-term purchase orders. We also rely upon certain of these distributors to assist in obtaining product registration and reimbursement approvals in certain international markets, and we may not be able to engage qualified distributors in our targeted markets. The distributors that we are able to obtain may not perform their obligations. If a distributor fails to invest adequate resources and support in promoting our products and training physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers in the proper techniques for using our products or in awareness of our products, or if a distributor ceases operations, we would likely be unable to achieve significant sales in the territory represented by the distributor. If we decide to market new products abroad, we will likely need to educate our existing or new distributors about these new products and convince them to distribute the new products. If these distributors are unwilling or unable to market and sell our products, we may experience delayed or reduced market acceptance and sales of our products outside the United States. Our failure to engage adequate distributors, or the failure of the distributors to perform their obligations as expected, may harm our ability to effectively market our products and our business. The regulatory approval process outside the United States varies depending on foreign regulatory requirements and may limit our ability to develop, manufacture and sell our products internationally. To market any of our products outside of the United States, we and certain of our distributors, are subject to numerous and varying foreign regulatory requirements, implemented by foreign health authorities, governing the design and conduct of human clinical trials and marketing approval for diagnostic products. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval set forth above, and approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by the health authorities of any other country, nor does the approval by foreign health authorities ensure approval by the FDA. If our products do not perform as expected, we may experience reduced revenue, delayed or reduced market acceptance of our products, increased costs and damage to our reputation. Our success depends on the market’s confidence that we can provide reliable, high quality medical diagnostic devices. Our customers are particularly sensitive to product defects and errors because of the use of our products in medical practice. Our reputation and the public image of our products may be impaired for any of the following reasons: • failure of our products to perform as expected; • a perception that our products are difficult to use; and • litigation concerning the performance of our products. 24 Table of Contents Even after any underlying problems are resolved, any manufacturing defects or performance errors in our products could result in lost revenue, delay in market acceptance, damage to our reputation, increased service and warranty costs and claims against us. If product liability suits or other claims and product field actions are initiated against us, we may be required to engage in expensive and time-consuming litigation, pay substantial damages, face increased insurance rates and sustain damage to our reputation, which would significantly impair our financial condition. Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims and field action risks that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of diagnostic products. We may be unable to avoid product liability claims or field actions, including those based on claims that the use or failure of our products resulted in a misdiagnosis or harm to a patient. Although we believe that our liability coverage is adequate for our current needs, and while we intend to expand our product liability insurance coverage to any products for which we obtain marketing approval, insurance may be unavailable, prohibitively expensive or may not fully cover our potential liabilities. If we are unable to maintain sufficient insurance coverage on reasonable terms or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims or field actions, we may be unable to continue to market our products and develop new markets. Defending a lawsuit could be costly and significantly divert management’s attention from conducting our business. A successful product liability claim brought against us in excess of any insurance coverage we have at that time could cause us to incur substantial liabilities, potentially in excess of our total assets, and our business to fail. In addition, we are a specialty company focused on women’s health. We have a narrow customer base that is subject to significant malpractice litigation that may place us at risk of the same. In addition, product liability claims or product field action or other regulatory proceedings may damage our reputation by raising questions about our products’ safety and efficacy, could significantly harm our reputation, interfere with our efforts to market our products and make it more difficult to obtain the funding and commercial relationships necessary to maintain our business. We depend on the services of key personnel to implement our strategy, and if we lose key management or scientific personnel, scientific collaborators or other advisors or are unable to attract and retain other qualified personnel, we may be unable to execute our business plan and our operations and business would suffer. Our success depends, in large part, on the efforts and abilities of Emory Anderson, who is our President and Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Durlin Hickok, who is our Vice President, Medical Affairs, Dr. Robert Hussa, our Vice President, Research and Development, Mark Fischer-Colbrie, who is our Vice President of Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer, and Marian Sacco, our Vice President, Sales and Marketing, as well as the other members of our senior management and our scientific and technical personnel. While we have executed management continuity agreements, we do not currently have employment agreements with any of these individuals. We do not currently carry key person insurance on the lives of any of these executives. Many of these people have been members of our executive team for several years, and their knowledge of our business would be difficult or time-consuming to replace. We also depend on our scientific collaborators and other advisors, particularly with respect to our research and development efforts. If we lose the services of one or more of our key officers, employees or consultants, or are unable to retain or attract the services of existing or new scientific collaborators and other advisors, our research and development and product development efforts could be delayed or curtailed, our ability to execute our business strategy would be impaired, and our stock price might be adversely affected. Most of our operations are currently conducted at a single location that may be at risk from earthquakes and other natural or unforeseen disasters. We currently conduct all of our manufacturing, development and management activities at a single location in Sunnyvale, California near known fault zones. In addition, our E-tegrity Tests are currently processed solely through our CLIA-certified laboratory located at our Sunnyvale facility. Despite precautions taken by us, any future natural or man-made disaster, such as a fire, earthquake or terrorist activity, could 25 Table of Contents cause substantial delays in our operations, damage or destroy our equipment or inventory, and reduce our sales or cause us to incur additional expenses. In addition, the facility and some pieces of manufacturing equipment would be difficult to replace and could require substantial replacement lead-time. A disaster could seriously harm our business and results of operations. While we carry insurance for certain business interruptions, some natural and man-made disasters are excluded from our insurance policies, including those caused by terrorist acts or earthquakes. We believe that our insurance coverage is generally adequate for our current needs in the event of losses not caused by excluded events, but we may be subject to interruptions caused by excluded events or extraordinary events resulting in losses in excess of our insurance coverage or for which we have no coverage. This could impair our operating results and financial condition. If we use biological and hazardous materials in a manner that causes injury, we could be liable for damages. Our research and development activities sometimes involve the controlled use of potentially harmful biological materials, hazardous materials and chemicals that are dangerous to human health and safety or the environment. We are subject on an ongoing basis to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and specified waste products. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations might be significant and could negatively affect our profitability. We believe our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply in all material aspects with federal, state and local laws and regulations and to date, we have not been required to take any action to correct any noncompliance. However, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury to third parties from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials. Although we believe our insurance coverage is adequate for our current needs, in the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any liability could exceed our resources or any applicable insurance coverage we may have. Potential business combinations could require significant management attention and prove difficult to integrate with our business, which could distract our management, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our operating results. If we become aware of potential business combination candidates to our business, which could include license, co-promote, joint venture, and other types of arrangements, we may decide to combine with such businesses or acquire their assets in the future. We have acquired businesses or product lines in the past. For example, we acquired exclusive rights to the SalEst Test in 2003. While we have not encountered such difficulties following our prior acquisitions, business combinations generally involve a number of additional difficulties and risks to our business, including: • failure to integrate management information systems, personnel, research and development and marketing, operations, sales and support; • potential loss of key current employees or employees of the other company; • disruption of our ongoing business and diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • potential loss of the other company’s customers; • failure to develop further the other company’s technology successfully; • unanticipated costs and liabilities; and • other accounting consequences. In addition, we may not realize benefits from any business combination we may undertake in the future. If we fail to successfully integrate such businesses, or the technologies associated with such business combinations into our company, the revenue and operating results of the combined company could be adversely affected. Any integration process would require significant time and resources, and we may not be able to manage the process successfully. If our customers are uncertain about our ability to operate on a 26 Table of Contents combined basis, they could delay or cancel orders for our products. We may not successfully evaluate or utilize the acquired technology or accurately forecast the financial impact of a combination, including accounting charges or volatility in the stock price of the combined entity. We may find challenges associated with integration particularly difficult if we acquire a business in an area unfamiliar to us or our senior management team. If we fail to successfully integrate other companies with which we may combine in the future, our business could be harmed. If we fail to obtain necessary funds for our operations, we will be unable to continue to develop and commercialize new products and technologies and we may need to downsize or halt our operations. We expect capital outlays and operating expenditures to increase over the next several years as we expand our infrastructure, commercialization, manufacturing, clinical trials and research and development activities. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents, will be sufficient to meet our operating and capital requirements for at least the next two years. However, our present and future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including, among other things: • the level of research and development investment required to maintain and improve our technology position; • costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights; • the success of our product sales and related collections; • our need or decision to acquire or license businesses, products or technologies; • maintaining or expanding our manufacturing or commercialization capacity; • competing technological and market developments; and • costs relating to changes in regulatory policies or laws that affect our operations. As a result of these factors, we may need to raise additional funds, and we cannot be certain that such funds will be available to us on acceptable terms when needed, if at all. In addition, if we raise additional funds through collaboration, licensing or other similar arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish potentially valuable rights to our future products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to expand our operations, develop new products, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated customer requirements and may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, eliminate or divest one or more of our research, clinical or sales and marketing programs or our entire business. RISKS RELATING TO OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights, we may not be able to compete effectively. Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our proprietary rights to the technologies used in our products. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, and nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual restrictions, to protect our proprietary technology. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. For example, our pending US and foreign patent applications may not issue as patents at all, or if they do, they may not issue as patents in a form that will be advantageous to us or may issue and be subsequently successfully challenged by others and invalidated. Additionally, our family of issued patents and patent applications, if and when issued, relating to our FullTerm, The Fetal Fibronectin Test and TLiIQ System, have a range of expiration dates from 2007 to 2025. Upon the expiration of one or more patents relating to our FullTerm, The Fetal Fibronectin Test and TLiIQ System, we may not be able to protect our proprietary rights relating to the technologies used in these products. In addition, our pending patent applications include claims to material aspects of our products and procedures that are not currently protected by issued patents. Both the patent application process and the process of managing patent disputes can be time-consuming and expensive. Competitors may be able to design 27 Table of Contents around our patents or develop products that provide outcomes comparable to ours. Although we have taken steps to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology, including entering into confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, consultants and advisors, such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. If any of these events occur, our business will suffer and the market price of our common stock may decline. Although we may initiate litigation to stop the infringement of our patent claims or to attempt to force an unauthorized user of our patented inventions or trade secrets to compensate us for the infringement or unauthorized use, patent and trade secret litigation is complex and often difficult and expensive, and would consume the time of our management and other significant resources. If the outcome of litigation is adverse to us, third parties may be able to use our technologies without payments to us. Moreover, other companies against whom we might initiate litigation may be better able to sustain the costs of litigation because they have substantially greater resources. Because of these factors relating to litigation, we may be effectively unable to prevent misappropriation of our patent and other proprietary rights. Our rights to use technologies and patents licensed to us by third parties are not within our control, and we may not be able to commercialize our products without these technologies. We have licensed a number of patents, including patents related to our FullTerm, The Fetal Fibronectin Test and our E-tegrity Test from third parties, including the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Inverness Medical and the University of Pennsylvania. Our business may significantly suffer if one or more of these licenses terminate or expire, if we or our licensors fail to abide by the terms of the licenses or fail to prevent infringement by third parties or if the licensed patents are found to be invalid. If we violate the terms of our licenses, or otherwise lose our rights to these patents, we may be unable to continue developing and selling our products. Our licensors or others may dispute the scope of our rights under any of these licenses. The licensors under these licenses may breach the terms of their respective agreements or fail to prevent infringement of the licensed patents by third parties. Loss of any of these licenses for any reason could materially harm our financial condition and operating results. In addition, if we determine that our products do not incorporate the patented technology that we have licensed from third parties, or that one or more of the patents that we have licensed is not valid, we may dispute our obligation to pay royalties to our licensors. Any dispute with a licensor could be complex, expensive and time-consuming and an outcome adverse to us could materially harm our business and impair our ability to commercialize our products, including our FullTerm, The Fetal Fibronectin Test. As a result, our stock price might be adversely affected. If the use of our technologies conflicts with the intellectual property rights of third parties, we may incur substantial liabilities, and we may be unable to commercialize products based on these technologies in a profitable manner, if at all. Other companies may have or acquire patent rights that they could enforce against us. If they do so, we may be required to alter our technologies, pay licensing fees or cease activities. If our technologies conflict with patent rights of others, third parties could bring legal action against us or our licensees, suppliers, customers or collaborators, claiming damages and seeking to enjoin manufacturing and marketing of the affected products. If these legal actions are successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages, we might have to obtain a license in order to continue to manufacture or market the affected products. A required license under the related patent may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications unknown to us or reissuance applications that may later result in issued patents upon which our technologies 28 Table of Contents may infringe. There could also be existing patents of which we are unaware that our technologies may infringe. In addition, if third parties file patent applications or obtain patents claiming technology also claimed by us in pending applications, we may have to participate in interference proceedings in the US Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention. If third parties file oppositions in foreign countries, we may also have to participate in opposition proceedings in foreign tribunals to defend the patentability of the filed foreign patent applications. We may have to participate in interference proceedings involving our issued patents or our pending applications. If a third party claims that we infringe upon its proprietary rights, it could cause our business to suffer in a number of ways, including: • we may become involved in time-consuming and expensive litigation, even if the claim is without merit; • we may become liable for substantial damages for past infringement if a court decides that our technologies infringe upon a competitor’s patent; • a court may prohibit us from selling or licensing our product without a license from the patent holder, which may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all, or which may require us to pay substantial royalties or grant cross-licenses to our patents; and • we may have to redesign our product so that it does not infringe upon others’ patent rights, which may not be possible or could require substantial funds or time. If any of these events occur, our business will suffer and the market price of our common stock may decline. If we are involved in intellectual property claims and litigation, the proceedings may divert our resources and subject us to significant liability for damages, substantial litigation expense and the loss of our proprietary rights. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate patent litigation. In addition, others may initiate patent litigation against us. We may become subject to interference proceedings conducted in patent and trademark offices to determine the priority of inventions. There are numerous issued and pending patents in the medical device field. The validity and breadth of medical technology patents may involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles may remain unresolved. Litigation may be necessary to assert or defend against infringement claims, enforce our issued and licensed patents, protect our trade secrets or know-how or determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Our involvement in intellectual property claims and litigation could: • divert existing management, scientific and financial resources; • subject us to significant liabilities; • allow our competitors to market competitive products without obtaining a license from us; • cause product shipment delays and lost sales; • require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all; or • force us to discontinue selling or modify our products, or to develop new products. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. Many of our employees were previously employed at universities or other diagnostic or biotechnology companies, including our potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets 29 Table of Contents or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key research personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to market existing or new products, which could severely harm our business. If we cannot obtain additional licenses to intellectual property owned by third parties that we desire to incorporate into new products we plan to develop, we may not be able to develop or commercialize these future products. We are developing diagnostic products designed to expand the utility of fetal fibronectin in multiple applications. The technology that we ultimately may use in the development and commercialization of these future products may be protected by patent and other intellectual property rights owned by third parties. If we are unable to obtain rights to use necessary third-party intellectual property under commercially reasonable terms, or at all, we may be unable to develop these products, and this could harm our ability to expand our commercial product offerings and to generate additional revenue from these products. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON STOCK If we are unable to timely satisfy new regulatory requirements relating to internal controls, our stock price could suffer. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that certain companies perform a comprehensive evaluation of their internal control over financial reporting. At the end of each fiscal year, we must perform an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting, include in our annual report the results of the evaluation, and have our independent auditors attest to such evaluation. If we fail to complete future evaluations on time, or if our independent auditors cannot attest to our future evaluations, we could fail to meet our regulatory reporting requirements and be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal controls, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. If our principal stockholders, executive officers and directors choose to act together, they may be able to control our management and operations, which may prevent us from taking actions that may be favorable to our stockholders. Our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders, and entities affiliated with them, beneficially owned in the aggregate approximately 32% of our common stock as of December 31, 2005. This significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling stockholders. These stockholders, acting together, have the ability to exert substantial influence over all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election and removal of directors and any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, they could dictate the management of our business and affairs. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination that could be favorable to our stockholders. The future sale of our securities could dilute our common stockholders’ investments and negatively affect our stock price. If our common stockholders sell substantial amounts of common stock in the public market, or the market perceives that such sales may occur, the market price of our common stock could fall. The holders of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, subject to some conditions, could require us to file registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. Furthermore, if we were to include in a company-initiated registration statement shares held by those holders pursuant to the exercise of their registration rights, the sale of those 30 Table of Contents shares could impair our ability to raise needed capital by depressing the price at which we could sell our common stock. If we issue equity or debt securities to raise additional funds, our existing stockholders may experience dilution and the new equity or debt securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. Furthermore, we may enter into financing transactions at prices that represent a substantial discount to market price. Raising funds through the issuance of equity securities will dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders. A negative reaction by investors and securities analysts to any sale of debt or our equity securities could result in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. The price and volume of our common stock experience fluctuations, which could lead to costly litigation for us. Our stock price has been volatile. From December 10, 2004, the date of our initial public offering, through December 31, 2005, our stock has traded as high as $21.75 and as low as $10.97. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, including: • media reports and publications and announcements about women’s health and cancer diagnostic products or new cancer treatments or innovations that could compete with our products; • new regulatory pronouncements, changes in regulatory guidelines, such as adverse changes in reimbursement for women’s health and cancer diagnostic products, and the timing of regulatory approvals concerning the products in our pipeline; • market conditions or trends related to the medical devices and diagnostic products industries or the market in general; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • the seasonal nature of our revenues and expenses; • variations in our quarterly operating results; and • changes in accounting principles. The market prices of the securities of medical devices and diagnostic products companies, particularly companies like ours without a long history of product sales and earnings, have been highly volatile and are likely to remain highly volatile in the future. This volatility has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Moreover, market prices for stocks of biotechnology and medical diagnostic related companies, particularly following an initial public offering, frequently reach levels that bear no relationship to the operating performance of these companies. These market prices may not be sustainable and are highly volatile. In the past, companies that experience volatility in the market price of their securities have often faced securities class action litigation. Whether or not meritorious, litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs, divert our management’s attention and resources and harm our ability to grow our business. Anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and under Delaware law may inhibit a change in control or a change in management that our stockholders consider favorable. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could delay or prevent a change of control or change in management that would provide our stockholders with a premium to the market price of our common stock. These provisions include those: • authorizing the issuance without further approval of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; • prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; • limiting the ability to remove directors; • limiting the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; 31 Table of Contents • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of stockholders; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law limits business combination transactions with 15% stockholders that have not been approved by our board of directors. These provisions and others could make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, or for members of our board of directors to be replaced, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. Because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt to replace the current management team. If a change of control or change in management is delayed or prevented, our stockholders may lose an opportunity to realize a premium on their shares of common stock or the market price of our common stock could decline. We do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, our stockholders must rely on stock appreciation for any return on their investment in our common stock We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and other factors and will be at the discretion of our board of directors. Accordingly, our stockholders will have to rely on capital appreciation, if any, to earn a return on their investment in our common stock. Furthermore, we may, in the future, become subject to contractual restrictions on, or prohibitions against, the payment of dividends. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION We maintain Internet websites at http://www.adeza.com and http://www.ffntest.com. We make available free of charge on or through our website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, reports filed pursuant to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”), and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities Exchange Commission. This Form 10-K includes statistical data obtained from industry publications. These industry publications generally indicate that the authors of these publications have obtained information from sources believed to be reliable but do not guarantee the accuracy and completeness of their information. While we believe these industry publications to be reliable, we have not independently verified their data. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 