Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other information contained in this report, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. Our workers’ compensation loss reserves may be inadequate to cover our ultimate liability for workers’ compensation costs. We maintain reserves (recorded as accrued liabilities on our balance sheet) to cover our estimated liabilities for our self-insured workers’ compensation claims. The determination of these reserves is based upon a number of factors, including current and historical claims activity, claims payment patterns and medical cost trends and developments in existing claims. Accordingly, reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability. Reserves can be affected by both internal and external events, such as adverse developments on existing claims or changes in medical costs, medical condition of the claimant, claims handling procedures, administrative costs and legal fees, inflation, and legal trends and legislative changes. Reserves are adjusted from time to time to reflect new claims, claim developments, or systemic changes, and such adjustments are reflected in the results of the periods in which the reserves are changed. The Company’s estimated accrual for workers’ compensation claims liabilities is based upon an actuarial estimate provided by the Company’s independent actuary. The estimated accrual does not include an estimated provision for the incidence of unknown catastrophic claims. Moreover, because of the uncertainties that surround estimating workers’ compensation loss reserves, we cannot be certain that our reserves are adequate. If our reserves are insufficient to cover our actual losses, we would have to increase our reserves and incur charges to our earnings that could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. Our self-insured retention for workers’ compensation claims is $5.0 million per occurrence in the majority of our self-insured states. In view of the Company’s favorable historical experience with large catastrophic claims and an opportunity to realize savings from lower excess workers’ compensation insurance premiums, we maintain our self-insured retention at $5.0 million per occurrence, except in Colorado and Maryland where our retention is at $2.0 million and $1.0 million per occurrence, respectively. Additionally, Ecole’s retention is at $5.0 million per occurrence for coverage in Arizona. Thus, the Company has financial risk for most workers’ compensation - 11 - Table of Contents claims under $5.0 million, on a per occurrence basis. This level of per occurrence retention may result in higher workers’ compensation costs to us with a corresponding negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. Adverse developments in the market for excess workers’ compensation insurance could lead to increases in our costs. We are a state-approved self-insured employer for workers’ compensation coverage in California, Oregon, Delaware, Maryland and Colorado, as well as in Washington for our staffing and management employees. To manage our financial exposure in the event of catastrophic injuries or fatalities, we maintain excess workers’ compensation insurance with a per occurrence retention of $5.0 million effective January 1, 2007, except in Colorado and Maryland where our retention is at $2.0 million and $1.0 million per occurrence, respectively. Additionally, Ecole’s retention is at $5.0 million per occurrence for coverage in Arizona. Changes in the market for excess workers’ compensation insurance may lead to limited availability of such coverage, additional increases in our insurance costs or further increases in our self-insured retention, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Economic conditions, particularly in California, may impact our ability to attract new clients and cause our existing clients to reduce staffing levels or cease operations. Weak economic conditions typically have a negative impact on small-and mid-sized businesses, which make up the majority of our clients. In turn, these businesses could cut costs, including trimming employees from their payrolls, or ceasing operations altogether. In addition, businesses may be reluctant to enter into new client service agreements because of the uncertainty regarding the timing of any economic recovery. These forces may result in decreased revenues due both to the downsizing of our current clients and difficulties in attracting new clients, and may also result in additional bad debt expense to the extent that existing clients cease operations. If we are unable to maintain our brand image and corporate reputation, our business may suffer. Our success depends in part on our ability to maintain our reputation for providing excellent service to our customers. Service quality issues, actual or perceived, even when false or unfounded, could tarnish the image of our brand and may cause customers to use other companies. Also, adverse publicity surrounding labor relations, security matters, and the like, or attempts to connect our Company to these sorts of issues could negatively affect our overall reputation. Damage to our reputation could reduce demand for our services and thus have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Our staffing business is vulnerable to economic fluctuations. Demand for our staffing services is sensitive to changes in the level of economic activity in the regions in which we do business. As economic activity slows down, companies often reduce their use of temporary employees before undertaking layoffs of permanent staff, resulting in decreased demand for staffing services. During strong economic periods, on the other hand, we often experience shortages of qualified employees to meet customer needs. - 12 - Table of Contents Changes in the market for workers’ compensation insurance in the state of California could adversely affect our business. Our concentration of business in California subjects our business to market risks involving the California workers’ compensation environment. During recent years, California has enacted several legislative reforms in an attempt to address concerns relating to its workers’ compensation system, including recent legislation that will cause us to end our self-insurance program for workers’ compensation in California. The California legislature or regulatory bodies in the state may attempt additional legislative or regulatory reforms in the future. Implementation of our proposed fronted insurance program in response to recent legislation is expected to result in increased costs and may remove a competitive advantage we had in California, our largest market. See “Business – Workers’ Compensation – Recent Developments in California” above. Any additional successful legislative reforms or non-governmental changes in market conditions in California could further lessen an important advantage we have in that state, leading to a reduction in our new business opportunities and a potential slowing in the growth of our business in California. Any such slowing would adversely affect our results of operations. Because we assume the obligation to make wage, tax and regulatory payments in respect of some employees, we are exposed to client credit risks. We generally assume responsibility for and manage the risks associated with our clients’ employee payroll obligations, including liability for payment of salaries and wages (including payroll taxes), as well as group health and retirement benefits. These obligations are fixed, whether or not the client makes payments to us as required by our services agreement, which exposes us to credit risks. We attempt to mitigate this risk by invoicing our clients at the end of their specific payroll processing cycle. We also carefully monitor the timeliness of our clients’ payments and impose strict credit standards on our customers. If we fail to successfully manage our credit risk, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Increases in unemployment claims could raise our state and federal unemployment tax rates which we may not be able to pass on to our customers. During weak economic conditions in our markets, the level of unemployment claims tend to rise as a result of employee layoffs at our clients and lack of work in our temporary staffing pool. The rise in unemployment claims often results in higher state and federal unemployment tax rates which in most instances cannot be concurrently passed on to our customers either due to existing client services agreements or competitive pricing pressures. Increases in our state and federal unemployment tax rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, particularly in the early part of the calendar year when effective payroll tax rates are at or near their maximum. If we are determined not to be an “employer” under certain laws and regulations, our clients may stop using our services, and we may be subject to additional liabilities. We are the administrative employer in our co-employment relationships under the various laws and regulations of the Internal Revenue Service and the U.S. Department of Labor. If we are determined not to be the administrative employer under such laws and - 13 - Table of Contents regulations and are therefore unable to assume our clients’ obligations for employment and other taxes, our clients may be held jointly and severally liable for payment of such taxes. Some clients or prospective clients may view such potential liability as an unacceptable risk, discouraging current clients from continuing a relationship with us or prospective clients from entering into a new relationship with us. Any determination that we are not the administrative employer for purposes of ERISA could adversely affect our cafeteria benefits plan operated under Section 125 of the Internal Revenue Code and result in liabilities to us under the plan. We may be exposed to employment-related claims and costs and periodic litigation that could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We either co-employ employees in connection with our client services agreements or place our employees in our customers’ workplace in connection with our staffing business. As such, we are subject to a number of risks inherent to our status as the administrative employer, including without limitation: • claims of misconduct or negligence on the part of our employees, discrimination or harassment claims against our employees, or claims by our employees of discrimination or harassment by our clients; • immigration-related claims; • claims relating to violations of wage, hour and other workplace regulations; • claims relating to employee benefits, entitlements to employee benefits, or errors in the calculation or administration of such benefits; and • possible claims relating to misuse of customer confidential information, misappropriation of assets or other similar claims. If we experience significant incidents involving any of the above-described risk areas we could face substantial out-of-pocket losses, fines or negative publicity. In addition, such claims may give rise to litigation, which may be time consuming, distracting and costly, and could have a material adverse effect on our business. With respect to claims involving our co-employer relationships, although our client services agreement provides that the client will indemnify us for any liability attributable to the conduct of the client or its employees, we may not be able to enforce such contractual indemnification, or the client may not have sufficient assets to satisfy its obligations to us. If our efforts to protect the security of personal information about our employees and clients are unsuccessful, we could be subject to costly government enforcement actions and private litigation and our reputation could suffer. The nature of our business involves the receipt, storage, and transmission of personal and proprietary information about thousands of employees and some clients. If we experience a significant data security breach or fail to detect and appropriately respond to a significant data security breach, we could be exposed to government enforcement actions and private litigation. In addition, our employees and clients could lose confidence in our - 14 - Table of Contents ability to protect their personal and proprietary information, which could cause them to terminate their relationships with us. Any loss of confidence arising from a significant data security breach could hurt our reputation, further damaging our business. We operate in a complex regulatory environment, and failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. Corporate human resource operations are subject to a broad range of complex and evolving laws and regulations, including those applicable to payroll practices, benefits administration, employment practices and privacy. Because our clients have employees in many states throughout the United States, we must perform our services in compliance with the legal and regulatory requirements of multiple jurisdictions. Some of these laws and regulations may be difficult to ascertain or interpret and may change from time to time. Violation of such laws and regulations could subject us to fines and penalties, damage our reputation, constitute a breach of our client agreements, impair our ability to obtain and renew required licenses, and decrease our profitability or competitiveness. If any of these effects were to occur, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Changes in government regulations may result in restrictions or prohibitions applicable to the provision of employment services or the imposition of additional licensing, regulatory or tax requirements. Our business is heavily regulated in most jurisdictions in which we operate. We cannot assure you that the states in which we conduct or seek to conduct business will not: • impose additional regulations that prohibit or restrict employment-related businesses like ours; • require additional licensing or add restrictions on existing licenses to provide employment-related services; or • increase taxes or make changes in the way in which taxes are calculated for providers of employment-related services. Any changes in applicable laws and regulations may make it more difficult or expensive for us to do business, inhibit expansion of our business, or result in additional expenses that limit our profitability or decrease our ability to attract and retain clients. The tax status of our insurance subsidiaries could be challenged resulting in an acceleration of income tax payments. In conjunction with our workers’ compensation program, we operate two wholly owned insurance subsidiaries, AICE and Ecole. We recognize the two subsidiaries as insurance companies for federal income tax purposes, with respect to our consolidated federal income tax return. In the event the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) were to determine that the subsidiaries do not qualify as insurance companies, we could be required to make accelerated income tax payments to the IRS that we otherwise would have deferred until future periods. - 15 - Table of Contents We may find it difficult to expand our business into additional states due to varying state regulatory requirements. Future growth in our operations depends, in part, on our ability to offer our services to prospective clients in new states, which may subject us to different regulatory requirements and standards. In order to operate effectively in a new state, we must obtain all necessary regulatory approvals, adapt our procedures to that state’s regulatory requirements and modify our service offerings to adapt to local market conditions. In the event that we expand into additional states, we may not be able to duplicate in other markets the financial performance experienced in our current markets. Acquisitions subject us to various risks, including risks relating to selection and pricing of acquisition targets, integration of acquired companies into our business and assumption of unanticipated liabilities. We have completed 27 acquisitions since 1993 and may pursue additional acquisitions and investment opportunities. We cannot assure, however, that we will be able to identify or complete additional acquisitions. If we do pursue acquisitions, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions. Acquisitions involve many risks, including risks relating to the assumption of unforeseen liabilities of an acquired business, adverse accounting charges resulting from the acquisition, and difficulties in integrating acquired companies into our business, both from a cultural perspective, as well as with respect to personnel and client retention and technological integration. Acquired liabilities may be significant and may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our inability to successfully integrate acquired businesses may lead to increased costs, failure to generate expected returns, accounting charges, or even a total loss of amounts invested, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to risks associated with geographic market concentration. Our California and Oregon operations accounted for approximately 74% and 8%, respectively, of our total net revenues in 2013. As a result of the current importance of our California and Oregon operations and anticipated continued growth from these operations, our profitability over the next several years is expected to be largely dependent on economic and regulatory conditions in these markets, particularly in California. If these states experience economic downturn, or if the regulatory environment changes in a way that adversely affects our ability to do business in these states or limits our competitive advantages in these markets, our profitability and growth prospects may be materially and adversely affected. We face competition from a number of other companies. We face competition from various companies that may provide all or some of the services we offer. Our competitors include companies that are engaged in staffing services such as Kelly Services, Inc. and Manpower Inc., companies that are focused on co-employment, such as Insperity, Inc. and companies that primarily provide payroll processing services, such as Automatic Data Processing, Inc. and Paychex, Inc. We also face competition from information technology outsourcing firms and broad-based outsourcing and consulting firms that perform individual projects. - 16 - Table of Contents Several of our existing or potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do, which may enable them to: • develop and expand their infrastructure and service offerings more quickly and achieve greater cost efficiencies; • invest in new technologies; • expand operations into new markets more rapidly; • devote greater resources to marketing; • compete for acquisitions more effectively and complete acquisitions more easily; and • aggressively price products and services and increase benefits in ways that we may not be able to match financially. In order to compete effectively in our markets, we must target our potential clients carefully, continue to improve our efficiencies and the scope and quality of our services, and rely on our service quality, innovation, education and program clarity. If our competitive advantages are not compelling or sustainable, then we are unlikely to increase or sustain profits and our stock price could decline. We are dependent upon certain key personnel and recruitment and retention of key employees may be difficult and expensive. We believe that the successful operation of our business is dependent upon our retention of the services of key personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer, other executive officers and area managers. We may not be able to retain all of our executives, senior managers and key personnel in light of competition for their services. If we lose the services of one of our executive officers or a significant number of our senior managers, our operations and profitability likely would be adversely affected. We do not have an expansive in-house sales staff and therefore rely extensively on referral partners. We maintain a minimal internal professional sales force and we rely heavily on referral partners to provide referrals to new business, especially in California, although each area manager is expected to be an effective leader in business development, including marketing efforts and sales closures. In connection with these arrangements, we pay a fee to referral partners for new clients. As a result, we are dependent on firms and individuals that do not have an exclusive relationship with us. If we are unable to maintain these relationships, if they increase their fees or lose confidence in our services, we could face declines in our business and additional costs and uncertainties as we attempt to hire and train an internal sales force. We depend on attracting and retaining qualified employees; during periods of economic growth, our costs to do so increase and it becomes more difficult to attract and retain people. The success of our staffing services depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees for placement with our customers. Our ability to attract and retain - 17 - Table of Contents qualified personnel could be impaired by rapid improvement in economic conditions resulting in lower unemployment and increases in compensation. During periods of economic growth, we face growing competition for retaining and recruiting qualified personnel, which in turn leads to greater advertising and recruiting costs and increased salary expenses. If we cannot attract and retain qualified employees, the quality of our services may deteriorate and our reputation and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our service agreements may be terminated on short notice, leaving us vulnerable to loss of a significant amount of customers in a short period of time, if business or regulatory conditions change or events occur that negatively affect our reputation. Our client services agreements are generally terminable on 30 days’ notice by either us or the client. As a result, our clients may terminate their agreement with us at any time, making us particularly vulnerable to changing business or regulatory conditions or changes affecting our reputation or the reputation of our industry. Our industry has at times received negative publicity that, if it were to become more prevalent, could cause our business to decline. In the industries in which we compete, companies periodically have been tarnished by negative publicity or scandals from poor business judgment or even outright fraud. If we or our industry face negative publicity, customers’ confidence in the use of temporary personnel or co-employed workers may deteriorate, and they may be unwilling to enter into or continue our staffing or co-employment relationships. If a negative perception were to prevail, it would be more difficult for us to attract and retain customers. Changes in state unemployment tax laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. In past years, there has been significant negative publicity relating to the use of staffing or PEO companies to shield employers from poor unemployment history and high unemployment taxes. New legislation enacted at the state or federal level to try to counter this perceived problem could have a material adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to market our services or making our services less attractive to our customers and potential customers. We are dependent upon technology services and if we experience damage, service interruptions or failures in our computer and telecommunications systems, our client relationships and our ability to attract new clients may be adversely affected. We rely extensively on our computer systems to manage our branch network, perform employment-related services, accounting and reporting, and summarize and analyze our financial results. Our systems are subject to damage or interruption from telecommunications failures, power-related outages, computer viruses and malicious attacks, security breaches and catastrophic events. If our systems are damaged or fail to function properly, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them, experience loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to manage our operations, and encounter a loss of client confidence. Because our business involves the storage of clients’ proprietary information and confidential personal data of employees, security breaches could expose us - 18 - Table of Contents to regulatory actions, litigation, possible liability or fines, and damage to our reputation. In addition, our clients’ businesses may be adversely affected by any system or equipment failure or breach we experience. As a result, our relationships with our clients may be impaired, we may lose clients, our ability to attract new clients may be adversely affected and we could be exposed to contractual liability. We may invest in upgrades or replacements to our existing systems or additional security measures, each of which can involve substantial costs and risks relating to installation and implementation. Maryland law and our Charter and bylaws contain provisions that could make the takeover of the Company more difficult. Certain provisions of Maryland law and our Charter and bylaws could have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring the Company, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions of our Charter and bylaws: • permit the Board of Directors to issue up to 500,000 shares of preferred stock with such rights and preferences, including voting rights, as the Board may establish, without further approval by the Company’s stockholders, which could also adversely affect the voting power of holders of our common stock; and • vest the power to adopt, alter or repeal the Company’s bylaws solely in the Board of Directors; the stockholders do not have that power. In addition, the Company is subject to the Maryland control share act (the “Control Share Act”). Under the Control Share Act, a person (an “Acquiring Person”) who acquires voting stock in a transaction (a “Control Share Acquisition”) which results in its holding voting power within specified ranges cannot vote the shares it acquires in the Control Share Acquisition unless voting rights are accorded to such control shares by the holders of two-thirds of the outstanding voting shares, excluding the Acquiring Person and the Company’s officers and directors who are also employees of the Company. The Company is also subject to the provisions of Maryland law limiting the ability of certain Maryland corporations to engage in specified business combinations (the “Business Combination Act”). Subject to certain exceptions, the Business Combination Act prohibits a Maryland corporation from engaging in a business combination with a stockholder who, with its affiliates, owns 10% or more of the corporation’s voting stock. These provisions will not apply to business combinations that are approved by the Board of Directors before the stockholder became an interested stockholder. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. - 19 - Table of Contents 