ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Forward-Looking Statements This Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Reference is made in particular to the description of our plans and objectives for future operations, assumptions underlying such plans and objectives and other forward-looking statements included in this section, “Item 1 Business,” “Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and in other places in this Report. Such statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “may,” “will,” “expect,” “believe,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “continue,” or similar terms, variations of such terms or the negative of such terms. Such statements are based on management’s current expectations and are subject to a number of factors and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. We expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect any change in our expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based. Factors that could cause such results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements include those set forth below. Risks Relating to our Business The automotive industry, which represents our primary market, has significantly declined over the past two years and may continue to decline causing our product revenues to decline Demand for our products is directly related to automotive vehicle production. Recently, automotive sales and production have be significantly and adversely affected by general economic and industry conditions, labor relations issues, fuel prices, regulatory requirements, trade agreements and other factors. Generally, the vehicle models offering our CCS product as an optional feature have experienced significant production declines in 2008 and 2009. The automobile original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”), especially those based in the United States, have recently experienced significant operating losses and are continuing to restructure their operations, which could have a material adverse impact on our future financial results. Continued declines in automotive production levels, particularly with respect to models for which we supply CCS products, would materially reduce our revenues and harm our profitability. We may suffer significant losses should more of our customers or any of the major automotive manufacturers declare bankruptcy either for the first time or again If any of our customers or any of the major automotive manufacture files for bankruptcy protection, we face the risks of being unable to collect a significant portion of our outstanding accounts receivable and of suffering a significant loss of future revenues. In such an event, a considerable amount of the accounts receivable owed to us from our customers might not be paid. In addition, if a automotive manufacturer that incorporates our products in its vehicles were to declare bankruptcy and cease operations, our future operating profits would be significantly impacted by the significant loss of revenue. We cannot be certain that all of the automotive manufactures or our tier one customers will avoid filing for bankruptcy during the current significant downturn in the automotive industry or during other periods in the future. Some of our tier one suppliers and some of the major automotive manufacturers have declared bankruptcy in the past year and have emerged from bankruptcy, but there is no certainty that those entities will not declare bankruptcy again. 9 Table of Contents We have only one commercially successful product in one industry segment and we may not be able to commercialize and market additional products to other industries We are currently developing advanced designs of TEDs to be used in a wide range of potential products in a number of industries, but to date we have only one commercially successful product. Although we have made significant improvements in TED technology and we believe that a number of new products have become practical at our current stage of TED advancement, additional improvements are necessary to make TED based products commercially attractive in comparison with other technologies for the major markets in which we are targeting. These advancements are dependent on many variables including but not limited to new advanced materials becoming available and efficient and cost effective manufacturing processes for advanced TEDs and the related materials being developed. We have incurred substantial operating losses since our inception and anticipate incurring additional operating losses during upcoming periods Although we have reported operating income during the past six years, prior to that we incurred substantial operating losses since our inception. Furthermore, our operating income for 2009 was substantially lower then in previous years. We had operating losses of $1,554,000 in 2003, $6,168,000 in 2002, and $7,537,000 in 2001. We reported operating losses during the first and second quarters of 2009 due to the significant decline in our product revenue during those periods. As of December 31, 2009, we had accumulated deficits since inception of $37,782,000. Our accumulated deficits are attributable to the historical costs of developmental and other start-up activities, including the industrial design, development and marketing of discontinued products and a significant loss incurred on a major electric vehicle development contract. Approximately $33,000,000 of our accumulated deficit arose from past efforts in electric vehicles, integrated voice technology and radar, all discontinued products as of December 31, 2000. We have funded our financial needs from inception primarily through net proceeds received through our initial public offering as well as other equity and debt financing. At December 31, 2009, we had cash and cash equivalents of $21,677,000 and short term investments of $6,704,000. Based on our current operating plan, we believe cash and short term investments at December 31, 2009, along with the proceeds from future revenues and borrowings from our $10,000,000 revolving line of credit will be sufficient to meet operating needs for the foreseeable future. Our ability to market our products successfully depends on acceptance of our product by original equipment manufactures and consumers We are engaged in a lengthy development process of our advanced TEDs which involves developing prototypes for proof of concept and then adapting the basic systems to actual products produced by existing manufactures of products that may use TEDs. While we currently have active development programs with various partners no assurance can be given that our advanced TEDs will be implemented in any related products. To date, CCS is our sole high-volume commercialized product, and there is no assurance that we will be successful in marketing any additional products using TEDs. Significant increases in the market prices of certain raw materials may adversely affect our business Our products contain TEDs which contain certain raw materials that cannot generally be substituted. As an example, Tellurium is a raw material used in TEDs. If the market prices for these raw materials significantly increases, our gross profit may be adversely impacted as our suppliers pass those price increases on to us. A recent increase in the price of Tellurium is one example of the impact raw material prices could have on our business. Our suppliers passed the increase in Tellurium prices on to us and our ability to recover this increase from our customers was limited. Our business and operations could also be materially adversely affected by shortages in key raw materials. 10 Table of Contents The disruption or loss of relationships with vendors and suppliers for the components for our products could materially adversely affect our business Our ability to manufacture and market our products successfully is dependent on relationships with both third party vendors and suppliers. We rely on various vendors and suppliers for the components of our products and procure these components through purchase orders, with no guaranteed supply arrangements. Certain components, including thermoelectric devices and the specially designed fans used in our CCS product, are only available from a limited number of suppliers. The loss of any significant supplier, in the absence of a timely and satisfactory alternative arrangement, or an inability to obtain essential components on reasonable terms or at all, could materially adversely affect our business, operations and cash flows. Our business and operations could also be materially adversely affected by delays in deliveries from suppliers. The outsourcing of production to other countries entails risks of production interruption and unexpected costs We outsource production of our CCS product to lower cost countries in order to be price competitive and expand our market beyond the luxury vehicle segment. Such production is currently completed by suppliers located in Nogales, Mexico and Nagoya, Japan and three cities in China; Shenzhen, Tianjin and Hangzhou. Our use of suppliers located outside of the United States entails risk of production interruption and unexpected costs due to the extended logistics. Automobile manufacturers demand on-time delivery of quality products, and some have required the payment of substantial financial penalties for failure to deliver components to their plants on a timely basis. Such penalties, as well as costs to avoid them, such as overtime costs and overnight air freighting of parts that normally are shipped by other less expensive means of transportation, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Moreover, the inability to meet demand for our products on a timely basis would materially adversely affect our reputation and future commercial prospects. We may not be able to persuade potential customers of the merits of our products and justify their costs to increase our sales Because of the sophisticated nature and early stage of development of our products, we have been, and will continue to be, required to educate potential customers and demonstrate that the merits of our products justify the costs associated with such products. We have relied on, and will continue to rely on, automobile manufacturers and manufacturers in other industries and their dealer networks to market our products. The success of any such relationship will depend in part on the other party’s own competitive, marketing and strategic considerations, including the relative advantages of alternative products being developed and/or marketed by any such party. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to market our products successfully so as to generate meaningful product sales increases or to continue at existing sales volumes. The sales cycle for our products is lengthy and the lengthy cycle impedes growth in our sales The sales cycle in the automotive components industry is lengthy and can be as long as four years or more for products that must be designed into a vehicle, because some companies take that long to design and develop a vehicle. Even when selling parts that are neither safety-critical nor highly integrated into the vehicle, there are still many stages that an automotive supply company must go through before achieving commercial sales. The sales cycle is lengthy because an automobile manufacturer must develop a high degree of assurance that the products it buys will meet customer needs, interface as easily as possible with the other parts of a vehicle and with the automobile manufacturer’s production and assembly process, and have minimal warranty, safety and service problems. As a result, from the time that a manufacturer develops a strong interest in our CCS product, it normally will take several years before our CCS product is available to consumers in that manufacturer’s vehicles. In the automotive components industry, products typically proceed through five stages of research and development. Initial research on the product concept comes first, to assess its technical feasibility and economic 11 Table of Contents costs and benefits. This stage often includes development of an internal prototype for the component supplier’s own evaluation. If the product appears feasible, the component supplier manufactures a functioning prototype to demonstrate and test the product’s features. These prototypes are then marketed and sold to automotive companies for testing and evaluation. If an automobile manufacturer shows interest in the product, it typically works with the component supplier to refine the product, then purchases second and subsequent generation engineering prototypes for further evaluation. Finally, the automobile manufacturer either decides to purchase the component for a production vehicle or terminates the program. The time required to progress through these five stages to commercialization varies widely. Generally, the more a component must be integrated with other vehicle systems, the longer the process takes. Further, products that are installed by the factory usually require extra time for evaluation because other vehicle systems are affected, and a decision to introduce the product into the vehicle is not easily reversed. Because our CCS product affects other vehicle systems and is a factory-installed item, the process takes a significant amount of time to commercialization. Other TED products that we develop are also likely to have a lengthy sales cycle. Because such technology is new and evolving, and because customers will likely require that any new product we develop pass certain feasibility and economic viability tests before committing to purchase, it is expected that any new products we develop will take some years before they are sold to customers. The automotive industry is subject to intense competition and our current products may be rendered obsolete by future technological developments in the industry The automotive component industry is subject to intense competition. Virtually all of our competitors are substantially larger in size, have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources, and have more extensive experience and records of successful operations than we do. Competitors are promoting new products that may compete with our CCS product. Additionally, heat only devices are readily available from our competitors at relatively low prices. Competition extends to attracting and retaining qualified technical and marketing personnel. There can be no assurance that we will successfully differentiate our products from those of our competitors, that the marketplace will consider our current or proposed products to be superior or even comparable to those of our competitors, or that we can succeed in establishing new or maintaining existing relationships with automobile manufacturers. Furthermore, no assurance can be given that competitive pressures we face will not adversely affect our financial performance. Due to the rapid pace of technological change, as with any technology-based product, our products may even be rendered obsolete by future developments in the industry. Our competitive position would be adversely affected if we were unable to anticipate such future developments and obtain access to the new technology. Any failure to protect our intellectual property could harm our business and competitive position As of December 31, 2009, we owned 15 U.S. patents and had 27 U.S. patents pending. We also owned 23 foreign patents and had 19 foreign patent applications pending. Through our subsidiary BSST, we owned 16 U.S. patents, 24 foreign patents and had 29 U.S. patents pending and 46 foreign patents pending. We were also licensees of one U.S. patent and joint owners with Honda Motor Co. of two U.S. patents and three Japanese patents. We believe that patents and proprietary rights have been and will continue to be very important in enabling us to compete. There can be no assurance that any new patents will be granted or that our or our licensors’ patents and proprietary rights will not be challenged or circumvented or will provide us with meaningful competitive advantages or that pending patent applications will issue. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop similar products or will not design around any patents that have been or may be issued to our licensors or us. Failure to obtain patents in certain foreign countries may materially adversely affect our ability to compete effectively in those international markets. We hold current and future rights to licensed technology through licensing agreements requiring the payment of minimum royalties. Failure to continue with or loss of such agreements could materially and adversely affect our business. 12 Table of Contents Because of rapid technological developments in the automotive industry and the competitive nature of the market, the patent position of any component manufacturer is subject to uncertainties and may involve complex legal and factual issues. Consequently, although we either own or have licenses to certain patents, and are currently processing several additional patent applications, it is possible that no patents will issue from any pending applications or that claims allowed in any existing or future patents issued or licensed to us will be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented, or that any rights granted there under will not provide us adequate protection. There is an additional risk that we may be required to participate in interference proceedings to determine the priority of inventions or may be required to commence litigation to protect our rights, which could result in substantial costs. Our products may conflict with patents that have been or may be granted to competitors or others Other persons could bring legal actions against us claiming damages and seeking to enjoin manufacturing and marketing of our products for allegedly conflicting with patents held by them. Any such litigation could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of effort by our management and technical personnel. If any such actions are successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages, we could be required to obtain a license in order to continue to manufacture or market the affected products. There can be no assurance that we would prevail in any such action or that any license required under any such patent would be made available on acceptable terms, if at all. Failure to obtain needed patents, licenses or proprietary information held by others may have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, if we become involved in litigation, it could consume a substantial portion of our time and resources. We are currently involved in litigation with a competitor, W.E.T. Automotive Systems AG, which may require a substantial commitment of time and money and divert resources from other ongoing projects. From time to time, we receive notices from third parties suggesting that our products infringe on the proprietary rights of others. While we believe that none of the claims of infringement received to date are valid, we must spend time and resources reviewing those claims and defending ourselves. We rely on trade secret protection through confidentiality agreements and the agreements could be breached We also rely on trade secrets that we seek to protect, in part, through confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with employees, customers and other parties. There can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that we would have adequate remedies for any such breach or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known to or independently developed by competitors. To the extent that consultants, key employees or other third parties apply technological information independently developed by them or by others to our proposed projects, disputes may arise as to the proprietary rights to such information that may not be resolved in our favor. We may be involved from time to time in litigation to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of proprietary rights. Any such litigation could result in substantial cost and diversion of effort by our management and technical personnel. Additionally, with respect to licensed technology, there can be no assurance that the licensor of the technology will have the resources, financial or otherwise, or desire to defend against any challenges to the rights of such licensor to its patents. Our customers typically reserve the right unilaterally to cancel contracts or reduce prices, and the exercise of such right could reduce or eliminate any financial benefit to us anticipated from such contract Automotive customers typically reserve the right unilaterally to cancel contracts completely or to require price reductions. Although they generally reimburse companies for actual out-of-pocket costs incurred with respect to the particular contract up to the point of cancellation, these reimbursements typically do not cover costs associated with acquiring general purpose assets such as facilities and capital equipment, and may be subject to negotiation and substantial delays in receipt by us. Any unilateral cancellation of, or price reduction with respect to any contract that we may obtain could reduce or eliminate any financial benefits anticipated from such contract and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. To date, we have not experienced such a cancellation and no such costs have been incurred. 13 Table of Contents The third parties that contract with our subsidiary, BSST, for research and development purposes generally also reserve the right to unilaterally terminate those contracts. There can be no assurance that BSST will continue to receive the third party reimbursements it has received over the past several years. Our success will depend in large part on retaining key personnel Our success will depend to a large extent upon the continued contributions of key personnel in Amerigon and our research and development subsidiary, BSST. The loss of the services of Daniel R. Coker, the President and Chief Executive Officer of Amerigon, or Dr. Lon E. Bell, the President of BSST, could have a material adverse effect on the success of our business. Our success will also depend, in part, upon our ability to retain qualified engineering and other technical and marketing personnel. There is significant competition for technologically qualified personnel in our business and we may not be successful in recruiting or retaining sufficient qualified personnel. Our reliance on outside major contractors may impair our ability to complete certain projects and manufacture products on a timely basis We have engaged outside contractors to perform product assembly and other production functions for us. We believe that there are other outside contractors that provide services of the kind that are used by us and that we may desire to use in the future. However, no assurance can be given that any such contractors would agree to work for us on terms acceptable to us or at all. Our inability to engage outside contractors on acceptable terms or at all would impair our ability to complete any development and/or manufacturing contracts for which outside contractors’ services may be needed. Moreover, our reliance upon third party contractors for certain production functions reduces our control over the manufacture of our products and makes us dependent in part upon such third parties to deliver our products in a timely manner, with satisfactory quality controls and on a competitive basis. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks which are inherent in the manufacturing, marketing and sale of automotive components. In particular, there are substantial warranty and liability risks associated with our products. If available, product liability insurance generally is expensive. While we presently have product liability coverage at amounts we currently consider adequate, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain or maintain such insurance on acceptable terms with respect to other products we may develop, or that any insurance will provide adequate protection against any potential liabilities. In the event of a successful claim against us, a lack or insufficiency of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Because many of the largest automotive manufacturers are located in foreign countries, our business is subject to the risks associated with foreign sales Many of the world’s largest automotive manufacturers are located in foreign countries. Accordingly, our business is subject to many of the risks of international operations, including governmental controls, tariff restrictions, foreign currency fluctuations and currency control regulations. However, historically, substantially all of our sales to foreign countries have been denominated in U.S. dollars. As such, our historical net exposure to foreign currency fluctuations has not been material. No assurance can be given that future contracts will be denominated in U.S. dollars or that existing contracts will be honored by our suppliers or customers, especially with respect to our customers and suppliers whose cost structure and revenue are denominated in other currencies. 14 Table of Contents Our use of contractors located in foreign countries will subject us to the risks of international operations We engage contractors located in foreign countries. Accordingly, we will be subject to all of the risks inherent in international operations, including work stoppages, transportation delays and interruptions, political instability, foreign currency fluctuations, economic disruptions, the imposition of tariffs and import and export controls, changes in governmental policies and other factors which could have an adverse effect on our business. The recent global economic and financial market crisis has had and may continue to have a negative effect on our business and operations. The recent global economic and financial market crisis has caused, among other things, a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, lower consumer and business spending, and lower consumer net worth, all of which has had and may continue to have a negative effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Many of our tier-one customers, their OEM customers and our suppliers have been severely affected by the current economic turmoil, including bankruptcy. There is no certainty that our customers and suppliers will continue to be in business. The current crisis could continue to lead to reduced demand for our products and could result in customer payment delays or defaults. Further, suppliers may not be able to supply us with needed raw materials on a timely basis, may increase prices or go out of business, which could result in our inability to meet consumer demand or affect our financial results. The timing and nature of any recovery in the credit and financial markets remains uncertain, and there can be no assurance that market conditions will improve in the near future or that our financial results will not continue to be materially and adversely affected. Such conditions make it very difficult to forecast operating results, make business decisions and identify and address material business risks. The foregoing conditions may also impact the valuation of our Federal Net Operating Loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) which are subject to impairment testing, potentially resulting in impairment charges which may be material to our financial condition or results of operations. See Note 4 of our consolidated financial statements and related financial information indexed on page F-1 of this report for a more complete description of our NOLs. Credit market developments may reduce availability under our credit agreement. Due to the current volatile state of the credit markets, there is risk that lenders, even those with strong balance sheets and sound lending practices, could fail or refuse to honor their legal commitments and obligations under existing credit commitments, including but not limited to: extending credit up to the maximum permitted by a credit facility, allowing access to additional credit features and otherwise accessing capital and/or honoring loan commitments. If our lender fails to honor their legal commitments under our $10,000,000 credit facility, it could be difficult in the current environment to replace our credit facility on similar terms. Although we believe that our cash reserves, access to capital markets and existing credit facility will give us the ability to satisfy our liquidity needs for at least the next 12 months, the failure of the lender under our credit facility may impact our ability to finance our operating or investing activities. We do not control ZT Plus, a joint venture we recently formed with a partner, and we cannot be certain that the joint venture will succeed in its purpose or that our partner will fulfill its obligations with respect to the joint venture Through our subsidiary, BSST, we have entered into a joint venture partnership agreement with 5N Plus Inc. to form ZT Plus. ZT Plus’ primary purpose is to develop and manufacture more efficient thermoelectric materials. There can be no certainty that the joint venture will succeed in this purpose. The joint venture is owned 50% by BSST and 50% by 5N Plus Inc. Because we do not control the joint venture, we do not have the ability to direct its business or operations and must rely upon the cooperation of our joint venture partner. In addition, our joint venture partner has agreed to certain obligations with respect to the joint venture, including to fund a significant portion of the joint venture’s operating costs. There can be no certainty that our partner will fulfill such obligations. A failure of the joint venture, or of our partner to fulfill its obligations with respect to the joint venture, could adversely affect our business. 15 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Share Ownership Our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly, and the relatively small average daily trading volume of our Common Stock may adversely affect the liquidity of our Common Stock and stock price Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future due to such factors as acceptance of our product by automotive manufacturers and consumers, timing of our product introductions, availability and pricing of components from third parties, competition, timing of orders, foreign currency exchange rates, technological changes and economic conditions generally. Broad market fluctuations in the stock markets can adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. In addition, failure to meet or exceed analysts’ expectations of financial performance may result in immediate and significant price and volume fluctuations in our Common Stock. Historically, the average daily trading volume of our Common Stock has been relatively low as compared to the total number of outstanding shares of Common Stock. Without a significantly larger number of shares made available for trading by the public, our Common Stock is less liquid than stocks with more trading activity, and as a result, trading prices of our Common Stock may significantly fluctuate and certain institutional investors may be unwilling to invest in such a thinly traded security. We have anti-takeover defenses that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 4,991,000 shares of Preferred Stock and to determine the price, rights (including conversion rights), preferences and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by the shareholders. Consistent with this authority, in January, 2009 our Board adopted a Shareholder Rights Plan (the “Rights Plan”) in which one purchase right was distributed as a dividend on each share of common stock held of record as of the close of business on February 10, 2009 (the “Rights”). If exercisable, each Right will entitle its holder to purchase from the Company one one-thousandth of a share of a newly created Series B Preferred Stock of the Company for $20.00 (the “Purchase Price”). The Rights will become exercisable if any person or group becomes the beneficial owner of 15% or more of the Company’s common stock or has commenced a tender or exchange offer which, if consummated, would result in any person or group becoming the beneficial owner of 15% or more of the Company’s common stock. If any person or group becomes the beneficial owner of 15% or more of the Company’s common stock, each right will entitle its holder, other than the acquiring person, to purchase a number of shares of the Company’s or the acquiror’s common stock having a value of twice the Purchase Price. The Rights are deemed attached to the certificates representing outstanding shares of common stock. The Rights Plan is designed to deter coercive takeover tactics and to prevent an acquiror from gaining control of the Company without offering a fair price to all of the Company’s shareholders; however, the existence of the Rights Plan and the rights of holders of any other shares of preferred stock that may be issued in the future, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. We do not anticipate paying dividends on our Common Stock We have never paid any cash dividends on our Common Stock and do not anticipate paying dividends in the near future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 