ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Forward-Looking Statements This Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Reference is made in particular to the description of our plans and objectives for future operations, assumptions underlying such plans and objectives and other forward-looking statements included in this section, “Item 1 Business,” “Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and in other places in this Report. Such statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “may,” “will,” “expect,” “believe,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “continue,” or similar terms, variations of such terms or the negative of such terms. Such statements are based on management’s current expectations and are subject to a number of factors and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. We expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect any change in our expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based. Factors that could cause such results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements include those set forth below. Risks Relating to Our Business The automotive industry, which represents our primary market, may decline causing our product revenues to decline Demand for our products is directly related to automotive vehicle production. In 2008 and 2009, automotive sales and production were significantly and adversely affected by general economic and industry conditions, labor relations issues, fuel prices, regulatory requirements, trade agreements and other factors. Although general automotive sales have improved in the past few years, there remains significant uncertainty in the automotive industry. Declines in automotive production levels, particularly with respect to models for which we supply products, would materially reduce our revenues and harm our profitability. The automotive industry may continue to be negatively impacted by the devastating effects of the 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan. On March 11, 2011, a 9.0 magnitude undersea earthquake occurred off the coast of Japan. The earthquake triggered an extremely destructive tsunami wave that struck Japan shortly after the earthquake. These events have caused extensive and severe structural damage in Japan, including heavy damage to nuclear power plants, manufacturing facilities, roads and railways, as well as fires in many areas. Many electrical generators ceased operation, and nuclear reactors suffered debilitating explosions. As a result of these disasters, there have been various disruptions to certain of our customers’ production of vehicles and to the flow of parts from production facilities in Japan that supply the worldwide automotive industry. These events have had a significant impact on our operations and we are not certain what impact these events will continue to have on our business as Japan continues its recovery. We may suffer significant losses should any of our customers or any of the major automotive manufacturers declare bankruptcy either for the first time or again If any of our customers or any of the major automotive manufacturers files for bankruptcy protection, we face the risks of being unable to collect a significant portion of our outstanding accounts receivable and of suffering a significant loss of future revenues. In such an event, a considerable amount of the accounts receivable owed to us from our customers might not be paid. In addition, if an automotive manufacturer that incorporates our products in its vehicles were to declare bankruptcy and cease operations, our future operating profits would be significantly impacted by the significant loss of revenue. We cannot be certain that all of the automotive 10 Table of Contents manufactures or our tier one customers will avoid filing for bankruptcy in the future. Some of our tier one supplier customers and some of the major automotive manufacturers declared bankruptcy in during 2009 and have emerged from bankruptcy, but there is no certainty that those entities will not declare bankruptcy again if the automotive market were to suddenly turn negative. We may not be able to commercialize and market additional products to other industries We are currently developing products to be used in a wide range of industries. For example, we are expecting increased sales of our TED products to industries such as bed manufacturers and increased sales of W.E.T.’s heated and ventilated products for such applications as ski lifts and sports stadiums. However, such non-automotive applications only represent a small portion of our total revenues. Furthermore, although we have made significant improvements in TED technology and we believe that a number of new products have become practical at our current stage of TED advancement, additional improvements are necessary to make TED-based products commercially attractive in comparison with other technologies for the major markets in which we are targeting. These advancements are dependent on many variables including but not limited to new advanced materials becoming available and efficient and cost effective manufacturing processes for advanced TEDs and the related materials being developed. There is no certainty that any advancement in TEDs will be commercially viable or that we will be successful in generating significant revenues from non-automotive sales of any of our products. We have incurred substantial operating losses in the past and could incur additional operating losses in future periods We had operating losses of $1,554,000 in 2003, $6,168,000 in 2002, and $7,537,000 in 2001. As of December 31, 2011, we had accumulated deficits since inception of $25,716,000. Our accumulated deficits are attributable to the historical costs of developmental and other start-up activities, including the industrial design, development and marketing of discontinued products and a significant loss incurred on a major electric vehicle development contract. Approximately $33,000,000 of past losses arose from past efforts in electric vehicles, integrated voice technology and radar, all discontinued products as of December 31, 2000. During the recent downturn in the automotive industry, we report operating losses for several consecutive quarters due to the significant decline in our product revenue during those periods. If there is another significant downturn in the automotive industry, we would expect to report additional operating losses in future periods. We may not generate enough liquid assets to fund our ongoing operations We have funded our financial needs from inception primarily through net proceeds received through our initial public offering as well as other equity and debt financing. At December 31, 2011, we had cash and cash equivalents of $23,839,000. Based on our current operating plan, we believe our cash on hand along with the proceeds from future revenues will be sufficient to meet operating needs for the foreseeable future. However, if our revenues decline, we will be forced to fund our operations from alternative sources, which may not always be available. Our ability to market our products successfully depends on acceptance of our product by original equipment manufactures and consumers Our automotive seat temperature control products, which generate a majority of our revenues, go through a lengthy development process before being included in a vehicle model’s seat. The process includes developing prototypes for proof of concept and then adapting the systems to actual products produced by existing seat manufactures. While we currently have active development programs with various partners, no assurance can be given that our products will be implemented in any particular seats. Furthermore, automotive manufacturers will only include our products if there appears to be demand for temperature control seats from the ultimate purchasers of vehicles. If vehicle purchasers conclude that temperature control seats are unnecessary or too expensive, OEMs and seat manufactures will not be interested in including our seat temperature control products in their vehicles. 11 Table of Contents Significant increases in the market prices of certain raw materials may adversely affect our business Many of our products contain TEDs which contain certain raw materials that cannot generally be substituted. As an example, Tellurium is a raw material used in TEDs. If the market prices for these raw materials significantly increase, our gross profit may be adversely impacted as our suppliers pass those price increases on to us. A recent increase in the price of Tellurium is one example of the impact raw material prices could have on our business. Our suppliers passed the increase in Tellurium prices on to us and our ability to recover this increase from our customers was limited. Other key raw materials include copper, silver and petroleum based engineered plastics. Our business and operations could also be materially adversely affected by shortages in key raw materials. The disruption or loss of relationships with vendors and suppliers for the components for our products could materially adversely affect our business Our ability to manufacture and market our products successfully is dependent on relationships with both third party vendors and suppliers. We rely on various vendors and suppliers for the components of our products and procure these components through purchase orders, with no guaranteed supply arrangements. Certain components are only available from a limited number of suppliers. The loss of any significant supplier, in the absence of a timely and satisfactory alternative arrangement, or an inability to obtain essential components on reasonable terms or at all, could materially adversely affect our business, operations and cash flows. Our business and operations could also be materially adversely affected by delays in deliveries from suppliers. Production of our products in foreign countries entails risks of production interruption and unexpected costs We outsource production of our CCS products to lower cost countries in order to be price competitive. Such outsourced production is currently completed by suppliers located in Mexico, Japan and China. W.E.T. maintains production facilities in lower cost countries for similar cost containment reasons. W.E.T. currently has production facilities in Hungary, Ukraine, China and Mexico. Our use of production facilities located outside of the United States entails risk of production interruption and unexpected costs due to the uncertain nature of foreign operations and extended logistics. Automobile manufacturers, in particular, demand on-time delivery of quality products, and some have required the payment of substantial financial penalties for failure to deliver components to their plants on a timely basis. Such penalties, as well as costs to avoid them, such as overtime costs and overnight air freighting of parts that normally are shipped by other less expensive means of transportation, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Moreover, the inability to meet demand for our products on a timely basis would materially adversely affect our reputation and future commercial prospects. W.E.T. is subject to additional risks associated with its international operations that could adversely affect its results of operations. W.E.T. has significant personnel, property, equipment and operations in a number of countries outside of its headquarters in Germany, including China, Hungary, Mexico and the Ukraine. Long-term economic uncertainty in some of the regions of the world in which W.E.T. operates could result in the disruption of markets and negatively affect cash flows from W.E.T.’s operations to cover its capital needs and debt service. In addition, as a result of W.E.T.’s global presence, a significant portion of its revenues and expenses is denominated in currencies other than the Euro (its operational currency). W.E.T. is therefore subject to foreign currency risks and foreign exchange exposure, including to the Chinese renminbi, the Hungarian forint, the Mexican peso, the Ukrainian hryvnia and the Canadian dollar. While W.E.T. employs financial instruments to hedge transactional and foreign exchange exposure, these activities do not completely insulate W.E.T. from those exposures. Exchange rates can be volatile and could adversely impact W.E.T.’s financial results, and cause losses from the hedging instruments utilized. 12 Table of Contents There are other risks that are inherent in W.E.T.’s international operations, including the potential for changes in socio-economic conditions, laws and regulations, including import, export, labor and environmental laws, and monetary and fiscal policies, protectionist measures that may prohibit acquisitions or joint ventures, unsettled political conditions, natural and man-made disasters, hazards and losses, violence and possible terrorist attacks. Due to W.E.T.’s global operations, W.E.T. is subject to many laws governing international relations, including those that restrict where it can do business and what information or products it can supply to certain countries and foreign governments. Violations of these laws, which are complex, may result in criminal penalties or sanctions. These and other factors may have a material adverse effect on W.E.T.’s international operations and therefore on our business and results of operations. We are subject to significant currency risk associated with our investment in W.E.T. The operations of W.E.T. represent a significant portion of our consolidated business. W.E.T.’s functional currency is the Euro and, as noted above, W.E.T.’s global transactions are conducted in a number of different currencies. We, in turn, are subject to foreign currency risks and foreign exchange exposure, pertaining to changes in the value of the Euro. Changes in the exchange rate of Euros to U.S. Dollars could significantly affect our reported revenues and earnings. We may not be able to persuade potential customers of the merits of our products and justify their costs to increase our sales Because of the sophisticated nature and relatively early stage of development of our main products, we have been, and will continue to be, required to educate potential customers and demonstrate that the merits of such products justify the costs associated with such products. We have relied on, and will continue to rely on, automobile manufacturers and manufacturers in other industries and their dealer networks to market our products. The success of any such relationship will depend in part on the other party’s own competitive, marketing and strategic considerations, including the relative advantages of alternative products being developed and/or marketed by any such party. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to market our products successfully so as to generate meaningful product sales increases or to continue at existing sales volumes. The sales cycle for our automotive products is lengthy and the lengthy cycle impedes growth in our sales The sales cycle in the automotive components industry is lengthy and can be as long as four years or more for products that must be designed into a vehicle, because some companies take that long to design and develop a vehicle. Even when selling parts that are neither safety-critical nor highly integrated into the vehicle, there are still many stages that an automotive supply company must go through before achieving commercial sales. The sales cycle is lengthy because an automobile manufacturer must develop a high degree of assurance that the products it buys will meet customer needs, interface as easily as possible with the other parts of a vehicle and with the automobile manufacturer’s production and assembly process, and have minimal warranty, safety and service problems. As a result, from the time that a manufacturer develops a strong interest in our products, it normally will take several years before our products are available to consumers in that manufacturer’s vehicles. In the automotive components industry, products typically proceed through five stages of research and development. Initial research on the product concept comes first, to assess its technical feasibility and economic costs and benefits. This stage often includes development of an internal prototype for the component supplier’s own evaluation. If the product appears feasible, the component supplier manufactures a functioning prototype to demonstrate and test the product’s features. These prototypes are then marketed and sold to automotive 13 Table of Contents companies for testing and evaluation. If an automobile manufacturer shows interest in the product, it typically works with the component supplier to refine the product, then purchases second and subsequent generation engineering prototypes for further evaluation. Finally, the automobile manufacturer either decides to purchase the component for a production vehicle or terminates the program. The time required to progress through these five stages to commercialization varies widely. Generally, the more a component must be integrated with other vehicle systems, the longer the process takes. Further, products that are installed by the factory usually require extra time for evaluation because other vehicle systems are affected, and a decision to introduce the product into the vehicle is not easily reversed. Because our automotive products affect other vehicle systems and is a factory-installed item, the process takes a significant amount of time to commercialization. Other TED products that we develop are also likely to have a lengthy sales cycle. Because such technology is new and evolving, and because customers will likely require that any new product we develop pass certain feasibility and economic viability tests before committing to purchase, it is expected that any new products we develop will take some years before they are sold to customers. The automotive industry is subject to intense competition and our current automotive products may be rendered obsolete by future technological developments in the industry The automotive component industry is subject to intense competition. Many of our competitors are substantially larger in size and have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. Competitors are promoting new products that may compete with our products. Additionally, heat-only devices are readily available from our competitors at relatively low prices. Competition extends to attracting and retaining qualified technical and marketing personnel. There can be no assurance that we will successfully differentiate our products from those of our competitors, that the marketplace will consider our current or proposed products to be superior or even comparable to those of our competitors, or that we can succeed in establishing new or maintaining existing relationships with automobile manufacturers. Furthermore, no assurance can be given that competitive pressures we face will not adversely affect our financial performance. Due to the rapid pace of technological change, as with any technology-based product, our products may even be rendered obsolete by future developments in the industry. Our competitive position would be adversely affected if we were unable to anticipate such future developments and obtain access to the new technology. Any failure to protect our intellectual property could harm our business and competitive position We believe that patents and proprietary rights have been and will continue to be very important in enabling us to compete. There can be no assurance that any new patents will be granted or that our or our licensors’ patents and proprietary rights will not be challenged or circumvented or will provide us with meaningful competitive advantages or that pending patent applications will be approved. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop similar products or will not design around any patents that have been or may be issued to our licensors or us. Also, failure to obtain patents in certain foreign countries may materially adversely affect our ability to compete effectively in those international markets. Because of rapid technological developments in the automotive industry and the competitive nature of the market, the patent position of any component manufacturer is subject to uncertainties and may involve complex legal and factual issues. Consequently, although we either own or have licenses to certain patents, and are currently processing several additional patent applications, it is possible that no patents will issue from any pending applications or that claims allowed in any existing or future patents issued or licensed to us will be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented, or that any rights granted under such patents will not provide us adequate protection. There is an additional risk that we may be required to participate in interference proceedings to determine the priority of inventions or may be required to commence litigation to protect our rights, which could result in substantial costs. 14 Table of Contents Our products may conflict with patents that have been or may be granted to competitors or others Other persons could bring legal actions against us claiming damages and seeking to enjoin manufacturing and marketing of our products for allegedly conflicting with patents held by them. Any such litigation could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of effort by our management and technical personnel. If any such actions are successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages, we could be required to obtain a license in order to continue to manufacture or market the affected products. There can be no assurance that we would prevail in any such action or that any license required under any such patent would be made available on acceptable terms, if at all. Failure to obtain needed patents, licenses or proprietary information held by others may have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, if we become involved in litigation, it could consume a substantial portion of our time and resources. From time to time, we receive notices from third parties suggesting that our products infringe on the proprietary rights of others. While we believe that none of the claims of infringement received to date are valid, we must spend time and resources reviewing those claims and defending ourselves. We rely on trade secret protection through confidentiality agreements and the agreements could be breached We rely on trade secrets that we seek to protect, in part, through confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with employees, customers and other parties. There can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that we would have adequate remedies for any such breach or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known to or independently developed by competitors. To the extent that consultants, key employees or other third parties apply technological information independently developed by them or by others to our proposed projects, disputes may arise as to the proprietary rights to such information that may not be resolved in our favor. We may be involved from time to time in litigation to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of proprietary rights. Any such litigation could result in substantial cost and diversion of effort by our management and technical personnel. Additionally, with respect to licensed technology, there can be no assurance that the licensor of the technology will have the resources, financial or otherwise, or desire to defend against any challenges to the rights of such licensor to its patents. Our most significant customers typically reserve the right unilaterally to cancel contracts or reduce prices, and the exercise of such right could reduce or eliminate any financial benefit to us anticipated from such contract Automotive customers typically reserve the right unilaterally to cancel contracts completely or to require price reductions. Although they generally reimburse companies for actual out-of-pocket costs incurred with respect to the particular contract up to the point of cancellation, these reimbursements typically do not cover costs associated with acquiring general purpose assets such as facilities and capital equipment, and may be subject to negotiation and substantial delays in receipt by us. Any unilateral cancellation of, or price reduction with respect to any contract that we may obtain could reduce or eliminate any financial benefits anticipated from such contract and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The third parties that have agreed to reimburse portions of our research and development expenses generally also reserve the right to unilaterally terminate those contracts. There can be no assurance that we will continue to receive the third party reimbursements for any of our research and development efforts. Our success will depend in large part on retaining key personnel Our success will depend to a large extent upon the continued contributions of key personnel. The loss of the services of Daniel R. Coker, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Caspar Baumhauer, the Chief Executive Officer of W.E.T., or other officers could have a material adverse effect on the success of our business. Our success will also depend, in part, upon our ability to retain qualified engineering and other technical and marketing personnel. There is significant competition for technologically qualified personnel in our business and we may not be successful in recruiting or retaining sufficient qualified personnel. 15 Table of Contents Our reliance on outside major contractors may impair our ability to complete certain projects and manufacture products on a timely basis We have engaged outside contractors to perform product assembly and other production functions for us. We believe that there are other outside contractors that provide services of the kind that are used by us and that we may desire to use in the future. However, no assurance can be given that any such contractors would agree to work for us on terms acceptable to us or at all. Our inability to engage outside contractors on acceptable terms or at all would impair our ability to complete any development and/or manufacturing contracts for which outside contractors’ services may be needed. Moreover, our reliance upon third party contractors for certain production functions reduces our control over the manufacture of our products and makes us dependent in part upon such third parties to deliver our products in a timely manner, with satisfactory quality controls and on a competitive basis. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks which are inherent in the manufacturing, marketing and sale of automotive components. In particular, there are substantial warranty and liability risks associated with our products. If available, product liability insurance generally is expensive. While we presently have product liability coverage at amounts we currently consider adequate, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain or maintain such insurance on acceptable terms with respect to other products we may develop, or that any insurance will provide adequate protection against any potential liabilities. In the event of a successful claim against us, a lack or insufficiency of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Our business exposes us to potential environmental liability risks Because W.E.T. operates its own manufacturing facilities, it is exposed to potential environmental remediation risks which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Costs associated with environmental regulation at sites where W.E.T. may be liable and future expenses that W.E.T. may incur to remediate environmental damages could be considerably higher than anticipated. Because many of the largest automotive manufacturers are located in foreign countries, our business is subject to the risks associated with foreign sales Many of the world’s largest automotive manufacturers are located in foreign countries. Accordingly, our business is subject to many of the risks of international operations, including governmental controls, tariff restrictions, foreign currency fluctuations and currency control regulations. No assurance can be given that existing contracts will be honored by our foreign suppliers or customers. The Company began a foreign currency risk management strategy in January 2010 that includes the use of derivative financial instruments designed to protect our economic value from the possible adverse effects of currency fluctuations as it relates to payments to suppliers. There is no certainty that we will not suffer losses in connection with any derivative instruments. The recent global economic and financial market crisis has had and may continue to have a negative effect on our business and operations. The recent global economic and financial market crisis has caused, among other things, a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, lower consumer and business spending, and lower consumer net worth, all of which has had and may continue to have a negative effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Many of our tier-one customers, their OEM customers and our suppliers have been severely affected by the recent economic turmoil, including 16 Table of Contents bankruptcy. There is no certainty that our customers and suppliers will continue to be in business. The recent crisis could continue to lead to reduced demand for our products and could result in customer payment delays or defaults. Further, suppliers may not be able to supply us with needed raw materials on a timely basis, may increase prices or go out of business, which could result in our inability to meet consumer demand or affect our financial results. Although there has been some improvement in economic conditions starting in 2010, the timing and nature of any recovery in the credit and financial markets remains uncertain, and there can be no assurance that market conditions will continue to improve in the near future or that our financial results will not continue to be materially and adversely affected. Such conditions make it very difficult to forecast operating results, make business decisions and identify and address material business risks. The foregoing conditions may also impact the valuation of our Federal Net Operating Loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) which are subject to impairment testing, potentially resulting in impairment charges which may be material to our financial condition or results of operations. See Note 5 of our consolidated financial statements and related financial information indexed on page F-1 of this Report for a more complete description of our NOLs. We may not realize significant benefits from the W.E.T. acquisition because of integration difficulties and other challenges. The success of our acquisition of W.E.T. will depend, in part, on our ability to fully integrate W.E.T.’s business with our existing business. The integration process may be complex, costly and time-consuming. The difficulties of integrating the operations of W.E.T. with the operations of Amerigon include, among others: • strict requirements and minority shareholder protections under German law relating to business integration; • failure to implement our business plan for the combined business; • unanticipated issues in integrating manufacturing, logistics, information, communications and other systems; • diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns to integration matters; • challenges assimilating management and other personnel from W.E.T., including because of differences in culture, language and background; • the size of W.E.T.’s operations relative to our existing business; • unanticipated changes in applicable laws and regulations; • failure to retain key employees; • operating risks inherent in the W.E.T. business and our business; • the impact on our internal controls and compliance with the regulatory requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; and • unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities. We may not accomplish the integration of W.E.T. smoothly, successfully or within the anticipated costs or timeframe. The diversion of the attention of management from our operations to the integration effort and any difficulties encountered in combining operations could prevent us from realizing the full benefits anticipated to result from the W.E.T. acquisition and could adversely affect our business. Moreover, we may only be able to integrate W.E.T.’s business with our existing business and maximize the benefits of the W.E.T. acquisition if we are able to implement a DPLTA (described below). Until such time, W.E.T. will continue to be operated as a separate business, with separate management, which could prevent us from realizing the full benefits anticipated from our acquisition of W.E.T. 17 Table of Contents The actions by minority shareholders of W.E.T. may limit our ability to integrate W.E.T. Certain third parties continue to own an interest in W.E.T. Under German law, we cannot require W.E.T. to take actions that may result in cost savings and greater integration but would be deemed disadvantageous to W.E.T., unless and until a domination and profit and loss transfer agreement (a “DPLTA”) is effective. A certain minority shareholder of W.E.T. has challenged our ability to implement a DPLTA and we are currently engaged in litigation in Germany as a result of such challenge. Unless and until such litigation is resolved and a DPLTA is registered, our ability to take certain cost saving and integration measures may be delayed or may not be achievable at all. Under German law, all of our dealings with W.E.T. must be at arm’s length for as long as there are minority shareholders in W.E.T., unless a DPLTA has become effective. The actions by minority shareholders of W.E.T. may cause us to incur significant costs. As noted above, a certain minority shareholder of W.E.T. has challenged our ability to implement a DPLTA and we are currently engaged in litigation pertaining thereto. In addition, such minority shareholder has made several ancillary claims that relate to its opposition to the DPLTA and Amerigon’s acquisition of a majority interest in W.E.T. Our management may spend significant time defending against such challenge and such claims and we may incur significant costs in the process. Following completion of the acquisition of W.E.T., we have a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets on our consolidated financial statements that are subject to impairment testing. As a result of our acquisition of W.E.T. we now have significant goodwill and other intangible assets. We evaluate goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets for impairment annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. Goodwill impairment is indicated and indefinite life intangible assets are impaired when their book value exceeds their fair value. The value of goodwill and other intangible assets from the allocation of the purchase price from the W.E.T. acquisition will be derived from our business operating plans and is susceptible to an adverse change in demand, input costs or general changes in our business or industry and could require an impairment charge in the future. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant transaction and acquisition-related costs in connection with the acquisition of W.E.T. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs in connection with the acquisition of W.E.T., including with respect to the ongoing litigation to have a DPLTA registered in Germany. However, the substantial majority of the acquisition costs were non-recurring expenses. We may, in the future, incur additional costs to maintain employee morale, retain key employees and formulate and implement our integration plans. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to meet our substantial debt service obligations resulting from the acquisition of W.E.T. and such substantial debt service obligations could adversely affect our business and limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our business. We incurred substantial additional debt in connection with the acquisition of W.E.T. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our debt obligations and to fund planned capital expenditures depends on our ability to generate cash from our future operations. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, any of which could impede the implementation of our business strategy or prevent us from entering into transactions that would otherwise benefit our business. Additionally, we may not be able to effect such actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. 18 Table of Contents Our substantial debt obligations could have important consequences to our business. For example: • we may be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes, including for working capital, dividends, business development efforts and to finance mergers and acquisitions; • our ability to borrow more money for operations, working capital or to finance future mergers and acquisitions will be limited; • limiting our ability to refinance or repay debt obligations when they become due; • we are exposed to the risk of increased interest rates because a portion of our borrowings, including under our credit facility, are at variable rates of interest; and • our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate may be limited, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness. The covenants to which we are subject under our credit facility restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, grant additional liens against our assets, prepay obligations, make investments and enter into various types of agreements. We are additionally prohibited from making general dividends and other payments with respect to our equity interests in cash, excluding any such payments with respect to the Preferred Shares. While not unusual for a financing of this type, the restrictions in our credit facility may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business and may make it difficult for us to execute our business plans. Credit market developments may reduce availability under our credit agreement. Due to the current volatile state of the credit markets, there is risk that lenders, even those with strong balance sheets and sound lending practices, could fail or refuse to honor their legal commitments and obligations under existing credit commitments, including but not limited to, extending credit up to the maximum permitted by a credit facility, allowing access to additional credit features and otherwise accessing capital and/or honoring loan commitments. If our lenders fail to honor their legal commitments under our credit facilities, it could be difficult in the current environment to replace our credit facilities on similar terms. Although we believe that our cash reserves, access to capital markets and existing credit facilities will give us the ability to satisfy our liquidity needs for at least the next 12 months, the failure of our lenders under our credit facilities may impact our ability to finance our operating or investing activities. Holders of the Preferred Shares have rights that may restrict our ability to operate our business. Under our Articles of Incorporation, we are subject to certain covenants that limit our ability to create new series of preferred stock, other than series junior to the Series C Convertible Preferred Stock (the “Preferred Shares”), and to offer and sell certain types of variable priced securities. We are also limited, with certain exceptions, in our ability to incur additional debt while the Preferred Shares are outstanding. Such restrictions may have an adverse effect on our ability to operate our business while the Preferred Shares are outstanding. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly, and the relatively small average daily trading volume of our Common Stock may adversely affect the liquidity of our Common Stock and stock price Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future due to such factors as acceptance of our product by automotive manufacturers and consumers, timing of our product introductions, availability and pricing of components from third parties, competition, timing of orders, foreign currency exchange rates, 19 Table of Contents technological changes, resources spent on litigation activities and economic conditions generally. Broad market fluctuations in the stock markets can adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. In addition, failure to meet or exceed analysts’ expectations of financial performance may result in immediate and significant price and volume fluctuations in our Common Stock. Historically, the average daily trading volume of our Common Stock has been relatively low as compared to the total number of outstanding shares of Common Stock. Without a significantly larger number of shares made available for trading by the public, our Common Stock is less liquid than stocks with more trading activity, and as a result, trading prices of our Common Stock may significantly fluctuate and certain institutional investors may be unwilling to invest in such a thinly traded security. We have anti-takeover defenses that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock Our Board of Directors (our “Board”) has the authority to issue up to 4,991,000 shares of Preferred Stock and to determine the price, rights (including conversion rights), preferences and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by the shareholders; however, 7,000 Preferred Shares were issued as the Preferred Shares. Consequently, only 4,984,000 shares of preferred stock are available for issuance. Consistent with this authority, in January, 2009 our Board adopted a Shareholder Rights Plan (the “Rights Plan”) in which one purchase right was distributed as a dividend on each share of Company Common Stock held of record as of the close of business on February 10, 2009 (the “Rights”). If exercisable, each Right will entitle its holder to purchase from the Company one one-thousandth of a share of a newly created Series B Preferred Stock of the Company for $20.00 (the “Purchase Price”). The Rights will become exercisable if any person or group becomes the beneficial owner of 15% or more of the Company’s Common Stock or has commenced a tender or exchange offer which, if consummated, would result in any person or group becoming the beneficial owner of 15% or more of the Company’s Common Stock. If any person or group becomes the beneficial owner of 15% or more of the Company’s Common Stock, each right will entitle its holder, other than the acquiring person, to purchase a number of shares of the Company’s or the acquiror’s Common Stock having a value of twice the Purchase Price. The Rights are deemed attached to the certificates representing outstanding shares of Common Stock. The Rights Plan is designed to deter coercive takeover tactics and to prevent an acquiror from gaining control of the Company without offering a fair price to all of the Company’s shareholders; however, the existence of the Rights Plan and the rights of holders of any other shares of preferred stock that may be issued in the future, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. The terms of the Preferred Shares, including with respect to redemption, conversion, dividend payments and amortization, may put pressure on the trading price of our common stock. The Preferred Shares are convertible into shares of our common stock and we may redeem, pay dividends on or amortization amounts on, the Preferred Shares in cash, common stock, or any combination thereof. If our Preferred Shares are converted into common stock or if we redeem, pay dividends or amortization amounts with shares of common stock, the amount of stock we issue will be determined by reference to the average lowest fifteen volume weighted average prices of our common stock during the twenty (20) consecutive trading days ending two days prior to the date on which we determine whether to pay dividends or amortization amounts in shares of our common stock. Sales of our common stock during this twenty-day trading period by us, or permitted hedging activities by other investors, including holders of the Preferred Shares, could negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. Our issuance of substantial amounts of our common stock to holders of Preferred Shares could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Issuance by us of a substantial amount of additional shares of our common stock to the holders of Preferred Shares upon conversion of, redemption of or payment of dividends on such Preferred Shares as permitted by our Articles of Incorporation could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. 20 Table of Contents We are currently prohibited from making dividend payments on our common stock. Furthermore, we do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the future. Under the terms of our Articles of Incorporation, so long as any Preferred Shares are outstanding, no dividends or distributions (whether in cash, any securities or other property) are permitted to be made to holders of common stock. Furthermore, our bank credit facility also prohibits payment of dividends on our common stock so long as such facility is outstanding. We have never paid any cash dividends on our Common Stock and do not anticipate paying dividends in the near future. The repurchase right in the Preferred Shares triggered by a change of control or other fundamental transaction could discourage a potential acquirer. We may be required to repurchase all of the Preferred Shares in connection with a “change of control” or “fundamental transaction” as such terms are defined in the instruments governing the Preferred Shares. Such repurchase rights could discourage a potential acquirer due to the potentially significant costs associated with repurchasing such securities. If any holder of Preferred Shares converts its Preferred Shares into our common stock, or we use our common stock in connection with periodic redemptions of or dividend payments on, the Preferred Shares, our common stockholders will experience immediate dilution. Any holder of the Preferred Shares may, at any time, convert its Preferred Shares into our common stock. If any holder of our Preferred Shares so converts, our common stockholders will experience immediate dilution. In addition, our common stockholders will also experience dilution when and if we issue shares of common stock in connection with periodic redemptions of and dividend payments on the Preferred Shares. We are required to redeem the Preferred Shares in nine equal quarterly installments beginning on September 1, 2011 and ending on September 1, 2013 by paying cash, issuing shares of our common stock or any combination thereof for $10,000 per Preferred Share plus accumulated and unpaid dividends. If certain conditions are met, we can pay the installment amounts, as well as dividends, on the Preferred Shares, in shares of our common stock. In the event of a conversion by a holder of Preferred Shares into our common stock, the conversion ratio is computed as the price paid for the Preferred Shares being converted divided by $15.83, and then rounded up to the nearest whole share. In the event we elect to issue shares of common stock in connection with periodic redemptions of and dividend payments on the Preferred Shares, the conversion ratio is computed as the dollar amount being converted divided by the lower of (A) $15.83 and (B) the “Market Price” as of the date of conversation. The Market Price, for this purpose, is computed as a ten percent (10%) discount to the arithmetic average of the lowest fifteen (15) volume weighted average closing prices of our common stock during the twenty (20) consecutive trading day period ending two (2) trading days prior to the date of determination. Consequently, the number of shares of common stock that may be issued connection with periodic redemptions of and dividend payments on the Preferred Shares will fluctuate with the closing price of our common stock and will increase if the price of our common stock decreases. The resulting dilution of our existing common stockholders would increase if the price of our common stock decreases. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The price of our common stock on The NASDAQ Global Select Market may fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, including: • general market and economic conditions; • actual or anticipated variations in our operating results, funds from operations, cash flows, liquidity or distributions; 21 Table of Contents • changes in our earnings estimates or those of analysts; • publication of research reports about us, the automotive industry generally or automotive supplier industry, and recommendations by financial analysts with respect to us or other automotive suppliers; • adverse market reaction to the amount of our outstanding debt at any time, the amount of our maturing debt in the near and medium term and our ability to refinance such debt and the terms thereof or our plans to incur additional debt in the future; • the ability of our customers to pay us and meet their other obligations to us under current contract terms and our ability to hold and expand our customer base; • increases in market interest rates that lead purchasers of our shares of capital stock to demand a higher dividend yield; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • adverse market reaction to any securities we may register or issue or additional debt we incur in the future; • additions or departures of key management personnel; • actions by institutional stockholders; • speculation in the press or investment community; • continuing high levels of volatility in the capital and credit markets; and • the realization of any of the other risk factors included in, or incorporated by reference to, this Report on Form 10-K. Many of the factors listed above are beyond our control. These factors may cause the market price of our common stock to decline, regardless of our financial performance and condition and prospects. It is impossible to provide any assurance that the market price of our common stock will not fall in the future, and it may be difficult for holders to resell shares of our common stock at prices they find attractive, or at all. We expect that the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The price of our common stock could also be affected by possible sales of our common stock by investors who view the Preferred Shares as a more attractive means of equity participation in us and by hedging or arbitrage activity that may develop involving our common stock. Our common stock ranks junior to our Preferred Shares. In the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or winding-up, any rights that our common stockholders may have will be junior to the rights of the holders of our Preferred Shares and therefore any outstanding Preferred Shares may reduce the amount available to our common stockholders in the event of any such liquidation event. In the event we are unable to continue as a going concern or otherwise liquidate, the holders of the Preferred Shares will have a liquidation preference equal to the greater of (i) the sum of the stated value, accrued and unpaid dividends of and on such holder’s Preferred Shares and the amount of all future dividends through the maturity date that would have been received in the absence of liquidation; and (ii) an amount that a holder would have received in liquidation had the Preferred Shares been converted immediately prior to the event of liquidation. In such an event, the Preferred Shares may significantly diminish the amounts, if any, available for distribution to holders of our common stock. The market price of our common stock may decline as a result of the W.E.T. Acquisition. The market price of our common stock may decline as a result of our acquisition of W.E.T. if, among other things, we are unable to achieve the expected growth in earnings. The market price of our common stock also 22 Table of Contents may decline if we do not achieve the perceived benefits of the W.E.T. acquisition as rapidly or to the extent anticipated by financial or industry analysts or if the effect of the W.E.T. acquisition on our financial results is not consistent with the expectations of financial or industry analysts. Additional Risks Related to Our Series C Convertible Preferred Stock We may not have sufficient earnings and profits in order for distributions on the Preferred Shares to be treated as dividends. Distributions paid on the Preferred Shares may exceed our current and accumulated earnings and profits, as calculated for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If that occurs, the amount of the distribution that exceeds such earnings and profits will be treated first as a return of capital to the extent of the holder’s adjusted tax basis in the preferred stock, and the excess, if any, over such adjusted tax basis, will generally be treated as capital gain. Such treatment, as opposed to dividend treatment, may be unfavorable for corporate holders and certain other holders. We may not be able to pay amounts due to holders of the Preferred Shares in the event of certain defaults in our payment obligations and in connection with certain other events under the Preferred Shares. Any failure to pay any amounts due to the holders of the Preferred Shares, as well as certain other triggering events, including, without limitation, our failure to timely deliver shares, our suspension of trading, our failure to keep reserved for issuance an adequate number of shares of common stock to cover conversion of the Preferred Shares, and breaches of certain representations, warranties and covenants that are not timely cured, where a cure period is permitted, would permit the holders of our Preferred Shares to compel our redemption of such Preferred Shares in cash at a price per share containing a significant premium to the stated value of the Preferred Shares, plus an additional make-whole amount per Preferred Share being redeemed. If one of the enumerated triggering events occurs, or if for any other reason we are required to redeem the Preferred Shares in cash prior to maturity, no assurance can be given that we would have the cash or financial resources available to us to make such a payment, and such an acceleration could cause us to be in default under or breach our obligations under our credit facility, have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition and may impair our ability to operate our business as a going concern. The Preferred Shares are subordinated to our credit facility. We have incurred substantial indebtedness to finance our acquisition of W.E.T. The Preferred Shares rank junior and are subordinate to this bank indebtedness and certain other liabilities pursuant to, among other things, a subordination agreement entered into between investors in the Preferred Shares and our lender (the “Subordination Agreement”). Pursuant to the terms of the Subordination Agreement and our credit facility, we are not permitted to make, and the holders of our Preferred Shares are not permitted to accept, cash payments on account of the Preferred Shares unless no “Default” or “Event of Default” then exists under the credit facility or would result from the making of the payment and we are in compliance with the “Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio” under the credit facility. There are no comparable restrictions on our ability to pay obligations on the Preferred Shares through issuance of common shares. In the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or winding-up, our assets will only be available to pay obligations on the Preferred Shares, including dividends and amortization amounts, after all of our indebtedness and other liabilities have been paid in full. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 23 Table of Contents 