Item 1A. Risk Factors. We have historically relied on a very limited number of clients that have accounted for a significant portion of our revenues, and our results of operations could be adversely affected if we were to lose one or more of these significant clients. We have historically relied on a very limited number of clients that have accounted for a significant portion of our revenues. Two clients generated approximately 26%, 41% and 30% of the Company’s total revenues in the fiscal years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Another client accounted for 15% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013, but for accounted for less than 10% for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011. One other client accounted for 11% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013 but accounted for less than 10% for the year ended December 31, 2012 and 14% for the year ended December 31, 2011. No other client accounted for 10% or more of total revenues during these periods. Further, in the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, revenues from non-US clients accounted for 35%, 24% and 30%, respectively, of the Company's revenues. We may lose any of these, or our other major clients, as a result of our failure to meet or satisfy our clients’ requirements, the completion or termination of a project or engagement, or the client’s selection of another service provider. In addition, the volume of work performed for our major clients may vary from year to year, and services they require from us may change from year to year. They may also request us to modify certain key terms of our agreements with them as a condition of continuing to do business with us. If the volume of work performed for our major clients varies, or if the services they require from us change, our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected, and we may incur a loss from operations. If certain key terms of our agreements with our major clients are modified, our revenues and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our services are typically subject to client requirements, and in many cases are terminable upon 30 to 90 days’ notice. A significant portion of our services is provided on a non-recurring basis for specific projects, and our inability to replace large projects when they are completed or otherwise terminated has adversely affected, and could in the future adversely affect, our revenues and results of operations. We provide a portion of our services for specific projects that generate revenues that terminate on completion of a defined task. While we seek, wherever possible, on completion or termination of large projects, to counterbalance periodic declines in revenues with new arrangements to provide services to the same client or others, our inability to obtain sufficient new projects to counterbalance any decreases in such work may adversely affect our future revenues and results of operations. The Synodex and docGenix subsidiaries in our IADS segment are early stage companies and have incurred losses to date. We have invested significant amounts in the Synodex and docGenix subsidiaries of our IADS segment. Our total 2013 investment in Synodex and docGenix was $8.3 million, consisting of $7.3 million in operating expenses and $1.0 million in capital expenditures. Our cumulative investment in these subsidiaries as of December 31, 2013 was $24 million, consisting of $17.0 million in operating expenses and $7.0 million in capital expenditures. During 2013, these subsidiaries generated approximately $1.1 million in revenues and incurred a net loss of $11.8 million, net of inter-segment profits. The net loss includes a $5.5 million impairment charge on the fixed assets of our Synodex subsidiary. As of December 31, 2013, we have written off all the fixed assets of IADS. 10 We intend to continue to invest in Synodex and docGenix in the immediate future at the combined rate of $1.5-$2.0 million per quarter. However, we may curtail our continuing investments if our internal resources are insufficient and outside financing is not available on terms we find attractive. These subsidiaries are still subject to the risks and uncertainties of early stage companies, and there can be no assurance that these subsidiaries will be viable. We have no prior experience in selling these IADS services and we are dependent on a small group of skilled personnel. Failure to generate meaningful revenues and margins could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. New acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic investments or partnerships could harm our operating results. We may pursue acquisitions, joint ventures or engage in strategic investments or partnerships to grow and enhance our capabilities. We cannot assure that we will successfully consummate any acquisitions or joint ventures, or profit by strategic investments, or achieve desired financial and operating results. Further, such activities involve a number of risks and challenges, including proper evaluation, diversion of management’s attention and proper integration with our current business. Accordingly, we might fail to realize the expected benefits or strategic objectives of any such venture we undertake. If we are unable to complete the kind of acquisitions for which we plan, we may not be able to achieve our planned rates of growth, profitability or competitive position in specific markets or services. A large portion of our accounts receivable is payable by a limited number of clients; the inability of any of these clients to pay its accounts receivable would adversely affect our results of operations. Several significant clients account for a large percentage of our accounts receivable. If any of these clients were unable, or refused, for any reason, to pay our accounts receivable, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2013, 65% or $7.9 million, of our accounts receivable was due from four clients. See “Liquidity and Capital Resources.” In addition, we evaluate the financial condition of our clients and usually bill and collect on relatively short cycles. We maintain specific allowances against doubtful receivables. Actual losses on client balances could differ from those that we currently anticipate and, as a result, we might need to adjust our allowances. There is no guarantee that we will accurately assess the creditworthiness of our clients. Macroeconomic conditions, such as the continued credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system, could also result in financial difficulties, including limited access to the credit markets, insolvency or bankruptcy, for our clients, and, as a result, could cause clients to delay payments to us, request modifications to their payment arrangements that could increase our receivables balance, or default on their payment obligations to us. If we are unable to collect timely from our clients, our cash flows could be adversely affected. Quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and results of operations could make financial forecasting difficult and could negatively affect our stock price. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, significant fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and results of operations. During the past eight quarters, our net income ranged from a profit of approximately $3.4 million in the first quarter of 2012 to a loss of approximately $11.7 million in the third quarter of 2013. We experience fluctuations in our revenue and earnings as we replace and begin new projects, which may have some normal start-up delays, or we may be unable to replace a project entirely. These and other factors may contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations from quarter to quarter. 11 A high percentage of our operating expenses, particularly personnel and rent, are relatively fixed in advance of any particular quarter. As a result, unanticipated variations in the number and timing of our projects, or in employee wage levels and utilization rates, may cause us to significantly underutilize our production capacity and employees, resulting in significant variations in our operating results in any particular quarter, and have resulted in losses. The economic environment and pricing pressures could negatively impact our revenues and operating results. Due to the intense competition involved in outsourcing and information technology services, we generally face pricing pressures from our clients. Our ability to maintain or increase pricing is restricted as clients generally expect to receive volume discounts or special pricing incentives as we do more business with them; moreover, our large clients may exercise pressure for discounts outside of agreed terms. Our profitability could suffer if we are not able to maintain pricing on our existing projects and win new projects at appropriate margins. Our profit margin, and therefore our profitability, is dependent on the rates we are able to recover for our services. If we are not able to maintain pricing on our existing services and win new projects at profitable margins, our profitability could suffer. The rates we are able to recover for our services are affected by a number of factors, including competition, the value our client derives from our services and general economic and political conditions. If our pricing structures do not accurately anticipate the cost and complexity of performing our work, then our contracts could be unprofitable. We provide services either on a time-and-materials basis or on a fixed-price basis. Our pricing is highly dependent on our internal forecasts and predictions about our projects, which might be based on limited data and could turn out to be inaccurate. If we do not accurately estimate the costs and timing for completing projects, our contracts could prove unprofitable for us or yield lower profit margins than anticipated. Our inability to obtain price increases and improve our efficiency may impact our results of operations. Over the past few years, we have experienced wage inflation in the Asian countries where we have the majority of our operations. In addition, we may experience adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. These global events have put pressure on our profitability and our margins. Although we have tried to partially offset wage increases and foreign currency fluctuations through price increases and improving our efficiency, we cannot ensure that we may be able to continue to do so in the future, which would negatively impact our results of operations. If our clients are not satisfied with our services, they may terminate our contracts with them or our services, which could have an adverse impact on our business. Our business model depends in large part on our ability to attract additional work from our base of existing clients. Our business model also depends on relationships our account teams develop with our clients so that we can understand our clients’ needs and deliver solutions and services that are tailored to those needs. If a client is not satisfied with the quality of work performed by us, or with the type of services or solutions delivered, then we could incur additional costs to address the situation, the profitability of that work might be impaired, and the client’s dissatisfaction with our services could damage our ability to obtain additional work from that client. In particular, clients that are not satisfied might seek to terminate existing contracts, which would mean that we could incur costs for the services performed with no associated revenue upon termination of a contract. This could also direct future business to our competitors. In addition, negative publicity related to our client services or relationships, regardless of its accuracy, may further damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts with current and prospective clients. 12 Our new clients may not generate the level of revenues anticipated for reasons beyond our control. As we get new opportunities and win new business, our new clients may not generate the level of revenues that we initially anticipated at the time of signing a contract with them. This could be due to various reasons beyond our control. We may invest in people or technology and incur other costs in anticipation of revenues, and as such any deviation from our expected plan would impact our margins and earnings. Our business will suffer if we fail to develop new services and enhance our existing services in order to keep pace with the rapidly evolving technological environment or provide new service offerings, which may not succeed. The outsourcing, information technology and consulting services industries are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changing client preferences and new product and service introductions. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop solutions that keep pace with changes in the markets in which we provide services. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in developing new services, addressing evolving technologies on a timely or cost-effective basis or, if these services are developed, that we will be successful in the marketplace. In addition, we cannot guarantee that products, services or technologies developed by others will not render our services non-competitive or obsolete. Our failure to address these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We invest in developing and pursuing new service offerings from time to time. Our profitability could be reduced if these services do not yield the profit margins we expect, or if the new service offerings do not generate the planned revenues. We have made and continue to make significant investments towards building-out new capabilities to pursue growth. These investments increase our costs and if these services do not yield the revenues or profit margins we expect and we are unable to grow our business and revenues proportionately, our profitability may be reduced. We depend on third-party technology in the provision of our services. We rely upon certain software that we license from third parties, including software integrated with our internally developed software used in the provision of our services. These third-party software licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable or competitive terms, if at all. The loss of, or inability to maintain or obtain any of these software licenses, could result in delays in the provision of our services until we develop, identify, license and integrate equivalent software. Any delay in the provision of our services could damage our business and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, for our Synodex and docGenix subsidiaries of our IADS segment, we utilize third party data centers to serve our clients and generate revenues. Any disruption in provision of services from these data centers could result in loss of revenues, client dissatisfaction and loss of clients. We compete in highly competitive markets for our CS segment that have low barriers to entry. The markets for our services are highly competitive and fragmented. Some of our competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, human, technical and other resources and greater name recognition than we do. If we fail to be competitive with these companies in the future, we may lose market share, which could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. 13 There are relatively few barriers preventing companies from competing with us. As a result, new market entrants also pose a threat to our business. We also compete with in-house personnel at current and prospective clients, who may attempt to duplicate our services using their own personnel. We cannot guarantee that our clients will outsource more of their needs to us in the future, or that they will not choose to provide internally the services that they currently obtain from us. If we are not able to compete effectively, our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and if we are unable to protect them or are subject to intellectual property rights claims, our business may be harmed. Our intellectual property rights include certain trademarks and trade secrets, which are important assets for our business. Although we take precautions to protect our intellectual property rights, these efforts may not be sufficient or effective. In addition, various events outside of our control pose a threat to our intellectual property rights as well as to our business. We may fail to attract and retain enough sufficiently trained employees to support our operations, as competition for highly skilled personnel is significant. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The outsourcing industry relies on large numbers of skilled employees. Our success depends to a significant extent on our ability to attract, hire, train and retain qualified employees. Our performance largely depends on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals including our executives and key sales personnel. The outsourcing industry, including our Company, experiences high employee attrition. Increased competition for these professionals, in the outsourcing industry or otherwise, could have an adverse effect on us. A significant increase in the attrition rate among employees with specialized skills could decrease our operating efficiency and productivity. In addition, our ability to maintain and renew existing engagements and obtain new businesses will depend, in large part, on our ability to attract, train and retain personnel with skills that enable us to keep pace with growing demands for outsourcing, evolving industry standards and changing client preferences. Our failure to attract, train and retain personnel with the qualifications necessary to fulfill the needs of our existing and future clients or to assimilate new employees successfully could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Disruptions in telecommunications, system failures, data corruption or virus attacks could harm our ability to execute our global resource model, which could result in client dissatisfaction and a reduction of our revenues. We use a distributed global resource model. Our onshore workforce provides services from our North American and European offices, as well as from client sites; and our offshore workforce provides services from our eight overseas production facilities in the Philippines, India, Sri Lanka and Israel. All our global facilities are linked with a telecommunications network that uses multiple service providers. We may not be able to maintain active voice and data communications between our various facilities and our clients' sites at all times due to disruptions in these networks, system failures, data corruption or virus attacks. Any significant failure in our ability to communicate could result in a disruption in business, which could hinder our performance or our ability to complete client projects on time. This, in turn, could lead to client dissatisfaction and an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. A material breach in security relating to our information systems could adversely affect us. Even though we have implemented network security measures, our servers may be vulnerable to computer viruses, cyber-attacks, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering. The occurrence of any of the events described above could result in interruptions, delays, the loss or corruption of data, cessations in the availability of systems or liability under privacy laws or contracts, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. 14 Governmental and client focus on data security could increase our costs of operations. In addition, any incidents in which we fail to protect our clients' information against security breaches could result in monetary damages against us, termination of our engagement by our client, and may adversely impact our results of operations. Certain laws and regulations regarding data privacy and security affecting our clients impose requirements regarding the privacy and security of information maintained by these clients, as well as notification to persons whose personal information is accessed by an unauthorized third party. As a result of any continuing legislative initiatives and client demands, we may have to modify our operations with the goal of further improving data security. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations is high and is likely to increase in the future. Any such modifications may result in increased expenses and operating complexity, and we may be unable to increase the rates we charge for our services sufficiently to offset these increases. In addition, as part of the service we perform, we have access to confidential client data, including sensitive personal data. As a result, we are subject to numerous U.S. and foreign jurisdiction laws and regulations designed to protect this information, such as the Data Protection Act 1988, Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 as amended (including by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act and various other laws governing the protection of individually identifiable information). We may also be bound by certain client agreements to use and disclose the confidential client information in a manner consistent with the privacy standards under regulations applicable to such client. Any failure on our part to comply with these laws and regulations can result in negative publicity and diversion of management time and effort and may subject us to significant liabilities and other penalties. If client confidential information is inappropriately disclosed due to a breach of our computer systems, system failures or otherwise, or if any person, including any of our employees, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches controls or procedures with which we are responsible for complying with respect to such data or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates that data, we may have substantial liabilities to our clients. Any incidents with respect to the handling of such information could subject us to litigation or indemnification claims with our clients and other parties. In addition, any breach or alleged breach of our confidentiality agreements with our clients may result in termination of their engagements, resulting in associated loss of revenue and increased costs. Our international operations subject us to risks inherent in doing business on an international level, any of which could increase our costs and hinder our growth. The major part of our operations is carried on in the Philippines, India, Sri Lanka and Israel, while our headquarters are in the United States, and our clients are primarily located in North America and Europe. While we do not depend on significant revenues from sources internal to the countries in which we operate, we are nevertheless subject to certain adverse economic factors relating to overseas economies generally, including inflation, external debt, a negative balance of trade and underemployment. Other risks associated with our international business activities include: · difficulties in staffing international projects and managing international operations, including overcoming logistical and communications challenges; · local competition, particularly in the Philippines, India and Sri Lanka; · imposition of public sector controls; · trade and tariff restrictions; · price or exchange controls; 15 · currency control regulations; · foreign tax consequences; · labor disputes and related litigation and liability; · limitations on repatriation of earnings; and · the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations. One or more of these factors could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our international operations subject us to currency exchange fluctuations, which could adversely affect our results of operations. To date, most of our revenues have been denominated in U.S. dollars, while a significant portion of our expenses, primarily labor expenses in the Philippines, India, Sri Lanka and Israel, is incurred in the local currencies of the countries in which we operate. For financial reporting purposes, we translate all non-U.S. denominated transactions into dollars in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. As a result, we are exposed to the risk that fluctuations in the value of these currencies relative to the dollar could increase the dollar cost of our operations and therefore adversely affect our results of operations. The Philippines and India have at times experienced high rates of inflation as well as major fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Philippine peso and the U.S. dollar and the Indian rupee and the U.S. dollar. Continuing inflation and significant fluctuations in the peso and rupee against the dollar could adversely affect our results of operations. There is no guarantee that our financial results will not be adversely affected by currency exchange rate fluctuations or that any efforts by us to engage in foreign currency hedging activities will be effective. Finally, as most of our expenses are incurred in currencies other than those in which we bill for the related services, any increase in the value of certain foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar could increase our operating costs. In the event that the government of India, the Philippines or the government of another country changes its tax policies, rules and regulations, our tax expense may increase and affect our effective tax rates. We are subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. We are subject to the continual examination by tax authorities in India and in the Philippines, and the Company assesses the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for income taxes. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits could be materially different from what is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals, and could result in a material effect on the Company’s income tax provision, net income or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. If additional taxes are assessed, it could have an adverse impact on our financial results. In addition, unanticipated changes in the tax rates, tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws in the jurisdiction where we operate, could affect our future results of operations. 16 Our operating results may be adversely affected by our use of derivative financial instruments. We have entered into a series of foreign currency forward contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges. These contracts are intended to partially offset the impact of the movement of the exchange rates on future operating costs of our Asian subsidiaries. The hedging strategies that we have implemented or may implement to mitigate foreign currency exchange rate risks may not reduce or completely offset our exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations and may expose our business to unexpected market, operational and counterparty credit risks. Accordingly, we may incur losses from our use of derivative financial instruments that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Regulations of the Internal Revenue Service may impose significant U.S. income taxes on our subsidiaries in the Philippines. Our subsidiaries incorporated in the Philippines were domesticated in Delaware as limited liability companies. In August 2004, the Internal Revenue Service promulgated regulations, effective August 12, 2004, that treat certain companies incorporated in foreign jurisdictions and also domesticated as Delaware limited liability companies as U.S. corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We have effected certain filings with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware to ensure that these subsidiaries are no longer domesticated in Delaware. As a result, commencing January 1, 2005, these subsidiaries are no longer treated as U.S. corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes under the regulations, and furthermore, are not subject to U.S. federal income taxes commencing as of such date. In the preamble to such regulations, the IRS expressed its view that dual-registered companies described in the preceding paragraph are also treated as U.S. corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes for periods prior to August 12, 2004. In 2006, the IRS issued its final regulations, stating that neither the temporary regulations nor these final regulations is retroactive. Further, additional guidance was released by the IRS which clarified that the regulations upon which we relied were not binding on pre-existing entities until May 2006. For periods prior to this date (i.e., prior to August 12, 2004) these final regulations apply, and the classification of dually chartered entities is governed by the pre-existing regulations. As such, we believe that our historic treatment of these subsidiaries as not having been required to pay taxes in the United States for the period prior to August 12, 2004 is correct, and we have made no provision for U.S. taxes in our financial statements for these entities for the periods prior to August 12, 2004. However, we cannot guarantee that the Internal Revenue Service will not assert other positions with respect to the foregoing matters, including positions with respect to our treatment of the tax consequences of the termination of the status of our Philippine subsidiaries as Delaware limited liability companies that, if successful, could increase materially our liability for U.S. federal income taxes. If tax authorities in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate contest the manner in which we allocate our profits, our net income could decrease. Substantially all of the services we provide to our clients are provided by our Asian subsidiaries located in different jurisdictions. Tax authorities in some of these jurisdictions have from time to time challenged the manner in which we allocate our profits among our subsidiaries, and we may not prevail in this type of challenge. If such a challenge were successful, our worldwide effective tax rate could increase, thereby decreasing our net income. An expiration or termination of our preferential tax rate incentives could adversely affect our results of operations. Certain foreign subsidiaries are subject to preferential tax rates. In addition, one of our foreign subsidiaries enjoys a tax holiday. These tax incentives provide that we pay reduced income taxes in those jurisdictions for a fixed period of time that varies depending on the jurisdiction. An expiration or termination of these incentives could substantially increase our worldwide effective tax rate, thereby decreasing our net income and adversely affecting our results of operations. 17 Our earnings may be adversely affected if we change our intent not to repatriate earnings in Asia or if such earnings become subject to U.S. tax on a current basis. Unremitted earnings of our foreign subsidiaries have been included in the consolidated financial statements without giving effect to the United States taxes that may be payable on distribution to the United States. Unremitted earnings aggregated $32.4 million at December 31, 2013 and were held by our foreign subsidiaries in cash and cash equivalents. A significant portion of the amounts held outside of the United States could be repatriated to the United States, but under current law would be subject to United States federal income taxes less applicable foreign tax credits should we intend to remit these funds. While as of December 31, 2013 we have no plans to remit the funds, if we change our intent we will have to accrue the applicable amount of taxes associated with such earnings and pay such taxes. These increased taxes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. President Obama’s administration announced a number of tax-related legislative proposals that would, among other things, seek to effectively tax certain profits of U.S. companies earned overseas. Although, several of these proposals were not enacted into law, Congress could consider any of these measures at any time. If enacted into law, and depending on their precise terms, these proposals could increase our tax rate and tax payments, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Anti-outsourcing legislation, if adopted, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and impair our ability to service our clients. The issue of outsourcing of services abroad by U.S. companies is a topic of political discussion in the United States. Measures aimed at limiting or restricting outsourcing by U.S. companies are under discussion in Congress and in numerous state legislatures. While no substantive anti-outsourcing legislation has been introduced to date, given the ongoing debate over this issue, the introduction of such legislation is possible. If introduced, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected and our ability to service our clients could be impaired. Our growth could be hindered by visa restrictions. Occasionally, we have employees from our other facilities visit or transfer to the United States to meet our clients and work on projects at clients sites. Any visa restrictions or new legislation putting a restriction on issuing visas could affect our business. Immigration and visa laws and regulations in the United States and other countries are subject to legislative and administrative changes as well as changes in the application of standards. Immigration and visa laws and regulations can be significantly affected by political forces and levels of economic activity. Our international expansion strategy and our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected if legislative or administrative changes to immigration or visa laws and regulations impair our ability to staff projects with our professionals who are not citizens of the country where the work is to be performed. Political uncertainty, political unrest, terrorism, and natural calamities in the Philippines, India, Sri Lanka and Israel could adversely affect business conditions in those regions, which in turn could disrupt our business and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We conduct the majority of our production operations in the Philippines, India, Sri Lanka and Israel. These countries and regions remain vulnerable to disruptions from political uncertainty, political unrest, terrorist acts, and natural calamities. 18 Any damage to our network and/or information systems would damage our ability to provide service, in whole or in part, and/or otherwise damage our operation and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Further, political tensions and escalation of hostilities in any of these countries could adversely affect our operations in these countries and therefore adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. We have significant amount of cash and cash equivalent and short term investments that are held by our operating foreign subsidiaries located in Asia. Any political uncertainly, unrest, disruption or natural calamities in any of these countries may restrict our access to these assets, which in turn could disrupt our business and financial condition. Terrorist attacks or a war could adversely affect our results of operations. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks of September 11, 2001 in the United States and the attacks in Mumbai, India in November 2008, and other acts of violence or war could affect us or our clients by disrupting normal business practices for extended periods of time and reducing business confidence. In addition, acts of violence or war may make travel more difficult and may effectively curtail our ability to serve our clients' needs, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations. We are the subject of continuing litigation, including litigation by certain of our former employees. In 2008, the Supreme Court of the Republic of the Philippines refused to review a decision of the Court of Appeals in Manila against a Philippines subsidiary of the Company that is inactive and has no material assets, and purportedly also against Innodata Inc. that orders the reinstatement of certain former employees of the subsidiary to their former positions and also orders the payment of back wages and benefits that aggregate approximately $8.0 million. Based on consultation with legal counsel, we believe that recovery against Innodata Inc. is nevertheless unlikely. We are also subject to various other legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business. While we currently believe that the ultimate outcome of these proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or overall trends in results of operations, litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties. Substantial recovery against us in the above-referenced Philippines action could have a material adverse impact on us, and unfavorable rulings or recoveries in the other proceedings could have a material adverse impact on the operating results of the period in which the ruling or recovery occurs. In addition, our estimate of potential impact on our financial position or overall results of operations for the above legal proceedings could change in the future. See “Legal Proceedings.” Our reputation could be damaged or our profitability could suffer if we do not meet the controls and procedures in respect to the services and solutions we provide to our clients, or if we contribute to our clients’ internal control deficiencies. Our clients may perform audits or require us to perform audits, provide audit reports or obtain certifications with respect to the controls and procedures that we use in the performance of services for such clients, especially when we process data or information belonging to them. Our ability to acquire new clients and retain existing clients may be adversely affected and our reputation could be harmed if we receive a qualified opinion, or if we cannot obtain an appropriate certification or opinion with respect to our controls and procedures in connection with any such audit in a timely manner. Additionally, our profitability could suffer if our controls and procedures were to result in internal controls failures or impair our client’s ability to comply with its own internal control requirements. 19 New and changing corporate governance and public disclosure requirements add uncertainty to our compliance policies and increase our costs of compliance. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, other SEC regulations, and the NASDAQ Stock Market rules, are creating uncertainty for companies like ours. These laws, regulations and standards may lack specificity and are subject to varying interpretations. Their application in practice may evolve over time, as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs of compliance as a result of ongoing revisions to such corporate governance standards. Although we are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, and complying with evolving laws, regulations and standards, if we fail to comply with new or changed laws, regulations or standards of corporate governance, our business and reputation may be harmed. It is unlikely that we will pay dividends. We have not paid any cash dividends since our inception and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We expect that our earnings, if any, will be used to finance our growth. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 