Item 1A. Risk Factors. We have historically relied on a very limited number of clients that have accounted for a significant portion of our revenues and our results of operations could be adversely affected if we lose one or more of these significant clients. We have historically relied on a very limited number of clients that have accounted for a significant portion of our revenues. Our top four clients generated approximately 61%, 54% and 53% of our revenues in the fiscal years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We may lose any of these or our other major clients as a result of our failure to meet or satisfy our clients’ requirements, the completion or termination of a project or engagement, or the selection of another service provider. In addition, the volume of work performed for our major clients may vary from year to year and services they require from us may change from year to year. If the volume of work performed for our major clients varies of if the services they require from us change, our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected and we may incur a loss from operations. Our services are typically subject to client requirements, and in most cases are terminable upon 30 to 90 days’ notice. A significant portion of our services is provided on a non-recurring basis for specific projects, and our inability to replace large projects when they are completed has adversely affected, and could in the future adversely affect, our revenues and results of operations. We provide a portion of our services for specific projects that generate revenues that terminate on completion of a defined task and we regard these revenues as non-recurring. Non-recurring revenues derived from these project-based arrangements accounted for approximately 39%, 39% and 42% of our total revenues in the fiscal years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. While we seek wherever possible to counterbalance periodic declines in revenues on completion of large projects with new arrangements to provide services to the same client or others, our inability to obtain sufficient new projects to counterbalance any decreases in such work may adversely affect our future revenues and results of operations. A large portion of our accounts receivable is payable by a limited number of clients; the inability of any of these clients to pay its accounts receivable would adversely affect our results of operations. Several significant clients account for a large percentage of our accounts receivable. As of December 31, 2007, 50% or $5.3 million, of our accounts receivable was due from one client. If any of these clients were unable, or refuse, for any reason, to pay our accounts receivable, our results of operations would be adversely affected. Quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations could make financial forecasting difficult and could negatively affect our stock price. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, significant fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and results of operations. During the past eight quarters, our net income ranged from a loss of approximately $3.0 million to a profit of approximately $2.2 million. 9 Our quarterly operating results are also subject to certain seasonal fluctuations. We generally experience lower revenue in the first quarter as we replace projects that were brought to end in the fourth quarter and we begin new projects, which may have some normal start up delays during the first quarter. These and other seasonal factors may contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations from quarter to quarter. A high percentage of our operating expenses, particularly personnel and rent, are relatively fixed in advance of any particular quarter. As a result, unanticipated variations in the number and timing of our projects or in employee wage levels and utilization rates may cause us to significantly underutilize our production capacity and employees, resulting in significant variations in our operating results in any particular quarter, and could result in losses. We compete in highly competitive markets that have low barriers to entry. The markets for our services are highly competitive and fragmented. We may not be able to compete successfully against our competitors in the future. Some of our competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, human, technical and other resources and greater name recognition than we do. If we fail to be competitive with these companies in the future, we may lose market share, which could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. There are relatively few barriers preventing companies from competing with us. We do not own any patented technology that would preclude or inhibit others from entering our market. As a result, new market entrants also pose a threat to our business. We also compete with in-house personnel at current and prospective clients, who may attempt to duplicate our services using their own personnel. We cannot assure you that our clients will outsource more of their needs to us in the future, or that they will not choose to provide internally the services that they currently obtain from us. If we are not able to compete effectively, our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. We are the subject of continuing litigation, including litigation by certain of our former employees. We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims which arise in the ordinary course of business. In addition, in connection with the cessation of all operations at certain of our foreign subsidiaries, certain former employees have filed various actions against one of our Philippine subsidiaries and have purported also to sue us and certain of our officers and directors. An unfavorable ruling in any of these proceedings could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. See “Legal Proceedings." Our international operations subject us to risks inherent in doing business on an international level, any of which could increase our costs and hinder our growth. The major part of our operations is carried on in the Philippines, India and Sri Lanka, while our headquarters are in the United States and our clients are primarily located in North America and Europe. While we do not depend on revenues from sources internal to the countries in which we operate, we are nevertheless subject to certain adverse economic factors relating to overseas economies generally, including inflation, external debt, a negative balance of trade and underemployment. Other risks associated with our international business activities include: • difficulties in staffing international projects and managing international operations, including overcoming logistical and communications challenges; • local competition, particularly in the Philippines, India and Sri Lanka; • imposition of public sector controls; 10 • trade and tariff restrictions; • price or exchange controls; • currency control regulations; • foreign tax consequences; • labor disputes and related litigation and liability; • limitations on repatriation of earnings; and • the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations. One or more of these factors could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our international operations subject us to currency exchange fluctuations, which could adversely affect our results of operations. To date, most of our revenues have been denominated in U.S. dollars, while a significant portion of our expenses, primarily labor expenses in the Philippines, India and Sri Lanka, is incurred in the local currencies of countries in which we operate. For financial reporting purposes, we translate all non-United States denominated transactions into dollars in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. As a result, we are exposed to the risk that fluctuations in the value of these currencies relative to the dollar could increase the dollar cost of our operations and therefore adversely affect our results of operations. The Philippines has historically experienced high rates of inflation and major fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Philippine peso and the U.S. dollar. Continuing inflation without a corresponding devaluation of the peso against the dollar, or any other increase in the value of the peso relative to the dollar, could adversely affect our results of operations. There is no guarantee that our financial results will not be adversely affected by currency exchange rate fluctuations or that any efforts by us to engage in foreign currency hedging activities would be effective. Finally, as most of our expenses are incurred in currencies other than those in which we bill for the related services and any increase in the value of certain foreign currencies, against the U.S. Dollar could increase our operating costs. New regulation of the Internal Revenue Service may impose significant U.S. income taxes on our subsidiaries in the Philippines. Our subsidiaries incorporated in the Philippines were domesticated in Delaware as limited liability companies. In August 2004, the Internal Revenue Service promulgated regulations, effective August 12, 2004, that treat certain companies incorporated in foreign jurisdictions and also domesticated as Delaware limited liability companies as U.S. corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We have effected certain filings with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware to ensure that these subsidiaries are no longer domesticated in Delaware. As a result, commencing January 1, 2005, these subsidiaries are not treated as U.S. corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes under the regulations and are not subject to U.S. federal income taxes commencing as of such date. In the preamble to such regulations, the I.R.S. expressed its view that dual registered companies described in the preceding sentence are also treated as U.S. corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes for periods prior to August 12, 2004. In 2006, the IRS issued its final regulations, stating that neither the temporary regulations nor these final regulations are retroactive. Further, additional guidance was released by the IRS which clarified that the regulations upon which we relied were not binding on pre-existing entities until May 2006. For periods prior to this date these final regulations apply (i.e., prior to August 12, 2004) and the classification of dually chartered entities is governed by the pre-existing regulations. As such, we believe that our historic treatment of these subsidiaries as not having been required to pay taxes in the United States for the period prior to August 12, 2004 is correct, and we have made no provision for U.S. taxes in its financial statements for these entities for the periods prior to August 12, 2004. 11 However, we cannot assure you that the Internal Revenue Service will not assert other positions with respect to the foregoing matters, including positions with respect to our treatment of the tax consequences of the termination of the status of our Philippine subsidiaries as Delaware limited liability companies that, if successful, could increase materially our liability for U.S. federal income taxes. If certain tax authorities in North America and Europe challenge the manner in which we allocate our profits, our net income will decrease. Substantially all of the services provided by our Asian subsidiaries are performed on behalf of clients based in North America and Europe. We believe that profits from our Asian operations are not sufficiently connected to jurisdictions in North America or Europe to give rise to income taxation in those jurisdictions. Tax authorities in any of our jurisdictions could, however, challenge the manner in which we allocate our profits among our subsidiaries, and we may not prevail in this type of challenge. If such a challenge were successful, our worldwide effective tax rate could increase, thereby decreasing our net income. An expiration or termination of our current tax holidays could adversely affect our results of operations. We currently benefit from income tax holiday incentives in the Philippines, India and Sri Lanka which provide that we pay reduced income taxes in those jurisdictions for a fixed period of time that varies depending on the jurisdiction. An expiration or termination of our current tax holidays could substantially increase our worldwide effective tax rate, thereby decreasing our net income and adversely affecting our results of operations. The income tax holiday of one of our Philippine subsidiaries will expire in May 2008. Regional instability in the Philippines, India and Sri Lanka could adversely affect business conditions in those regions, which could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We conduct a majority of our operations in the Philippines, India and Sri Lanka. These operations remain vulnerable to political unrest. Political instability could adversely affect the legal environment for our business activities in those regions. In particular, the Philippines have experienced ongoing problems with insurgents. The Abu Sayyaf group of kidnappers, which is purported to have ties to the Al Qaeda terrorist organization, is concentrated on Basilan Island. While Basilan Island is not near our facilities and the government of the Philippines has taken action to eradicate this group, we cannot assure you that these efforts will be successful or that the Abu Sayyaf group will not attempt to disrupt activities or commit terrorist acts in other areas of the Philippines or South Asia. While the threat of military confrontation between India and Pakistan in Kashmir has receded, political uncertainty in Pakistan may have spill over effects to its relationship with India. Further, the government of Sri Lanka has terminated the Norwegian-brokered ceasefire with its rebels and there are concerns that hostilities may escalate. 12 Further political tensions and an escalation in these hostilities could adversely affect our operations based in India, the Philippines and Sri Lanka and therefore adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Terrorist attacks or a war could adversely affect our results of operations. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks of September 11, 2001 in the United States, and other acts of violence or war, such as the conflict in Iraq, could affect us or our clients by disrupting normal business practices for extended periods of time and reducing business confidence. In addition, these attacks may make travel more difficult and may effectively curtail our ability to serve our clients' needs, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations. It is unlikely that we will pay dividends. We have not paid any cash dividends since our inception and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We expect that our earnings, if any, will be used to finance our growth. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None Item 