Risk Factors – Competition within our industry may adversely affect our operations.” The availability of a ready market for and the price of any hydrocarbons produced will depend on many factors beyond our control, including but not limited to the amount of domestic production and imports of foreign oil and liquefied natural gas, the marketing of competitive fuels, the proximity and capacity of oil and natural gas pipelines, the availability of transportation and other market facilities, the demand for hydrocarbons, the effect of federal and state regulation of allowable rates of production, taxation and the conduct of drilling operations, and federal regulation of oil and natural gas. In addition, the restructuring of the natural gas pipeline industry eliminated the gas purchasing activity of traditional interstate gas transmission pipeline buyers. Producers of natural gas have therefore been required to develop new markets among gas marketing companies, end users of natural gas and local distribution companies. All of these factors, together with economic factors in the marketing arena, generally may affect the supply of and/or demand for oil and natural gas and thus the prices available for sales of oil and natural gas. Regulation Our oil and gas operations are subject to various U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations. Various aspects of our oil and natural gas operations are regulated by administrative agencies under statutory provisions of the states where such operations are conducted and by certain agencies of the federal government for operations on federal leases. All of the jurisdictions in which we own or operate producing oil and natural gas properties have statutory provisions regulating the exploration for and production of oil and natural gas, including provisions requiring permits for the drilling of wells and maintaining bonding requirements in order to drill or operate wells, and provisions relating to the location of wells, the method of drilling and casing wells, the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled, and the abandonment of wells. Our operations are also subject to various conservation laws and regulations. These include the regulation of the size of drilling and spacing units or proration units and the number of wells that may be drilled in an area and the unitization or pooling of oil and natural gas properties. In this regard, some states can order the pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate exploration while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases. In addition, state conservation laws establish maximum rates of production from oil and natural gas wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of natural gas, and impose certain requirements regarding the ratability or fair apportionment of production from fields and individual wells. Certain operations that we conduct are on federal oil and gas leases, which are administered by the Bureau of Land Management (the “BLM”) and the Minerals Management Service (the “MMS”). These leases contain relatively standardized terms and require compliance with detailed BLM and MMS regulations and orders pursuant to the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (the “OCSLA”) (which are subject to change by the MMS). Many onshore leases contain stipulations limiting activities that may be conducted on the lease. Some stipulations are unique to particular geographic areas and may limit the times during which activities on the lease may be conducted, the manner in which certain activities may be conducted or, in some cases, may ban any surface activity. For offshore operations, lessees must obtain MMS approval for exploration, development and production plans prior to the commencement of such operations. In addition to permits required from other agencies (such as the Environmental Protection Agency), lessees must obtain a permit from the BLM or the MMS, as applicable, prior to the commencement of drilling, and comply with regulations governing, among other things, engineering and construction specifications for production facilities, safety procedures, plugging and abandonment of wells on the Outer Continental Shelf (the “OCS”) of the GOM, calculation of royalty payments and the valuation of production for this purpose, and removal of facilities. To cover the various obligations of lessees on the OCS, the MMS generally requires that lessees post substantial bonds or other acceptable assurances that such obligations will be met, unless the MMS exempts the lessee from such obligations. The cost of such bonds or other surety can be substantial, and we can provide no assurance that we can continue to obtain bonds or other surety in all cases. Under certain circumstances, the BLM or MMS, as applicable, may require our operations on federal leases to be suspended or terminated. Any such suspension or termination could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operations. In August, 2005, Congress enacted the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (“EPAct 2005”). Among other matters, EPAct 2005 amends the Natural Gas Act (“NGA”) to make it unlawful for “any entity”, including otherwise non-jurisdictional producers such as Stone Energy, to use any deceptive or manipulative device or contrivance in connection with the purchase or sale of natural gas or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”), in contravention of rules prescribed by the FERC. On January 20, 2006, the FERC issued rules implementing this provision. The rules make it unlawful in connection with the purchase or sale of natural gas subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC, or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC, for any entity, directly or indirectly, to use or employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud; to make any untrue statement of material fact or omit to make any such statement necessary to make the statements made not misleading; or to engage in any act or practice that operates as a fraud or deceit upon any person. EPAct 2005 also gives the FERC 6 Table of Contents authority to impose civil penalties for violations of the NGA up to $1,000,000 per day per violation. The new anti-manipulation rule does not apply to activities that relate only to intrastate or other non-jurisdictional sales or gathering, but does apply to activities of otherwise non-jurisdictional entities to the extent the activities are conducted “in connection with” gas sales, purchases or transportation subject to FERC jurisdiction. It therefore reflects a significant expansion of the FERC’s enforcement authority. Stone Energy does not anticipate it will be affected any differently than other producers of natural gas. Additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the oil and gas industry are regularly considered by Congress, states, the FERC and the courts. We cannot predict when or whether any such proposals may become effective. In the past, the natural gas industry has been heavily regulated. We can give no assurance that the regulatory approach currently pursued by the FERC will continue indefinitely. We do not anticipate, however, that compliance with existing federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations will have a material or significantly adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or competitive position. No portion of our business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts or subcontracts at the election of the federal government. Environmental Regulation As a lessee and operator of onshore and offshore oil and gas properties in the United States, we are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection as well as controlling the manner in which various substances, including wastes generated in connection with oil and gas industry operations, are released into the environment. Compliance with these laws and regulations can affect the location or size of wells and facilities, limit or prohibit the extent to which exploration and development may be allowed, and require proper closure of wells and restoration of properties that are being abandoned. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil or criminal penalties, imposition of remedial obligations, incurrence of capital costs to comply with governmental standards, and even injunctions that limit or prohibit exploration and production operations or the disposal of substances generated in connection with oil and gas industry operation. We currently operate or lease, and have in the past operated or leased, a number of properties that for many years have been used for the exploration and production of oil and gas. Although we have utilized operating and disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, hydrocarbons or other wastes may have been disposed of or released on or under the properties operated or leased by us or on or under other locations where such wastes have been taken for disposal. In addition, many of these properties have been operated by third parties whose treatment and disposal or release of hydrocarbons or other wastes was not under our control. These properties and the wastes disposed thereon may be subject to laws and regulations imposing joint and several, strict liability without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct that could require us to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes or property contamination, or to perform remedial plugging or pit closure to prevent future contamination. We believe that it is reasonably likely that the trend in environmental legislation and regulation will continue toward stricter standards. We have made, and will continue to make, expenditures in efforts to comply with environmental laws and regulations. While we believe that we are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations in effect and that continued compliance with existing requirements will not have a material adverse impact on us, we cannot give any assurance that we will not be adversely affected in the future. We have established internal guidelines to be followed in order to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the United States. We employ a safety department whose responsibilities include providing assurance that our operations are carried out in accordance with applicable environmental guidelines and safety precautions. Although we maintain pollution insurance against the costs of cleanup operations, public liability and physical damage, there is no assurance that such insurance will be adequate to cover all such costs or that such insurance will continue to be available in the future. To date we believe that compliance with existing requirements of such governmental bodies has not had a material effect on our operations. Employees On March 1, 2006, we had 271 full time employees. We believe that our relationships with our employees are satisfactory. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Under our supervision, we utilize the services of independent contractors to perform various daily operational duties. 7 Table of Contents Forward-Looking Statements The information in this Form 10-K includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements, other than statements of historical or current facts, that address activities, events, outcomes and other matters that we plan, expect, intend, assume, believe, budget, predict, forecast, project, estimate or anticipate (and other similar expressions) will, should or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on management’s current belief, based on currently available information, as to the outcome and timing of future events. When considering forward-looking statements, you should keep in mind the risk factors and other cautionary statements in this Form 10-K. Forward-looking statements appear in a number of places and include statements with respect to, among other things: • any expected results or benefits associated with our acquisitions; • estimates of our future oil and natural gas production, including estimates of any increases in oil and gas production; • planned capital expenditures and the availability of capital resources to fund capital expenditures; • our outlook on oil and gas prices; • estimates of our oil and gas reserves; • any estimates of future earnings growth; • the impact of political and regulatory developments; • our outlook on the resolution of pending litigation and government inquiry; • estimates of the impact of new accounting pronouncements on earnings in future periods; • our future financial condition or results of operations and our future revenues and expenses; and • our business strategy and other plans and objectives for future operations. We caution you that these forward-looking statements are subject to all of the risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, incident to the exploration for and development, production and marketing of oil and natural gas. These risks include, but are not limited to, commodity price volatility, third party interruption of sales to market, inflation, lack of availability of goods and services, environmental risks, drilling and other operating risks, hurricanes and other weather conditions, regulatory changes, the uncertainty inherent in estimating proved oil and natural gas reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing of development expenditures and the other risks described in this Form 10-K. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact way. The accuracy of any reserve estimate depends on the quality of available data and the interpretation of that data by geological engineers. In addition, the results of drilling, testing and production activities may justify revisions of estimates that were made previously. If significant, these revisions would change the schedule of any further production and development drilling. Accordingly, reserve estimates are generally different from the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered. Should one or more of the risks or uncertainties described above or elsewhere in this Form 10-K occur, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, our actual results and plans could differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. We specifically disclaim all responsibility to publicly update any information contained in a forward-looking statement or any forward-looking statement in its entirety and therefore disclaim any resulting liability for potentially related damages. All forward-looking statements attributable to us are expressly qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement. 8 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a number of risks including, but not limited to, those described below: Oil and gas price declines and volatility could adversely affect our revenues, cash flows and profitability. Our revenues, profitability and future rate of growth depend substantially upon the market prices of oil and natural gas, which fluctuate widely. Factors that can cause this fluctuation include: • relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; • market uncertainty; • the level of consumer product demands; • hurricanes and other weather conditions; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • political and economic conditions in oil producing countries, particularly those in the Middle East; • the foreign supply of oil and natural gas; • the price of oil and gas imports; and • overall domestic and foreign economic conditions. We cannot predict future oil and natural gas prices. At various times, excess domestic and imported supplies have depressed oil and gas prices. Declines in oil and natural gas prices may adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Lower prices may reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically and may also create ceiling test write-downs of our oil and gas properties. Substantially all of our oil and natural gas sales are made in the spot market or pursuant to contracts based on spot market prices, not long-term fixed price contracts. In an attempt to reduce our price risk, we periodically enter into hedging transactions with respect to a portion of our expected future production. We cannot assure you that such transactions will reduce the risk or minimize the effect of any decline in oil or natural gas prices. Any substantial or extended decline in the prices of or demand for oil or natural gas would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to replace production with new reserves. In general, the volume of production from oil and gas properties declines as reserves are depleted. The decline rates depend on reservoir characteristics. Gulf of Mexico reservoirs tend to be recovered quickly through production with associated steep declines, while declines in other regions after initial flush production tend to be relatively low. During 2005, 89% of our production and 76% of our estimated proved reserves were derived from Gulf of Mexico reservoirs, while the remaining portions of our production and reserves were derived from the Rocky Mountain Region. Our reserves will decline as they are produced unless we acquire properties with proved reserves or conduct successful development and exploration drilling activities. Our future natural gas and oil production is highly dependent upon our level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves. We have identified a material weakness in our internal controls relating to the estimation of proved reserves. This Form 10-K contains estimates of our proved oil and gas reserves and the estimated future net cash flows from such reserves. These estimates are based upon various assumptions, including assumptions required by the SEC relating to oil and gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. This process requires significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir and is therefore inherently imprecise. Additionally, our interpretations of the rules governing the estimation of proved reserves could differ from the interpretation of staff members of regulatory authorities resulting in estimates that could be challenged by these authorities. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves will most likely vary from those estimated. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves set forth in this document and the information incorporated by reference. Our properties may also be susceptible to hydrocarbon drainage from production by other operators on adjacent properties. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. 9 Table of Contents As articulated in “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures” on page 31, management has identified a material weakness in internal controls that did not prevent the overstatement of our proved oil and gas reserves in prior periods. As of the date of this report, we have not completely mitigated the causes of this weakness because we have not had an adequate passage of time to monitor the progress of our continuing training programs. We may not be able to fund our planned capital expenditures. We spend and will continue to spend a substantial amount of capital for the acquisition, exploration, exploitation, development and production of oil and gas reserves. Our capital expenditures, including acquisitions and exclusive of estimated asset retirement costs, were $479.8 million during 2005, $501.2 million during 2004 and $361.9 million during 2003. We have budgeted total capital expenditures in 2006, excluding property acquisitions, asset retirement costs and capitalized salaries, general and administrative costs and interest, to be approximately $360 million. If low oil and natural gas prices, operating difficulties or other factors, many of which are beyond our control, cause our revenues and cash flows from operating activities to decrease, we may be limited in our ability to fund the capital necessary to complete our capital expenditures program. In addition, if our borrowing base under our credit facility is re-determined to a lower amount, this could adversely affect our ability to fund our planned capital expenditures. After utilizing our available sources of financing, we may be forced to raise additional debt or equity proceeds to fund such capital expenditures. We cannot assure you that additional debt or equity financing will be available or cash flows provided by operations will be sufficient to meet these requirements. Our debt level and the covenants in the agreements governing our debt could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. As of March 1, 2006, we had $563 million in outstanding indebtedness. We have a borrowing base under our bank credit facility of $300 million with availability of an additional $114 million of borrowings as of March 1, 2006. Our borrowing base was reduced from $425 million to $300 million after we announced our reserve revision in October 2005. The terms of the agreements governing our debt impose significant restrictions on our ability to take a number of actions that we may otherwise desire to take, including: • incurring additional debt; • paying dividends on stock, redeeming stock or redeeming subordinated debt; • making investments; • creating liens on our assets; • selling assets; • guaranteeing other indebtedness; • entering into agreements that restrict dividends from our subsidiary to us; • merging, consolidating or transferring all or substantially all of our assets; and • entering into transactions with affiliates. Our level of indebtedness, and the covenants contained in the agreements governing our debt, could have important consequences on our operations, including: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under the indentures or other debt and increasing the risk that we may default on our debt obligations; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operating activities to required payments on debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for working capital, capital expenditures and other general business activities; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general business activities; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • detracting from our ability to successfully withstand a downturn in our business or the economy generally; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage against other less leveraged competitors; and • making us vulnerable to increases in interest rates, because debt under our credit facility is at variable rates. We may be required to repay all or a portion of our debt on an accelerated basis in certain circumstances. If we fail to comply with the covenants and other restrictions in the agreements governing our debt, it could lead to an event of default and the acceleration of our repayment of outstanding debt. Our ability to comply with these covenants and other restrictions may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic and financial conditions. Our borrowing base under the credit facility, which is re-determined periodically, is based on an amount established by the bank group after its evaluation of our proved oil and gas reserve values. Upon a re-determination, if borrowings in excess of the revised borrowing capacity were outstanding, we could be forced to repay a portion of our bank debt. 10 Table of Contents We may not have sufficient funds to make such repayments. If we are unable to repay our debt out of cash on hand, we could attempt to refinance such debt, sell assets or repay such debt with the proceeds from an equity offering. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities to pay the interest on our debt or that future borrowings, equity financings or proceeds from the sale of assets will be available to pay or refinance such debt. The terms of our debt, including our credit facility and our indentures, may also prohibit us from taking such actions. Factors that will affect our ability to raise cash through an offering of our capital stock, a refinancing of our debt or a sale of assets include financial market conditions and our market value and operating performance at the time of such offering or other financing. We cannot assure you that any such offering, refinancing or sale of assets can be successfully completed. We have experienced significant shut-ins and losses of production in 2004 and 2005 due to the effects of hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico. Approximately 76% of our estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2005 and 89% of our production during 2005 were associated with our Gulf Coast Basin properties. Accordingly, if the level of production from these properties substantially declines, it could have a material adverse effect on our overall production level and our revenue. We are particularly vulnerable to significant risk from hurricanes and tropical storms. During 2004, we experienced an approximate 7.0 Bcfe deferral of production due to Hurricane Ivan. During 2005, we experienced an approximate 16.4 Bcfe deferral of production resulting from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. We are unable to predict what impact future hurricanes and tropical storms might have on our future results of operations and production. The marketability of our production depends mostly upon the availability, proximity and capacity of oil and natural gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities. The marketability of our production depends upon the availability, proximity, operation and capacity of oil and natural gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities. The unavailability or lack of capacity of these systems and facilities could result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. Federal, state and local regulation of oil and gas production and transportation, general economic conditions and changes in supply and demand could adversely affect our ability to produce and market our oil and natural gas. If market factors changed dramatically, the financial impact on us could be substantial. The availability of markets and the volatility of product prices are beyond our control and represent a significant risk. We may not receive payment for a portion of our future production. We may not receive payment for a portion of our future production. We have attempted to diversify our sales and obtain credit protections such as parental guarantees from certain of our purchasers. We are unable to predict, however, what impact the financial difficulties of certain purchasers may have on our future results of operations and liquidity. Lower oil and gas prices may cause us to record ceiling test write-downs. We use the full cost method of accounting for our oil and gas operations. Accordingly, we capitalize the cost to acquire, explore for and develop oil and gas properties. Under the full cost method of accounting, we compare, at the end of each financial reporting period, the present value of estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves (based on period-end hedge adjusted commodity prices and excluding cash flows related to estimated abandonment costs), net of related tax effect, to the net capitalized costs of proved oil and gas properties, including estimated capitalized abandonment costs, net of related deferred taxes. We refer to this comparison as a “ceiling test.” If the net capitalized costs of proved oil and gas properties exceed the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves, we are required to write-down the value of our oil and gas properties to the value of the discounted cash flows. This charge does not impact cash flow from operating activities, but does reduce net income. The risk that we will be required to write down the carrying value of oil and gas properties increases when oil and natural gas prices are low or volatile. In addition, write-downs may occur if we experience substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. We cannot assure you that we will not experience ceiling test write-downs in the future. We may not be able to obtain adequate financing to execute our operating strategy. We have historically addressed our short and long-term liquidity needs through the use of bank credit facilities, the issuance of debt and equity securities and the use of cash flow provided by operating activities. We continue to examine the following alternative sources of capital: • bank borrowings or the issuance of debt securities; • the issuance of common stock, preferred stock or other equity securities; • joint venture financing; and • production payments. 11 Table of Contents The availability of these sources of capital will depend upon a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include general economic and financial market conditions, oil and natural gas prices and our market value and operating performance. We may be unable to fully execute our operating strategy if we cannot obtain capital from these sources. There are uncertainties in successfully integrating our acquisitions. Integrating acquired businesses and properties involves a number of special risks. These risks include the possibility that management may be distracted from regular business concerns by the need to integrate operations and that unforeseen difficulties can arise in integrating operations and systems and in retaining and assimilating employees. Any of these or other similar risks could lead to potential adverse short-term or long-term effects on our operating results. Our operations are subject to numerous risks of oil and gas drilling and production activities. Oil and gas drilling and production activities are subject to numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or natural gas reservoirs will be found. The cost of drilling and completing wells is often uncertain. Oil and gas drilling and production activities may be shortened, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • unexpected drilling conditions; • pressure or irregularities in formations; • equipment failures or accidents; • hurricanes and other weather conditions; • shortages in experienced labor; and • shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment. The prevailing prices of oil and natural gas also affect the cost of and the demand for drilling rigs, production equipment and related services. We cannot assure you that the new wells we drill will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment. Drilling for oil and natural gas may be unprofitable. Drilling activities can result in dry wells and wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net revenue after operating and other costs to recoup drilling costs. Our industry experiences numerous operating risks. The exploration, development and production of oil and gas properties involves a variety of operating risks including the risk of fire, explosions, blowouts, pipe failure, abnormally pressured formations and environmental hazards. Environmental hazards include oil spills, gas leaks, pipeline ruptures or discharges of toxic gases. If any of these industry-operating risks occur, we could have substantial losses. Substantial losses may be caused by injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution or other environmental damage, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties and suspension of operations. Additionally, our offshore operations are subject to the additional hazards of marine operations, such as capsizing, collision and adverse weather and sea conditions. In accordance with industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of the risks described above. We have begun to explore for natural gas and oil in the deep waters of the GOM (water depths greater than 2,000 feet) where operations are more difficult than in shallower waters. Our deep water drilling and operations require the application of recently developed technologies that involve a higher risk of mechanical failure. The deep waters of the GOM often lack the physical infrastructure and availability of services present in the shallower waters. As a result, deep water operations may require a significant amount of time between a discovery and the time that we can market the oil and gas, increasing the risks involved with these operations. We maintain insurance of various types to cover our operations, including maritime employer’s liability and comprehensive general liability. Coverage amounts are provided by primary and excess umbrella liability policies. In addition, we maintain operator’s extra expense insurance, which provides coverage for the care, custody and control of wells drilled and/or completed plus re-drill and pollution coverage. The exact amount of coverage for each well is dependent upon its depth and location. We experienced Gulf of Mexico production interruption in 2004 from Hurricane Ivan and in 2005 from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita for which we do not have any loss of production insurance. We cannot assure you that our insurance will be adequate to cover losses or liabilities. Also, we cannot predict the continued availability of insurance at premium levels that justify its purchase. No assurance can be given that we will be able to maintain insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable. The occurrence of a significant event, not fully insured or indemnified against, could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and operations. 12 Table of Contents Terrorist attacks aimed at our facilities could adversely affect our business. The U.S. government has issued warnings that U.S. energy assets may be the future targets of terrorist organizations. These developments have subjected our operations to increased risks. Any future terrorist attack at our facilities, or those of our purchasers, could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and operations. Competition within our industry may adversely affect our operations. Competition in the Gulf Coast Basin and the Rocky Mountain Region is intense, particularly with respect to the acquisition of producing properties and undeveloped acreage. We compete with major oil and gas companies and other independent producers of varying sizes, all of which are engaged in the acquisition of properties and the exploration and development of such properties. Many of our competitors have financial resources and exploration and development budgets that are substantially greater than ours, which may adversely affect our ability to compete. Our oil and gas operations are subject to various U.S. federal, state and local governmental regulations that materially affect our operations. Our oil and gas operations are subject to various U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations. These laws and regulations may be changed in response to economic or political conditions. Regulated matters include: permits for exploration, development and production operations; limitations on our drilling activities in environmentally sensitive areas, such as wetlands and restrictions on the way we can release materials into the environment; bonds or other financial responsibility requirements to cover drilling contingencies and well plugging and abandonment costs; reports concerning operations, the spacing of wells and unitization and pooling of properties; and taxation. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations can result in the assessment of administrative, civil, or criminal penalties, the issuance of remedial obligations, and the imposition of injunctions limiting or prohibiting certain of our operations. At various times, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on oil and gas production. In order to conserve supplies of oil and gas, these agencies have restricted the rates of flow of oil and gas wells below actual production capacity. In addition, the OPA requires operators of offshore facilities such as us to prove that they have the financial capability to respond to costs that may be incurred in connection with potential oil spills. Under OPA and other federal and state environmental statutes like CERCLA and RCRA, owners and operators of certain defined onshore and offshore facilities are strictly liable for spills of oil and other regulated substances, subject to certain limitations. Consequently, a substantial spill from one of our facilities subject to laws such as OPA, CERCLA and RCRA could require the expenditure of additional, and potentially significant, amounts of capital, or could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. Federal, state and local laws regulate production, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of oil and gas, by-products from oil and gas and other substances, and materials produced or used in connection with oil and gas operations. We cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their impact on our earnings, operations or competitive position. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to operate. Our operations are dependent upon a relatively small group of key management and technical personnel. We cannot assure you that individuals will remain with us for the immediate or foreseeable future. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of these individuals could have an adverse effect on us. Hedging transactions may limit our potential gains or become ineffective. In order to manage our exposure to price risks in the marketing of our oil and natural gas, we periodically enter into oil and gas price hedging arrangements with respect to a portion of our expected production. Our hedging policy provides that, without prior approval of our board of directors, generally not more than 50% of our estimated production quantities may be hedged. These arrangements may include futures contracts on the New York Mercantile Exchange (“NYMEX”). While intended to reduce the effects of volatile oil and gas prices, such transactions, depending on the hedging instrument used, may limit our potential gains if oil and gas prices were to rise substantially over the price established by the hedge. In addition, such transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: • our production is less than expected or is shut-in for extended periods due to hurricanes or other factors; • there is a widening of price differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery point assumed in the hedge arrangement; • the counterparties to our futures contracts fail to perform the contracts; • a sudden, unexpected event materially impacts oil or natural gas prices; or • we are unable to market our production in a manner contemplated when entering into the hedge contract. 13 Table of Contents Ownership of working interests, net profits interests and overriding royalty interests in certain of our properties by certain affiliates may create conflicts of interest. James H. Stone, our chairman of the board of directors, owns up to 7.5% of the working interest in certain wells drilled on Section 19 of the east flank of the Weeks Island Field. This interest was acquired prior to our initial public offering in 1993. In his capacity as a working interest owner, he is required to pay a proportional share of all costs and is entitled to receive a proportional share of revenue. D. Peter Canty, a former director and our former President and Chief Executive Officer, and James H. Prince, our former Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, were granted net profits interests in some of Stone’s oil and gas properties acquired prior to our initial public offering in 1993. In addition, Michael E. Madden, our Vice President of Reserves, was granted an overriding royalty interest in some of Stone’s properties by an independent third party. At the time he was granted this interest, Mr. Madden was serving Stone as an independent engineering consultant. The recipients of net profits and overriding royalty interests are not required to pay capital costs incurred on the properties burdened by such interests. As a result of these transactions, a conflict of interest may exist between us and such former directors and present and former officers with respect to the drilling of additional wells or other development operations. We do not pay dividends. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and have no intention to do so in the near future. The restrictions on our present or future ability to pay dividends are included in the provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law and in certain restrictive provisions in the indenture executed in connection with our 81/4% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2011 and 63/4% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014. In addition, we have entered into a credit facility that contains provisions that may have the effect of limiting or prohibiting the payment of dividends. Our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws have provisions that discourage corporate takeovers and could prevent stockholders from realizing a premium on their investment. Certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws and shareholders’ rights plan and the provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may encourage persons considering unsolicited tender offers or other unilateral takeover proposals to negotiate with our board of directors rather than pursue non-negotiated takeover attempts. Our Bylaws provide for a classified board of directors, who are elected by plurality voting. Also, our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and to set the rights, preferences and other designations, including voting rights of those shares, as the board may determine. Additional provisions include restrictions on business combinations and the availability of authorized but unissued common stock. These provisions, alone or in combination with each other and with the rights plan described below, may discourage transactions involving actual or potential changes of control, including transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices to stockholders for their common stock. Our board of directors recently considered a policy to elect directors by majority vote, but a decision was made to continue with plurality voting at this time. During 1998, our board of directors adopted a shareholder rights agreement, pursuant to which uncertificated stock purchase rights were distributed to our stockholders at a rate of one right for each share of common stock held of record as of October 26, 1998. The rights plan is designed to enhance the board’s ability to prevent an acquirer from depriving stockholders of the long-term value of their investment and to protect stockholders against attempts to acquire us by means of unfair or abusive takeover tactics. However, the existence of the rights plan may impede a takeover not supported by our board, including a takeover that may be desired by a majority of our stockholders or involving a premium over the prevailing stock price. This shareholder rights agreement expires on September 30, 2008. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 