ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a number of risks including, but not limited to, those described below: BP’s Deepwater Horizon explosion and ensuing oil spill could have broad adverse consequences affecting our operations in the Gulf of Mexico, some of which may be unforeseeable. In April 2010, there was a fire and explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon drilling platform operated by BP in ultra deep water in the Gulf of Mexico. As a result of the explosion, ensuing fire and apparent failure of the blowout preventers, the rig sank and created a catastrophic oil spill that produced widespread economic, environmental and natural resource damage in the Gulf Coast region. In response to the explosion and spill, there have been many proposals by governmental and private constituencies to address the direct impact of the disaster and to prevent similar disasters in the future. Beginning in May 2010, the BOEMRE issued a series of notices to lessees and operators implementing a six-month moratorium on drilling activities in federal offshore waters and imposing a variety of new safety measures and permitting requirements. In addition to the drilling restrictions, new safety measures and permitting requirements already issued by the BOEMRE, there have been numerous additional proposed changes in laws, regulations, guidance and policy in response to the Deepwater Horizon explosion and oil spill that could affect our operations and cause us to incur substantial losses or expenditures. Implementation of any one or more of the various proposed responses to the disaster could materially adversely affect operations in the Gulf of Mexico by raising operating costs, increasing insurance premiums, delaying drilling operations and increasing regulatory costs, and, further, could lead to a wide variety of other unforeseeable consequences that make operations in the Gulf of Mexico more difficult, more time consuming, and more costly. For example, OPA currently requires a minimum financial responsibility demonstration of $35 million for companies operating on the OCS, although the Secretary of Interior may increase this amount up to $150 million in certain situations. If we are unable to provide the level of financial assurance required by OPA, we may be forced to sell our properties or operations located on the OCS or enter into partnerships with other companies that can meet the increased financial responsibility requirement, and any such developments could have an adverse effect on the value of our offshore assets and the results of our operations. We cannot predict at this time whether OPA will be amended or whether the level of financial responsibility required for companies operating on the OCS will be increased. New regulatory requirements and permitting procedures recently imposed by the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement could significantly delay our ability to obtain permits to drill new wells in offshore waters. Subsequent to the BP Deepwater Horizon incident in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, the BOEMRE issued a series of “Notice to Lessees” (“NTLs”) imposing new regulatory requirements and permitting procedures for new wells to be drilled in federal waters of the OCS. These new regulatory requirements include the following: • The Environmental NTL, which imposes new and more stringent requirements for documenting the environmental impacts potentially associated with the drilling of a new offshore well and significantly increases oil spill response requirements. • The Compliance and Review NTL, which imposes requirements for operators to secure independent reviews of well design, construction and flow intervention processes, and also requires certifications of compliance from senior corporate officers. • The Drilling Safety Rule, which prescribes tighter cementing and casing practices, imposes standards for the use of drilling fluids to maintain well bore integrity, and stiffens oversight requirements relating to blowout preventers and their components, including shear and pipe rams. • The Workplace Safety Rule, which requires operators to have a comprehensive safety and environmental management system in order to reduce human and organizational errors as root causes of work-related accidents and offshore spills. Since the adoption of these new regulatory requirements, BOEMRE has been taking much longer to review and approve permits for new wells. Due to the extremely slow pace of permit review and approval, various industry sources have determined that BOEMRE may take six months or longer to approve applications for drilling permits that were previously approved in less than 30 days. The new rules also increase the cost of preparing each permit application and will increase the cost of each new well, particularly for wells drilled in deeper waters on the OCS. 9 Table of Contents Oil and natural gas prices are volatile. Declines in commodity prices have adversely affected, and in the future may adversely affect, our financial condition and results of operations, cash flows, access to the capital markets, and ability to grow. Our revenues, cash flows, profitability and future rate of growth substantially depend upon the market prices of oil and natural gas. Prices affect our cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to access funds under our bank credit facility and through the capital markets. The amount available for borrowing under our bank credit facility is subject to a borrowing base, which is determined by our lenders taking into account our estimated proved reserves and is subject to periodic redeterminations based on pricing models determined by the lenders at such time. If commodity prices decline in the future, the decline could have adverse effects on our reserves and borrowing base. The prices we receive for our oil and natural gas depend upon factors beyond our control, including among others: • changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; • market uncertainty; • the level of consumer product demands; • hurricanes and other weather conditions; • domestic governmental regulations and taxes; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • political and economic conditions in oil producing countries, particularly those in the Middle East, Russia, South America and Africa; • actions by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”); • the foreign supply of oil and natural gas; • the price of oil and gas imports; and • overall domestic and foreign economic conditions. These factors make it very difficult to predict future commodity price movements with any certainty. Substantially all of our oil and natural gas sales are made in the spot market or pursuant to contracts based on spot market prices and are not long-term fixed price contracts. Further, oil prices and natural gas prices do not necessarily fluctuate in direct relation to each other. We may not be able to replace production with new reserves. In general, the volume of production from oil and gas properties declines as reserves are depleted. The decline rates depend on reservoir characteristics. Gulf of Mexico reservoirs tend to be recovered quickly through production with associated steep declines, while declines in other regions after initial flush production tend to be relatively low. Approximately 83% of our estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2010 and 99.5% of our production during 2010 were associated with our Gulf Coast Basin properties. Our reserves will decline as they are produced unless we acquire properties with proved reserves or conduct successful development and exploration drilling activities. Our future natural gas and oil production is highly dependent upon our level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves at a unit cost that is sustainable at prevailing commodity prices. Exploring for, developing, or acquiring reserves is capital intensive and uncertain. We may not be able to economically find, develop, or acquire additional reserves, or may not be able to make the necessary capital investments if our cash flows from operations decline or external sources of capital become limited or unavailable. We cannot assure you that our future exploitation, exploration, development, and acquisition activities will result in additional proved reserves or that we will be able to drill productive wells at acceptable costs. Our actual recovery of reserves may substantially differ from our proved reserve estimates. This Form 10-K contains estimates of our proved oil and gas reserves and the estimated future net cash flows from such reserves. These estimates are based upon various assumptions, including assumptions required by the SEC relating to oil and gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. This process requires significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir and is therefore inherently imprecise. Additionally, our interpretations of the rules governing the estimation of proved reserves could differ from the interpretation of staff members of regulatory authorities resulting in estimates that could be challenged by these authorities. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves will most likely vary from those estimated. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves set forth in this document and the information incorporated by reference. Our properties may also be susceptible to hydrocarbon drainage from production by other operators on adjacent 10 Table of Contents properties. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. You should not assume that any present value of future net cash flows from our producing reserves contained in this Form 10-K represents the market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. We base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves at December 31, 2010 on average 12-month prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. Further, actual future net revenues will be affected by factors such as the amount and timing of actual development expenditures, the rate and timing of production, and changes in governmental regulations or taxes. At December 31, 2010, approximately 31% of our estimated proved reserves (by volume) were undeveloped. Recovery of undeveloped reserves generally requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. Our reserve estimates include the assumption that we will make significant capital expenditures to develop these undeveloped reserves and the actual costs, development schedule, and results associated with these properties may not be as estimated. In addition, the 10% discount factor that we use to calculate the net present value of future net revenues and cash flows may not necessarily be the most appropriate discount factor based on our cost of capital in effect from time to time and the risks associated with our business and the oil and gas industry in general. We require substantial capital expenditures to conduct our operations and replace our production, and we may be unable to obtain needed financing on satisfactory terms necessary to fund our planned capital expenditures. We spend and will continue to spend a substantial amount of capital for the acquisition, exploration, exploitation, development and production of oil and gas reserves. If low oil and natural gas prices, operating difficulties or other factors, many of which are beyond our control, cause our revenues and cash flows from operating activities to decrease, we may be limited in our ability to fund the capital necessary to complete our capital expenditures program. In addition, if our borrowing base under our credit facility is redetermined to a lower amount, this could adversely affect our ability to fund our planned capital expenditures. After utilizing our available sources of financing, we may be forced to raise additional debt or equity proceeds to fund such capital expenditures. We cannot assure you that additional debt or equity financing will be available or cash flows provided by operations will be sufficient to meet these requirements. Our estimates of future asset retirement obligations may vary significantly from period to period and are especially significant because our operations are almost exclusively in the Gulf of Mexico. We are required to record a liability for the discounted present value of our asset retirement obligations to plug and abandon inactive, non-producing wells, to remove inactive or damaged platforms, facilities and equipment, and to restore the land or seabed at the end of oil and natural gas production operations. These costs are typically considerably more expensive for offshore operations as compared to most land-based operations due to increased regulatory scrutiny and the logistical issues associated with working in waters of various depths. Estimating future restoration and removal costs in the GOM is especially difficult because most of the removal obligations may be many years in the future, regulatory requirements are subject to change or more restrictive interpretation, and asset removal technologies are constantly evolving, which may result in additional or increased costs. As a result, we may make significant increases or decreases to our estimated asset retirement obligations in future periods. For example, because we operate in the GOM, platforms, facilities and equipment are subject to damage or destruction as a result of hurricanes. The estimated cost to plug and abandon a well or dismantle a platform can change dramatically if the host platform from which the work was anticipated to be performed is damaged or toppled rather than structurally intact. Accordingly, our estimate of future asset retirement obligations could differ dramatically from what we may ultimately incur as a result of damage from a hurricane. In addition, the BOEMRE recently issued a NTL dated to be effective October 15, 2010 that establishes a more stringent regimen for the timely decommissioning of what is known as “idle iron” — wells, platforms and pipelines that are no longer producing or serving exploration or support functions related to an operator’s lease — in the GOM. Historically, many oil and natural gas producers in the GOM have delayed the plugging, abandoning or removal of such idle iron until they met the final decommissioning regulatory requirement, which has been established as being within one year after the lease expires or terminates, a time period that sometimes is years after use of the idle iron has been discontinued. The determination of productive lease termination dates are generally based on management’s estimate as to when it would become likely that production, including from future development activities, would cease on the lease. The recently issued NTL, however, sets forth more stringent standards for decommissioning timing requirements — any well that has not been used during the past five years for exploration or production on active leases and is no longer capable of producing in paying quantities must be permanently plugged or temporarily abandoned within three years. Plugging or abandonment of wells may be delayed by two years if all of the well’s hydrocarbon and sulphur zones are appropriately isolated. Similarly, platforms or other facilities that are no longer useful for operations must be removed within five years of the cessation of operations. Triggering of these plugging, abandonment and removal activities under what may be viewed as an accelerated schedule in comparison to historical decommissioning efforts may serve to increase, perhaps materially, our future plugging, abandonment and removal costs, which may translate into a need to increase our estimate of future asset retirement obligations required to meet such increased costs. In addition, the potential increase in decommissioning activity in the GOM over the next few years as a result of the NTL could likely result in increased demand for salvage contractors and equipment, resulting in increased estimates of plugging, abandonment and removal costs and increases in related asset retirement 11 Table of Contents obligations. For additional information about our asset retirement obligations, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Known Trends and Uncertainties — Asset Retirement Obligations.” A financial crisis may impact our business and financial condition. A financial crisis may adversely impact our ability to obtain funding under our current bank credit facility or in the capital markets. The credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial systems had an impact on our business and our financial condition. An economic crisis could reduce the demand for oil and natural gas and put downward pressure on the prices for oil and natural gas. Historically, we have used our cash flow from operations and borrowings under our bank credit facility to fund our capital expenditures and have relied on the capital markets and asset monetization transactions to provide us with additional capital for large or exceptional transactions. In the future, we may not be able to access adequate funding under our bank credit facility as a result of (i) a decrease in our borrowing base due to the outcome of a borrowing base redetermination, or (ii) an unwillingness or inability on the part of our lending counterparties to meet their funding obligations. In addition, we may face limitations on our ability to access the debt and equity capital markets and complete asset sales, an increased counterparty credit risk on our derivatives contracts and the requirement by contractual counterparties of us to post collateral guaranteeing performance. Our debt level and the covenants in the current and any future agreements governing our debt could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. The terms of the current agreements governing our debt impose significant restrictions on our ability to take a number of actions that we may otherwise desire to take, including: • incurring additional debt; • paying dividends on stock, redeeming stock or redeeming subordinated debt; • making investments; • creating liens on our assets; • selling assets; • guaranteeing other indebtedness; • entering into agreements that restrict dividends from our subsidiary to us; • merging, consolidating or transferring all or substantially all of our assets; and • entering into transactions with affiliates. Our level of indebtedness, and the covenants contained in current and future agreements governing our debt, could have important consequences on our operations, including: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under the indentures or other debt and increasing the risk that we may default on our debt obligations; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operating activities to required payments on debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for working capital, capital expenditures and other general business activities; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general business activities; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • detracting from our ability to successfully withstand a downturn in our business or the economy generally; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage against other less leveraged competitors; and • making us vulnerable to increases in interest rates, because debt under our credit facility is at variable rates. We may be required to repay all or a portion of our debt on an accelerated basis in certain circumstances. If we fail to comply with the covenants and other restrictions in the agreements governing our debt, it could lead to an event of default and the acceleration of our repayment of outstanding debt. Our ability to comply with these covenants and other restrictions may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic and financial conditions. Our borrowing base under our bank credit facility, which is redetermined semi-annually, is based on an amount established by the bank group after its evaluation of our proved oil and gas reserve values. Our borrowing base is scheduled to be redetermined by May 2011. Upon a redetermination, if borrowings in excess of the revised borrowing capacity were outstanding, we could be forced to repay a portion of our bank debt. We may not have sufficient funds to make such repayments. If we are unable to repay our debt out of cash on hand, we could attempt to refinance such debt, sell assets or repay such debt with the proceeds from an equity offering. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities to pay the interest on our debt or that future borrowings, equity financings or proceeds from the sale of assets will be available to pay or refinance such debt. The terms of our debt, including our credit facility and our indentures, may also prohibit us from taking such actions. Factors that will affect our ability to raise cash through an offering of our capital stock, a refinancing of our debt or a sale of assets include financial market conditions 12 Table of Contents and our market value and operating performance at the time of such offering, refinancing or sale of assets. We cannot assure you that any such offering, refinancing or sale of assets can be successfully completed. We have experienced significant shut-ins and losses of production due to the effects of hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico. Approximately 83% of our estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2010 and 99.5% of our production during 2010 were associated with our Gulf Coast Basin properties. Accordingly, if the level of production from these properties substantially declines, it could have a material adverse effect on our overall production level and our revenue. We are particularly vulnerable to significant risk from hurricanes and tropical storms in the Gulf of Mexico. During 2009 and 2008, we experienced production deferrals due to Hurricanes Gustav and Ike. During 2007, 2006 and 2005, we experienced production deferrals due to Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, and during 2004, we experienced production deferrals due to Hurricane Ivan. We are unable to predict what impact future hurricanes and tropical storms might have on our future results of operations and production. The marketability of our production depends mostly upon the availability, proximity and capacity of oil and natural gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities. The marketability of our production depends upon the availability, proximity, operation and capacity of oil and natural gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities. The unavailability or lack of capacity of these systems and facilities could result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. Federal, state and local regulation of oil and gas production and transportation, general economic conditions and changes in supply and demand could adversely affect our ability to produce and market our oil and natural gas. If market factors changed dramatically, the financial impact on us could be substantial. The availability of markets and the volatility of product prices are beyond our control and represent a significant risk. We may not receive payment for a portion of our future production. We may not receive payment for a portion of our future production. We have attempted to diversify our sales and obtain credit protections such as parental guarantees from certain of our purchasers. The tightening of credit in the financial markets may make it more difficult for customers to obtain financing and, depending on the degree to which this occurs, there may be a material increase in the nonpayment and nonperformance by customers. We are unable to predict, however, what impact the financial difficulties of certain purchasers may have on our future results of operations and liquidity. Lower oil and gas prices and other factors have resulted, and in the future may result, in ceiling test write-downs and other impairments of our asset carrying values. We use the full cost method of accounting for our oil and gas operations. Accordingly, we capitalize the cost to acquire, explore for and develop oil and gas properties. Under the full cost method of accounting, we compare, at the end of each financial reporting period for each cost center, the present value of estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves (based on a 12-month average hedge adjusted commodity price and excluding cash flows related to estimated abandonment costs), to the net capitalized costs of proved oil and gas properties, net of related deferred taxes. We refer to this comparison as a “ceiling test.” If the net capitalized costs of proved oil and gas properties exceed the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves, we are required to write-down the value of our oil and gas properties to the value of the estimated discounted future net cash flows. A write-down of oil and gas properties does not impact cash flow from operating activities, but does reduce net income. We also assess the carrying amount of goodwill when events occur that may indicate an impairment exists. These events include, for example, a significant decline in oil and gas prices or a decline in our market capitalization. We recorded an impairment of all our goodwill of approximately $466 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The risk that we will be required to write down the carrying value of oil and gas properties and goodwill increases when oil and natural gas prices are low or volatile. In addition, write-downs may occur if we experience substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves or our undeveloped property values, or if estimated future development costs increase. For example, oil and natural gas prices declined significantly throughout the second half of 2008 and into 2009. We recorded a non-cash ceiling test impairment of approximately $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2008 and approximately $509.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Volatility in commodity prices, poor conditions in the global economic markets and other factors could cause us to record additional write-downs of our oil and natural gas properties and other assets in the future and incur additional charges against future earnings. There are uncertainties in successfully integrating our acquisitions. Integrating acquired businesses and properties involves a number of special risks. These risks include the possibility that management may be distracted from regular business concerns by the need to integrate operations and that unforeseen difficulties can arise in integrating operations and systems and in retaining and assimilating employees. Any of these or other similar risks could lead to potential adverse short-term or long-term effects on our operating results. 13 Table of Contents Part of our strategy includes drilling in new or emerging plays. As a result, our drilling in these areas is subject to greater risk and uncertainty. We have made initial investments in acreage and wells in Appalachia and in the Rocky Mountain region. These activities are more uncertain than drilling in areas that are developed and have established production. Our operations in Appalachia and in the Rocky Mountain region are still in the early stages. Because emerging plays and new formations have limited or no production history, we are less able to use past drilling results to help predict future results. The lack of historical information may result in not being able to fully execute our expected drilling programs in these areas or the return on investment in these areas may turn out not to be as attractive as anticipated. We cannot assure you that our future drilling activities in these emerging plays will be successful, or if successful will achieve the resource potential levels that we currently anticipate based on the drilling activities that have been completed or achieve the anticipated economic returns based on our current cost models. Our operations are subject to numerous risks of oil and gas drilling and production activities. Oil and gas drilling and production activities are subject to numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or natural gas reserves will be found. The cost of drilling and completing wells is often uncertain. Oil and gas drilling and production activities may be shortened, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • unexpected drilling conditions; • pressure or irregularities in formations; • equipment failures or accidents; • hurricanes and other weather conditions; • shortages in experienced labor; and • shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment. The prevailing prices of oil and natural gas also affect the cost of and the demand for drilling rigs, production equipment and related services. We cannot assure you that the new wells we drill will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment. Drilling for oil and natural gas may be unprofitable. Drilling activities can result in dry wells and wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net revenue after operating and other costs to recoup drilling costs. Our industry experiences numerous operating risks. The exploration, development and production of oil and gas properties involves a variety of operating risks including the risk of fire, explosions, blowouts, pipe failure, abnormally pressured formations and environmental hazards. Environmental hazards include oil spills, gas leaks, pipeline ruptures or discharges of toxic gases. Additionally, our offshore operations are subject to the additional hazards of marine operations, such as capsizing, collision and adverse weather and sea conditions, including the effects of hurricanes. We have begun to explore for natural gas and oil in the deep waters of the GOM (water depths greater than 2,000 feet) where operations are more difficult and more expensive than in shallower waters. Our deep water drilling and operations require the application of recently developed technologies that involve a higher risk of mechanical failure. The deep waters of the GOM often lack the physical infrastructure and availability of services present in the shallower waters. As a result, deep water operations may require a significant amount of time between a discovery and the time that we can market the oil and gas, increasing the risks involved with these operations. If any of these industry-operating risks occur, we could have substantial losses. Substantial losses may be caused by injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution or other environmental damage, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties and suspension of operations. We may not be insured against all of the operating risks to which our business in exposed. In accordance with industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of the operating risks to which our business is exposed. We insure some, but not all, of our properties from operational and hurricane related events. We currently have insurance policies that include coverage for general liability, physical damage to our oil and gas properties, operational control of wells, oil pollution, third party liability, workers’ compensation and employers’ liability and other coverage. Our insurance coverage includes deductibles that must be met prior to recovery, as well as sub-limits and/or self-insurance. Additionally, our insurance is subject to exclusions and limitations, and there is no assurance that such coverage will adequately protect us against liability from all potential consequences and damages and losses. 14 Table of Contents Currently, we have general liability insurance coverage with an annual aggregate limit of up to $75 million applicable to our working interest. We also have an offshore property physical damage policy that contains a $75 million annual aggregate named windstorm limit. Our operational control of well coverage provides limits that vary by well location and depth and range from a combined single limit of $10 million to $150 million per occurrence. Exploratory deep water wells have a coverage limit of $300 million per occurrence. Additionally, we maintain $35 million in oil pollution liability coverage. Our control of well and oil pollution liability policy limits are scaled proportionately to our working interests, and all of our policies described above are subject to deductibles, sub-limits and/or self-insurance. Under our service agreements, including drilling contracts, generally we are indemnified for injuries and death of the service provider’s employees as well as contractors and subcontractors hired by the service provider. An operational or hurricane related event may cause damage or liability in excess of our coverage, which might severely impact our financial position. We may be liable for damages from an event relating to a project in which we are a non-operator, but have a working interest in such project. Such an event may also cause a significant interruption to our business, which might also severely impact our financial position. For example, we experienced production interruptions in 2005, 2006 and 2007 from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita and in 2008 and 2009 from Hurricanes Gustav and Ike for which we had no production interruption insurance. We reevaluate the purchase of insurance, policy limits and terms annually each May. In light of the recent catastrophic accident in the GOM, we may not be able to secure similar coverage for the same costs. Future insurance coverage for our industry could increase in cost and may include higher deductibles or retentions. In addition, some forms of insurance may become unavailable in the future or unavailable on terms that we believe are economically acceptable. No assurance can be given that we will be able to maintain insurance in the future at rates that we consider reasonable and we may elect to maintain minimal or no insurance coverage. We may not be able to secure additional insurance or bonding that might be required by new governmental regulations. This may cause us to restrict our operations in the GOM, which might severely impact our financial position. The occurrence of a significant event, not fully insured against, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Terrorist attacks aimed at our facilities could adversely affect our business. The U.S. government has issued warnings that U.S. energy assets may be the future targets of terrorist organizations. These developments have subjected our operations to increased risks. Any future terrorist attack at our facilities, or those of our purchasers, could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and operations. Competition within our industry may adversely affect our operations. Competition in the Gulf Coast Basin, the Appalachia region and the Rocky Mountain region is intense, particularly with respect to the acquisition of producing properties and undeveloped acreage. We compete with major oil and gas companies and other independent producers of varying sizes, all of which are engaged in the acquisition of properties and the exploration and development of such properties. Many of our competitors have financial resources and exploration and development budgets that are substantially greater than ours, which may adversely affect our ability to compete. Our oil and gas operations are subject to various U.S. federal, state and local governmental regulations that materially affect our operations. Our oil and gas operations are subject to various U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations. These laws and regulations may be changed in response to economic or political conditions. Regulated matters include: permits for exploration, development and production operations; limitations on our drilling activities in environmentally sensitive areas, such as wetlands and restrictions on the way we can release materials into the environment; bonds or other financial responsibility requirements to cover drilling contingencies and well plugging and abandonment costs; reports concerning operations, the spacing of wells and unitization and pooling of properties; and taxation. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations can result in the assessment of administrative, civil, or criminal penalties, the issuance of remedial obligations, and the imposition of injunctions limiting or prohibiting certain of our operations. At various times, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on oil and gas production. In order to conserve supplies of oil and gas, these agencies have restricted the rates of flow of oil and gas wells below actual production capacity. In addition, the OPA requires operators of offshore facilities such as us to prove that they have the financial capability to respond to costs that may be incurred in connection with potential oil spills. Under OPA and other federal and state environmental statutes like the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (“CERCLA”) and Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”), owners and operators of certain defined onshore and offshore facilities are strictly liable for spills of oil and other regulated substances, subject to certain limitations. Consequently, a substantial spill from one of our facilities subject to laws such as OPA, CERCLA and RCRA could require the expenditure of additional, and potentially significant, amounts of capital, or could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. Federal, state and local laws regulate production, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of oil and gas, by-products from oil and gas and other substances, and materials produced or used in connection with oil and gas operations. We cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their impact on our earnings, operations or competitive position. 15 Table of Contents The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to operate. Our operations are dependent upon key management and technical personnel. We cannot assure you that individuals will remain with us for the immediate or foreseeable future. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of these individuals could have an adverse effect on us. Hedging transactions may limit our potential gains or become ineffective. In order to manage our exposure to price risks in the marketing of our oil and natural gas, we periodically enter into oil and gas price hedging arrangements with respect to a portion of our expected production. Our hedging policy provides that, without prior approval of our board of directors, generally not more than 50% of our estimated production quantities may be hedged. These arrangements may include futures contracts on the New York Mercantile Exchange (“NYMEX”). While intended to reduce the effects of volatile oil and gas prices, such transactions, depending on the hedging instrument used, may limit our potential gains if oil and gas prices were to rise substantially over the price established by the hedge. In addition, such transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: • our production is less than expected or is shut-in for extended periods due to hurricanes or other factors; • there is a widening of price differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery point assumed in the hedge arrangement; • the counterparties to our futures contracts fail to perform the contracts; • a sudden, unexpected event materially impacts oil or natural gas prices; or • we are unable to market our production in a manner contemplated when entering into the hedge contract. Currently, some of our outstanding commodity derivative instruments are with certain lenders or affiliates of the lenders under our bank credit facility. Our existing derivative agreements with our lenders are secured by the security documents executed by the parties under our bank credit facility. Future collateral requirements for our commodity hedging activities are uncertain and will depend on the arrangements we negotiate with the counterparty and the volatility of oil and natural gas prices and market conditions. Our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws have provisions that discourage corporate takeovers and could prevent stockholders from realizing a premium on their investment. Certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws and the provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may encourage persons considering unsolicited tender offers or other unilateral takeover proposals to negotiate with our board of directors rather than pursue non-negotiated takeover attempts. Our board of directors are elected by plurality voting. Also, our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and to set the rights, preferences and other designations, including voting rights of those shares, as the board may determine. Additional provisions include restrictions on business combinations and the availability of authorized but unissued common stock. These provisions, alone or in combination with each other, may discourage transactions involving actual or potential changes of control, including transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices to stockholders for their common stock. Resolution of litigation could materially affect our financial position and results of operations. We have been named as a defendant in certain lawsuits (See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings”). In some of these suits, our liability for potential loss upon resolution may be mitigated by insurance coverage. To the extent that potential exposure to liability is not covered by insurance or insurance coverage is inadequate, we could incur losses that could be material to our financial position or results of operations in future periods. Certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. Legislation has been proposed that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to U.S. federal income tax laws, including the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. These changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties; (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs; (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain U.S. production activities; and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether these or similar changes will be enacted and, if enacted, how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of this legislation or any other similar changes in U.S. Federal income tax laws could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development, and any such change could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common stock. 16 Table of Contents Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the crude oil and natural gas that we produce. In December 2009, the EPA determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other “greenhouse gases” present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on these findings, the EPA has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the CAA. The EPA recently adopted two sets of rules regulating greenhouse gas emissions under the CAA, one of which requires a reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases from motor vehicles and the other of which regulates emissions of greenhouse gases from certain large stationary sources, effective January 2, 2011. The EPA’s rules relating to emissions of greenhouse gases from large stationary sources of emissions are currently subject to a number of legal challenges, but the federal courts have thus far declined to issue any injunctions to prevent the EPA from implementing, or requiring state environmental agencies to implement, the rules. The EPA has also adopted rules requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources in the United States, including petroleum refineries, on an annual basis, beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring after January 1, 2010, as well as certain onshore oil and natural gas production facilities, on an annual basis, beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. In addition, the United States Congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and almost one-half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases primarily through the planned development of greenhouse gas emission inventories and/or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and gas processing plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances. The number of allowances available for purchase is reduced each year in an effort to achieve the overall greenhouse gas emission reduction goal. The adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. Any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the oil and natural gas we produce. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the Earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climatic events. If any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The recent adoption of derivatives legislation by the United States Congress could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business. The United States Congress adopted comprehensive financial reform legislation that establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as us, that participate in that market. The new legislation, known as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Act”), was signed into law by the President on July 21, 2010 and requires the CFTC and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation within 360 days from the date of enactment. In its rulemaking, the CFTC has proposed regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. Certain bona fide hedging transactions or positions would be exempt from these position limits. It is not possible to predict when the CFTC will finalize these regulations. The financial reform legislation may also require us to comply with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements in connection with our derivative activities, although the application of those provisions to us is uncertain at this time. The financial reform legislation may also require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. The new legislation and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks that we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the legislation was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material, adverse effect on us, our financial condition, and our results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could make it more difficult or costly for us to perform fracturing of producing formations and could have an adverse effect on our ability to produce oil and gas from new wells. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons, particularly natural gas, from tight formations. We routinely use hydraulic fracturing techniques in many of our natural gas wells drilling and completion programs. The process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into the formation to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. The process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions. However, the EPA, recently asserted federal regulatory authority over hydraulic fracturing involving diesel additives under the Safe Drinking Water Act’s Underground Injection Control Program. While the EPA has yet to take any action to enforce or implement this newly asserted regulatory authority, industry groups have filed suit challenging the EPA’s recent decision. At the same time, the EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing activities, and a committee of the U.S. House of Representatives is also conducting an investigation of hydraulic fracturing practices. Legislation has been introduced before Congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the fracturing process. In addition, some states have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. For example, Pennsylvania, Colorado, and Wyoming have each adopted a variety of well construction, set back, and disclosure regulations limiting how fracturing can be performed and requiring various degrees of chemical disclosure. If new laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such laws could make it more difficult or costly for us to perform fracturing to stimulate production from tight formations. In addition, if hydraulic fracturing becomes regulated at the federal level as a result of federal legislation or regulatory initiatives by the EPA, our fracturing activities could become subject to additional permitting requirements, and also to attendant permitting delays and potential increases in costs. Restrictions on hydraulic fracturing could also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we are ultimately able to produce from our reserves. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 