ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a number of risks including, but not limited to, those described below: Oil and natural gas prices are volatile. Declines in commodity prices have adversely affected, and in the future may adversely affect, our financial condition and results of operations, cash flows, access to the capital markets, and ability to grow. Our revenues, cash flows, profitability and future rate of growth substantially depend upon the market prices of oil and natural gas. Prices affect our cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to access funds under our bank credit facility and through the capital markets. The amount available for borrowing under our bank credit facility is subject to a borrowing base, which is determined by our lenders taking into account our estimated proved reserves and is subject to periodic redeterminations based on pricing models determined by the lenders at such time. The decline in oil and natural gas prices in 2009 has impacted the value of our estimated proved reserves and, in turn, the market values used by our lenders to determine our borrowing base. If commodity prices decline in the future, the decline could have adverse effects on our reserves and borrowing base. The prices we receive for our oil and natural gas depend upon factors beyond our control, including among others: • changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; • market uncertainty; • the level of consumer product demands; • hurricanes and other weather conditions; • domestic governmental regulations and taxes; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • political and economic conditions in oil producing countries, particularly those in the Middle East, Russia, South America and Africa; • actions by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”); • the foreign supply of oil and natural gas; • the price of oil and gas imports; and • overall domestic and foreign economic conditions. These factors make it very difficult to predict future commodity price movements with any certainty. Substantially all of our oil and natural gas sales are made in the spot market or pursuant to contracts based on spot market prices and are not long-term fixed price contracts. Further, oil prices and natural gas prices do not necessarily fluctuate in direct relation to each other. 8 Table of Contents We may not be able to replace production with new reserves. In general, the volume of production from oil and gas properties declines as reserves are depleted. The decline rates depend on reservoir characteristics. Gulf of Mexico reservoirs tend to be recovered quickly through production with associated steep declines, while declines in other regions after initial flush production tend to be relatively low. Approximately 99.6% of our estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2009 and 100% of our production during 2009 were associated with our Gulf Coast Basin properties. Our reserves will decline as they are produced unless we acquire properties with proved reserves or conduct successful development and exploration drilling activities. Our future natural gas and oil production is highly dependent upon our level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves at a unit cost that is sustainable at prevailing commodity prices. Exploring for, developing, or acquiring reserves is capital intensive and uncertain. We may not be able to economically find, develop, or acquire additional reserves, or may not be able to make the necessary capital investments if our cash flows from operations decline or external sources of capital become limited or unavailable. We cannot assure you that our future exploitation, exploration, development, and acquisition activities will result in additional proved reserves or that we will be able to drill productive wells at acceptable costs. Further, the current economic crisis has adversely impacted our ability to obtain financing to fund acquisitions and has lowered the level of activity and depressed values in the oil and natural gas property sales market. Our actual recovery of reserves may substantially differ from our proved reserve estimates. This Form 10-K contains estimates of our proved oil and gas reserves and the estimated future net cash flows from such reserves. These estimates are based upon various assumptions, including assumptions required by the SEC relating to oil and gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. This process requires significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir and is therefore inherently imprecise. Additionally, our interpretations of the rules governing the estimation of proved reserves could differ from the interpretation of staff members of regulatory authorities resulting in estimates that could be challenged by these authorities. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves will most likely vary from those estimated. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves set forth in this document and the information incorporated by reference. Our properties may also be susceptible to hydrocarbon drainage from production by other operators on adjacent properties. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. You should not assume that any present value of future net cash flows from our producing reserves contained in this Form 10-K represents the market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. We base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves at December 31, 2009 on average 12-month prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. Further, actual future net revenues will be affected by factors such as the amount and timing of actual development expenditures, the rate and timing of production, and changes in governmental regulations or taxes. At December 31, 2009, approximately 22% of our estimated proved reserves (by volume) were undeveloped. Recovery of undeveloped reserves generally requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. Our reserve estimates include the assumption that we will make significant capital expenditures to develop these undeveloped reserves and the actual costs, development schedule, and results associated with these properties may not be as estimated. In addition, the 10% discount factor that we use to calculate the net present value of future net revenues and cash flows may not necessarily be the most appropriate discount factor based on our cost of capital in effect from time to time and the risks associated with our business and the oil and gas industry in general. We require substantial capital expenditures to conduct our operations and replace our production, and we may be unable to obtain needed financing on satisfactory terms necessary to fund our planned capital expenditures. We spend and will continue to spend a substantial amount of capital for the acquisition, exploration, exploitation, development and production of oil and gas reserves. If low oil and natural gas prices, operating difficulties or other factors, many of which are beyond our control, cause our revenues and cash flows from operating activities to decrease, we may be limited in our ability to fund the capital necessary to complete our capital expenditures program. In addition, if our borrowing base under our credit facility is redetermined to a lower amount, this could adversely affect our ability to fund our planned capital expenditures. After utilizing our available sources of financing, we may be forced to raise additional debt or equity proceeds to fund such capital expenditures. We cannot assure you that additional debt or equity financing will be available or cash flows provided by operations will be sufficient to meet these requirements. 9 Table of Contents A financial crisis may impact our business and financial condition. A financial crisis may adversely impact our ability to obtain funding under our current bank credit facility or in the capital markets. The credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial systems have had an impact on our business and our financial condition. An economic crisis could reduce the demand for oil and natural gas and put downward pressure on the prices for oil and natural gas. Historically, we have used our cash flow from operations and borrowings under our bank credit facility to fund our capital expenditures and have relied on the capital markets and asset monetization transactions to provide us with additional capital for large or exceptional transactions. In the future, we may not be able to access adequate funding under our bank credit facility as a result of (i) a decrease in our borrowing base due to the outcome of a borrowing base redetermination, or (ii) an unwillingness or inability on the part of our lending counterparties to meet their funding obligations. In addition, we may face limitations on our ability to access the debt and equity capital markets and complete asset sales, an increased counterparty credit risk on our derivatives contracts and the requirement by contractual counterparties of us to post collateral guaranteeing performance. Our debt level and the covenants in the current and any future agreements governing our debt could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. The terms of the current agreements governing our debt impose significant restrictions on our ability to take a number of actions that we may otherwise desire to take, including: • incurring additional debt; • paying dividends on stock, redeeming stock or redeeming subordinated debt; • making investments; • creating liens on our assets; • selling assets; • guaranteeing other indebtedness; • entering into agreements that restrict dividends from our subsidiary to us; • merging, consolidating or transferring all or substantially all of our assets; and • entering into transactions with affiliates. Our level of indebtedness, and the covenants contained in current and future agreements governing our debt, could have important consequences on our operations, including: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under the indentures or other debt and increasing the risk that we may default on our debt obligations; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operating activities to required payments on debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for working capital, capital expenditures and other general business activities; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general business activities; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • detracting from our ability to successfully withstand a downturn in our business or the economy generally; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage against other less leveraged competitors; and • making us vulnerable to increases in interest rates, because debt under our credit facility is at variable rates. We may be required to repay all or a portion of our debt on an accelerated basis in certain circumstances. If we fail to comply with the covenants and other restrictions in the agreements governing our debt, it could lead to an event of default and the acceleration of our repayment of outstanding debt. Our ability to comply with these covenants and other restrictions may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic and financial conditions. Our borrowing base under our bank credit facility, which is redetermined semi-annually, is based on an amount established by the bank group after its evaluation of our proved oil and gas reserve values. Our borrowing base is scheduled to be redetermined by May 2010. Upon a redetermination, if borrowings in excess of the revised borrowing capacity were outstanding, we could be forced to repay a portion of our bank debt. We may not have sufficient funds to make such repayments. If we are unable to repay our debt out of cash on hand, we could attempt to refinance such debt, sell assets or repay such debt with the proceeds from an equity offering. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities to pay the interest on our debt or that future borrowings, equity financings or proceeds from the sale of assets will be available to pay or refinance such debt. The terms of our debt, including our credit facility and our indentures, may also prohibit us from taking such actions. Factors that will affect our ability to raise cash through an offering of our capital stock, a refinancing of our debt or a sale of assets include financial market conditions and our market value and operating performance at the time of such offering, refinancing or sale of assets. We cannot assure you that any such offering, refinancing or sale of assets can be successfully completed. 10 Table of Contents We have experienced significant shut-ins and losses of production due to the effects of hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico. Approximately 99.6% of our estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2009 and 100% of our production during 2009 were associated with our Gulf Coast Basin properties. Accordingly, if the level of production from these properties substantially declines, it could have a material adverse effect on our overall production level and our revenue. We are particularly vulnerable to significant risk from hurricanes and tropical storms in the Gulf of Mexico. During 2009 and 2008, we experienced production deferrals due to Hurricanes Gustav and Ike. During 2007, 2006 and 2005, we experienced production deferrals due to Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, and during 2004, we experienced production deferrals due to Hurricane Ivan. We are unable to predict what impact future hurricanes and tropical storms might have on our future results of operations and production. The marketability of our production depends mostly upon the availability, proximity and capacity of oil and natural gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities. The marketability of our production depends upon the availability, proximity, operation and capacity of oil and natural gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities. The unavailability or lack of capacity of these systems and facilities could result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. Federal, state and local regulation of oil and gas production and transportation, general economic conditions and changes in supply and demand could adversely affect our ability to produce and market our oil and natural gas. If market factors changed dramatically, the financial impact on us could be substantial. The availability of markets and the volatility of product prices are beyond our control and represent a significant risk. We may not receive payment for a portion of our future production. We may not receive payment for a portion of our future production. We have attempted to diversify our sales and obtain credit protections such as parental guarantees from certain of our purchasers. The tightening of credit in the financial markets may make it more difficult for customers to obtain financing and, depending on the degree to which this occurs, there may be a material increase in the nonpayment and nonperformance by customers. We are unable to predict, however, what impact the financial difficulties of certain purchasers may have on our future results of operations and liquidity. Lower oil and gas prices and other factors have resulted, and in the future may result, in ceiling test write-downs and other impairments of our asset carrying values. We use the full cost method of accounting for our oil and gas operations. Accordingly, we capitalize the cost to acquire, explore for and develop oil and gas properties. Under the full cost method of accounting, we compare, at the end of each financial reporting period for each cost center, the present value of estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves (based on a 12-month average hedge adjusted commodity price and excluding cash flows related to estimated abandonment costs), to the net capitalized costs of proved oil and gas properties, net of related deferred taxes. We refer to this comparison as a “ceiling test.” If the net capitalized costs of proved oil and gas properties exceed the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves, we are required to write-down the value of our oil and gas properties to the value of the estimated discounted future net cash flows. A write-down of oil and gas properties does not impact cash flow from operating activities, but does reduce net income. We also assess the carrying amount of goodwill when events occur that may indicate an impairment exists. These events include, for example, a significant decline in oil and gas prices or a decline in our market capitalization. We recorded an impairment of all our goodwill of approximately $466 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The risk that we will be required to write down the carrying value of oil and gas properties and goodwill increases when oil and natural gas prices are low or volatile. In addition, write-downs may occur if we experience substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves or our undeveloped property values, or if estimated future development costs increase. For example, oil and natural gas prices declined significantly throughout the second half of 2008 and into 2009. We recorded a non-cash ceiling test impairment of approximately $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2008 and approximately $505.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Volatility in commodity prices, poor conditions in the global economic markets and other factors could cause us to record additional write-downs of our oil and natural gas properties and other assets in the future and incur additional charges against future earnings. There are uncertainties in successfully integrating our acquisitions. Integrating acquired businesses and properties involves a number of special risks. These risks include the possibility that management may be distracted from regular business concerns by the need to integrate operations and that unforeseen difficulties can arise in integrating operations and systems and in retaining and assimilating employees. Any of these or other similar risks could lead to potential adverse short-term or long-term effects on our operating results. 11 Table of Contents Part of our strategy includes drilling in new or emerging plays. As a result, our drilling in these areas is subject to greater risk and uncertainty. We have made initial investments in acreage and wells in Appalachia. These activities are more uncertain than drilling in areas that are developed and have established production. Our operations in Appalachia are still in the early stages and, to date, we have booked a limited amount of proved reserves associated with our properties in Appalachia. Because emerging plays and new formations have limited or no production history, we are less able to use past drilling results to help predict future results. The lack of historical information may result in not being able to fully execute our expected drilling programs in these areas or the return on investment in these areas may turn out not to be as attractive as anticipated. We cannot assure you that our future drilling activities in Appalachia or other emerging plays will be successful, or if successful will achieve the resource potential levels that we currently anticipate based on the drilling activities that have been completed or achieve the anticipated economic returns based on our current cost models. Our operations are subject to numerous risks of oil and gas drilling and production activities. Oil and gas drilling and production activities are subject to numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or natural gas reserves will be found. The cost of drilling and completing wells is often uncertain. Oil and gas drilling and production activities may be shortened, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • unexpected drilling conditions; • pressure or irregularities in formations; • equipment failures or accidents; • hurricanes and other weather conditions; • shortages in experienced labor; and • shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment. The prevailing prices of oil and natural gas also affect the cost of and the demand for drilling rigs, production equipment and related services. We cannot assure you that the new wells we drill will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment. Drilling for oil and natural gas may be unprofitable. Drilling activities can result in dry wells and wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net revenue after operating and other costs to recoup drilling costs. Our industry experiences numerous operating risks. The exploration, development and production of oil and gas properties involves a variety of operating risks including the risk of fire, explosions, blowouts, pipe failure, abnormally pressured formations and environmental hazards. Environmental hazards include oil spills, gas leaks, pipeline ruptures or discharges of toxic gases. Additionally, our offshore operations are subject to the additional hazards of marine operations, such as capsizing, collision and adverse weather and sea conditions, including the effects of hurricanes. We have begun to explore for natural gas and oil in the deep waters of the GOM (water depths greater than 2,000 feet) where operations are more difficult and more expensive than in shallower waters. Our deep water drilling and operations require the application of recently developed technologies that involve a higher risk of mechanical failure. The deep waters of the GOM often lack the physical infrastructure and availability of services present in the shallower waters. As a result, deep water operations may require a significant amount of time between a discovery and the time that we can market the oil and gas, increasing the risks involved with these operations. If any of these industry-operating risks occur, we could have substantial losses. Substantial losses may be caused by injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution or other environmental damage, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties and suspension of operations. We may not be insured against all of the operating risks to which our business in exposed. In accordance with industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of the operating risks to which our business is exposed. We cannot assure you that our insurance will be adequate to cover losses or liabilities. We experienced Gulf of Mexico production interruption in 2005, 2006 and 2007 from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita and in 2008 and 2009 from Hurricanes Gustav and Ike for which we had no production interruption insurance. Also, we cannot predict the continued availability of insurance at premium levels that justify its purchase. No assurance can be given that we will be able to maintain insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable and may elect none or minimal insurance coverage. The occurrence of a significant event, not fully insured or indemnified against, could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and operations. 12 Table of Contents Terrorist attacks aimed at our facilities could adversely affect our business. The U.S. government has issued warnings that U.S. energy assets may be the future targets of terrorist organizations. These developments have subjected our operations to increased risks. Any future terrorist attack at our facilities, or those of our purchasers, could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and operations. Competition within our industry may adversely affect our operations. Competition in the Gulf Coast Basin and the Appalachia region is intense, particularly with respect to the acquisition of producing properties and undeveloped acreage. We compete with major oil and gas companies and other independent producers of varying sizes, all of which are engaged in the acquisition of properties and the exploration and development of such properties. Many of our competitors have financial resources and exploration and development budgets that are substantially greater than ours, which may adversely affect our ability to compete. Our oil and gas operations are subject to various U.S. federal, state and local governmental regulations that materially affect our operations. Our oil and gas operations are subject to various U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations. These laws and regulations may be changed in response to economic or political conditions. Regulated matters include: permits for exploration, development and production operations; limitations on our drilling activities in environmentally sensitive areas, such as wetlands and restrictions on the way we can release materials into the environment; bonds or other financial responsibility requirements to cover drilling contingencies and well plugging and abandonment costs; reports concerning operations, the spacing of wells and unitization and pooling of properties; and taxation. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations can result in the assessment of administrative, civil, or criminal penalties, the issuance of remedial obligations, and the imposition of injunctions limiting or prohibiting certain of our operations. At various times, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on oil and gas production. In order to conserve supplies of oil and gas, these agencies have restricted the rates of flow of oil and gas wells below actual production capacity. In addition, the OPA requires operators of offshore facilities such as us to prove that they have the financial capability to respond to costs that may be incurred in connection with potential oil spills. Under OPA and other federal and state environmental statutes like the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (“CERCLA”) and Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”), owners and operators of certain defined onshore and offshore facilities are strictly liable for spills of oil and other regulated substances, subject to certain limitations. Consequently, a substantial spill from one of our facilities subject to laws such as OPA, CERCLA and RCRA could require the expenditure of additional, and potentially significant, amounts of capital, or could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. Federal, state and local laws regulate production, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of oil and gas, by-products from oil and gas and other substances, and materials produced or used in connection with oil and gas operations. We cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their impact on our earnings, operations or competitive position. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to operate. Our operations are dependent upon key management and technical personnel. We cannot assure you that individuals will remain with us for the immediate or foreseeable future. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of these individuals could have an adverse effect on us. Hedging transactions may limit our potential gains or become ineffective. In order to manage our exposure to price risks in the marketing of our oil and natural gas, we periodically enter into oil and gas price hedging arrangements with respect to a portion of our expected production. Our hedging policy provides that, without prior approval of our board of directors, generally not more than 50% of our estimated production quantities may be hedged. These arrangements may include futures contracts on the New York Mercantile Exchange (“NYMEX”). While intended to reduce the effects of volatile oil and gas prices, such transactions, depending on the hedging instrument used, may limit our potential gains if oil and gas prices were to rise substantially over the price established by the hedge. In addition, such transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: • our production is less than expected or is shut-in for extended periods due to hurricanes or other factors; • there is a widening of price differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery point assumed in the hedge arrangement; • the counterparties to our futures contracts fail to perform the contracts; • a sudden, unexpected event materially impacts oil or natural gas prices; or • we are unable to market our production in a manner contemplated when entering into the hedge contract. 13 Table of Contents Our hedging transactions will impact our earnings in various ways. Due to the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, we may have to recognize mark-to-market gains and losses on derivative instruments as the estimated fair value of our commodity derivative instruments is subject to significant fluctuations from period to period. The amount of any actual gains or losses recognized will likely differ from our period to period estimates and will be a function of the actual price of the commodities on the settlement date of the derivative instrument. We expect that commodity prices will continue to fluctuate in the future and, as a result, our periodic financial results will continue to be subject to fluctuations related to our derivative instruments. Currently, some of our outstanding commodity derivative instruments are with certain lenders or affiliates of the lenders under our bank credit facility. Our existing derivative agreements with our lenders are secured by the security documents executed by the parties under our bank credit facility. Future collateral requirements for our commodity hedging activities are uncertain and will depend on the arrangements we negotiate with the counterparty and the volatility of oil and natural gas prices and market conditions. Our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws have provisions that discourage corporate takeovers and could prevent stockholders from realizing a premium on their investment. Certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws and the provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may encourage persons considering unsolicited tender offers or other unilateral takeover proposals to negotiate with our board of directors rather than pursue non-negotiated takeover attempts. Our board of directors are elected by plurality voting. Also, our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and to set the rights, preferences and other designations, including voting rights of those shares, as the board may determine. Additional provisions include restrictions on business combinations and the availability of authorized but unissued common stock. These provisions, alone or in combination with each other, may discourage transactions involving actual or potential changes of control, including transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices to stockholders for their common stock. Resolution of litigation could materially affect our financial position and results of operations. We have been named as a defendant in certain lawsuits (See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings”). In some of these suits, our liability for potential loss upon resolution may be mitigated by insurance coverage. To the extent that potential exposure to liability is not covered by insurance or insurance coverage is inadequate, we could incur losses that could be material to our financial position or results of operations in future periods. Certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. Among the changes contained in President Obama’s budget proposal for fiscal year 2011, released by the White House on February 1, 2010, is the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax preferences currently available to oil and gas exploration and production companies. Such changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties; (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs; (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain U.S. production activities; and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear, however, whether any such changes will be enacted or how soon such changes could be effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of the budget proposal or any other similar change in U.S. federal income tax law could eliminate certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, and any such change could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operation. The adoption of climate change legislation by Congress could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas we produce. In June 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bill—the “American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009,” also known as the “Waxman-Markey cap-and-trade legislation” (“ACESA”)—to control and reduce the emission of “greenhouse gases” (“GHGs”), such as carbon dioxide and methane, that may be contributing to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. The Senate is currently considering similar legislation that seeks to reduce emission of GHGs in the United States through the granting of emission allowances which would gradually be decreased over time. Moreover, nearly half of the states, either individually or through multi-state initiatives, already have begun implementing legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs. Also, on December 15, 2009, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) officially published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other GHGs present an endangerment to human health and the environment. These findings by the EPA allow the agency to proceed with the adoption and implementation of regulations that would restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. In late September 2009, the EPA had proposed two sets of regulations in 14 Table of Contents anticipation of finalizing its findings that would require a reduction in emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles that could also lead to the imposition of GHG emission limitations in Clean Air Act permits for certain stationary sources. In addition, on September 22, 2009, the EPA issued a final rule requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from specified large GHG emission sources in the United States beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. Although the vast majority of our facilities were not subject to the EPA’s GHG reporting rule adopted in September 2009, EPA has indicated that it is evaluating whether the rule should be applied to oil and gas production activities, perhaps on a field-wide basis. While it is not possible at this time to fully predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted in the United States to address GHG emissions would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, and could have an adverse effect on demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce. The adoption of derivatives legislation by Congress could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. Congress currently is considering broad financial regulatory reform legislation that among other things would impose comprehensive regulation on the over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivatives marketplace and could affect the use of derivatives in hedging transactions. The financial regulatory reform bill adopted by the House of Representatives on December 11, 2009, would subject swap dealers and “major swap participants” to substantial supervision and regulation, including capital standards, margin requirements, business conduct standards, and recordkeeping and reporting requirements. It also would require central clearing for transactions entered into between swap dealers or major swap participants. For these purposes, a major swap participant generally would be someone other than a dealer who maintains a “substantial” net position in outstanding swaps, excluding swaps used for commercial hedging or for reducing or mitigating commercial risk, or whose positions create substantial net counterparty exposure that could have serious adverse effects on the financial stability of the U.S. banking system or financial markets. The House-passed bill also would provide the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) with express authority to impose position limits for OTC derivatives related to energy commodities. Separately, in late January, 2010, the CFTC proposed regulations that would impose speculative position limits for certain futures and option contracts in natural gas, crude oil, heating oil, and gasoline. These proposed regulations would make an exemption available for certain bona fide hedging of commercial risks. Although it is not possible at this time to predict whether or when Congress will act on derivatives legislation or the CFTC will finalize its proposed regulations, any laws or regulations that subject us to additional capital or margin requirements relating to, or to additional restrictions on, our trading and commodity positions could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business or on the cost of our hedging activity. Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. The U.S. Congress is currently considering legislation to amend the federal Safe Drinking Water Act (“SDWA”), to subject hydraulic fracturing operations to regulation under the SDWA and to require the disclosure of chemicals used by the oil and gas industry in the hydraulic fracturing process. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate oil and gas production. Sponsors of bills currently pending before the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives have asserted that chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect drinking water supplies. Proposed legislation would require, among other things, the reporting and public disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process, which could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings against producers. In addition, these bills, if adopted, could establish an additional level of regulation and permitting of hydraulic fracturing operations at the federal level, which could lead to operational delays, increased operating costs and additional regulatory burdens that could make it more difficult for us to perform hydraulic fracturing, which is an important component of well development. Any impairment of our ability to perform hydraulic fracturing could have an adverse effect on our ability to produce oil and gas from new wells. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 15 Table of Contents 