ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSOur business is subject to a number of risks including, but not limited to, those described below:Oil and natural gas prices are volatile. Significant declines in commodity prices have adversely affected, and in the future may adversely affect, our financial condition and results of operations, cash flows, access to the capital markets and ability to grow.Our revenues, cash flows, profitability and future rate of growth substantially depend upon the market prices of oil and natural gas. Prices affect our cash flows available for capital expenditures and our ability to access funds under our bank credit facility and through the capital markets. The amount available for borrowing under our bank credit facility is subject to a borrowing base, which is determined by the lenders taking into account our estimated proved reserves, and is subject to periodic redeterminations based on pricing models determined by the lenders at such time. The significant decline in oil and natural gas prices in the second half of 2014 and throughout 2015 has materially adversely impacted the value of our estimated proved reserves and, in turn, the market value used by the lenders to determine our borrowing base. If commodity prices remain suppressed or continue to decline in the future, it will likely have material adverse effects on our reserves and borrowing base. Further, because we use the full cost method of accounting for our oil and gas operations, we perform a ceiling test each quarter, which is impacted by declining prices. Significant price declines could cause us to take additional ceiling test write-downs, which would be reflected as non-cash charges against current earnings. See “—Lower oil and natural gas prices and other factors have resulted, and in the future may result, in ceiling test write-downs and other impairments of our asset carrying values.”In addition, significant or extended price declines may also adversely affect the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically. For example, our Mary field in Appalachia has been shut-in since September 1, 2015, due to low prices for natural gas and NGLs, and high midstream costs. A reduction in production could result in a shortfall in our expected cash flows and require us to reduce our capital spending or borrow funds to cover any such shortfall. Any of these factors could negatively impact our ability to replace our production and our future rate of growth.The markets for oil and natural gas have been volatile historically and are likely to remain volatile in the future. For example, during the period January 1, 2013 through December 31, 2015, the West Texas Intermediate (“WTI”) crude oil price per Bbl ranged from a low of $34.73 to a high of $110.53, and the New York Mercantile Exchange (“NYMEX”) natural gas price per MMBtu ranged from a low of $1.76 to a high of $6.15. The prices we receive for our oil and natural gas depend upon many factors beyond our control, including, among others:•changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas;•market uncertainty;•level of consumer product demands;•hurricanes and other weather conditions;•domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes;•price and availability of alternative fuels;10Table of Contents•political and economic conditions in oil-producing countries, particularly those in the Middle East, Russia, South America and Africa;•actions by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries;•U.S. and foreign supply of oil and natural gas;•price of oil and natural gas imports; and•overall domestic and foreign economic conditions.These factors make it very difficult to predict future commodity price movements with any certainty. Substantially all of our oil and natural gas sales are made in the spot market or pursuant to contracts based on spot market prices and are not long-term fixed price contracts. Further, oil prices and natural gas prices do not necessarily fluctuate in direct relation to each other.Regulatory requirements and permitting procedures imposed by the BOEM and BSEE could significantly delay our ability to obtain permits to drill new wells in offshore waters. Increases in financial assurance requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.Subsequent to the Deepwater Horizon incident in the GOM in April 2010, the BOEM issued a series of NTLs imposing regulatory requirements and permitting procedures for new wells to be drilled in federal waters of the OCS. These regulatory requirements include the following:•the Environmental NTL, which imposes new and more stringent requirements for documenting the environmental impacts potentially associated with the drilling of a new offshore well and significantly increases oil spill response requirements;•the Compliance and Review NTL, which imposes requirements for operators to secure independent reviews of well design, construction and flow intervention processes and also requires certifications of compliance from senior corporate officers;•the Drilling Safety Rule, which prescribes tighter cementing and casing practices, imposes standards for the use of drilling fluids to maintain well bore integrity and stiffens oversight requirements relating to blowout preventers and their components, including shear and pipe rams; and•the Workplace Safety Rule, which requires operators to employ a comprehensive safety and environmental management system (“SEMS”) to reduce human and organizational errors as root causes of work-related accidents and offshore spills, develop protocols as to whom at the facility has the ultimate operational safety and decision-making authority, establish procedures to provide all personnel with “stop work” authority, and to have their SEMS periodically audited by an independent third party auditor approved by the BSEE.Since the adoption of these new regulatory requirements, the BOEM has been taking longer to review and approve permits for new wells than was common prior to the Deepwater Horizon incident. The rules also increase the cost of preparing each permit application and increase the cost of each new well, particularly for wells drilled in deeper waters of the OCS. We could become subject to fines, penalties or orders requiring us to modify or suspend our operations in the GOM if we fail to comply with the BOEM’s NTLs or other regulatory requirements. Additional federal action is likely. For example, in April 2015, BSEE released a proposed rule containing more stringent standards relating to well control equipment used in connection with offshore well drilling operations. The proposed standards focus on blowout preventers, along with well design, well control, casing, cementing, real-time well monitoring, and subsea containment requirements. Compliance with new and future regulations could result in significant costs, including increased capital expenditures and operating costs, and could adversely impact our business. In addition, under certain circumstances, the BSEE may require our operations on federal leases to be suspended or terminated. Any such suspension or termination could adversely affect our financial condition and operations.In addition, in September 2015, the BOEM issued its Draft Guidance describing revised supplemental bonding procedures the agency plans to use to impose financial assurance obligations for decommissioning activities on the federal OCS. Once the Draft Guidance is finalized, the BOEM will issue these supplemental bonding changes in a revised NTL in replacement of an existing NTL on supplemental bonding that was made effective on August 28, 2008. Among other things, the Draft Guidance proposes to eliminate the “waiver” exemption currently allowed by BOEM, whereby certain operators on the OCS projecting a relatively large net worth and meeting certain other criteria have the option of being exempted from posting bonds or other acceptable assurances for such operator’s decommissioning obligations. Currently, qualifying operators may self-insure to meet supplemental bonding requirements, but only so long as the cumulative decommissioning liability amount being self-insured by the operator is no more than 50% of the operator’s net worth. Under the Draft Guidance, this waiver option would be eliminated and operators would only be able to self-insure for an amount that is no more than 10% of their tangible net worth.11Table of ContentsIn 2016, we expect that we will not be able to qualify for a supplemental bonding waiver under the existing NTL as suppressed oil and natural gas prices have negatively affected our net worth. If we cannot qualify for a waiver, we will have to obtain surety bonds or other forms of financial assurance, the costs of which could be significant. Moreover, BOEM’s Draft Guidance is likely to result in the loss of supplemental bonding waivers for a large number of operators on the OCS, which will in turn force these operators to seek additional surety bonds and could, consequently, exceed the surety bond market’s current capacity for providing such additional financial assurance. Operators who have already leveraged their assets as a result of the declining oil market could face difficulty obtaining surety bonds because of concerns the surety may have about the priority of their lien on the operator's collateral. All of these factors may make it more difficult to obtain the financial assurances required by BOEM to conduct operations on the OCS. These and other changes to BOEM bonding and financial assurance requirements could result in increased costs on our operations and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.We may not be able to replace production with new reserves.In general, the volume of production from oil and gas properties declines as reserves are depleted. The decline rates depend on reservoir characteristics. GOM reservoirs tend to be recovered quickly through production with associated steep declines, while declines in other regions after initial flush production tend to be relatively low. Our reserves will decline as they are produced unless we acquire properties with proved reserves or conduct successful development and exploration drilling activities. Our future oil and natural gas production is highly dependent upon our level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves at a unit cost that is sustainable at prevailing commodity prices.Exploring for, developing or acquiring reserves is capital intensive and uncertain. We may not be able to economically find, develop or acquire additional reserves or make the necessary capital investments if our cash flows from operations decline or external sources of capital become limited or unavailable. We cannot assure you that our future exploitation, exploration, development and acquisition activities will result in additional proved reserves or that we will be able to drill productive wells at acceptable costs. Further, current market conditions have adversely impacted our ability to obtain financing to fund acquisitions, and they have lowered the level of activity and depressed values in the oil and natural gas property sales market.Production periods or reserve lives for GOM properties may subject us to higher reserve replacement needs and may impair our ability to reduce production during periods of low oil and natural gas prices.High production rates generally result in recovery of a relatively higher percentage of reserves from properties in the GOM during the initial few years when compared to other regions in the United States. Typically, 50% of the reserves of properties in the GOM are depleted within three to four years with natural gas wells having a higher rate of depletion than oil wells. Due to high initial production rates, production of reserves from reservoirs in the GOM generally decline more rapidly than from other producing reservoirs. The majority of our existing operations are in the GOM. As a result, our reserve replacement needs from new prospects may be greater than those of other oil and gas companies with longer-life reserves in other producing areas. Also, our expected revenues and return on capital will depend on prices prevailing during these relatively short production periods. Our need to generate revenues to fund ongoing capital commitments or repay debt may limit our ability to slow or shut-in production from producing wells during periods of low prices for oil and natural gas.Our actual recovery of reserves may substantially differ from our proved reserve estimates.This Form 10-K contains estimates of our proved oil and natural gas reserves and the estimated future net cash flows from such reserves. These estimates are based upon various assumptions, including assumptions required by the SEC relating to oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. This process requires significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir and is therefore inherently imprecise. Additionally, our interpretations of the rules governing the estimation of proved reserves could differ from the interpretation of staff members of regulatory authorities resulting in estimates that could be challenged by these authorities.Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves will most likely vary from those estimated. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves set forth in this Form 10-K and the information incorporated by reference. Our properties may also be susceptible to hydrocarbon drainage from production by other operators on adjacent properties. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.You should not assume that any present value of future net cash flows from our proved reserves contained in this Form 10-K represents the market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. We base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves at December 31, 2015 on historical 12-month average prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. 12Table of ContentsActual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. Further, actual future net revenues will be affected by factors such as the amount and timing of actual development expenditures, the rate and timing of production and changes in governmental regulations or taxes. At December 31, 2015, approximately 27% of our estimated proved reserves (by volume) were undeveloped. Recovery of undeveloped reserves generally requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. Our reserve estimates include the assumptions that we will incur capital expenditures to develop these undeveloped reserves and the actual costs and results associated with these properties may not be as estimated. In addition, the 10% discount factor that we use to calculate the net present value of future net revenues and cash flows may not necessarily be the most appropriate discount factor based on our cost of capital in effect from time to time and the risks associated with our business and the oil and gas industry in general.We require substantial capital expenditures to conduct our operations and replace our production, and we may be unable to obtain needed financing on satisfactory terms necessary to fund our planned capital expenditures.We spend and will continue to spend a substantial amount of capital for the acquisition, exploration, exploitation, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves. If low oil and natural gas prices, operating difficulties or other factors, many of which are beyond our control, cause our revenues and cash flows from operating activities to decrease, we may be limited in our ability to fund the capital necessary to complete our capital expenditures program. In addition, if our borrowing base under our bank credit facility is redetermined to a lower amount, this could adversely affect our ability to fund our planned capital expenditures. After utilizing our available sources of financing, we may be forced to raise additional debt or equity proceeds to fund such capital expenditures. We cannot be sure that additional debt or equity financing will be available or cash flows provided by operations will be sufficient to meet these requirements. For example, the ability of oil and gas companies to access the equity and high yield debt markets has been significantly limited since the significant decline in commodity prices in the fourth quarter of 2014 and throughout 2015. Our stock price has decreased from $16.60 per share on January 1, 2015 to $1.85 per share on February 22, 2016, and could decline further. The current trading price of our common stock, or any further declines thereof, may impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock.The closing market price of our common stock has recently declined significantly. If the average closing price of our common stock declines to less than $1.00 over 30 consecutive trading days, our common stock could be delisted from the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) or trading could be suspended. Our common stock is currently listed on the NYSE. In order for our common stock to continue to be listed on the NYSE, we are required to comply with various listing standards, including the maintenance of a minimum average closing price of at least $1.00 per share during a consecutive 30 trading-day period. A renewed or continued decline in the closing price of our common stock on the NYSE could result in a breach of these requirements. Although we would have an opportunity to take action to cure such a breach, if we did not succeed, the NYSE could commence suspension or delisting procedures in respect of our common stock. In addition, our common stock could be delisted pursuant to Section 802.01 of the NYSE Listed Company Manual if the trading price of our common stock on the NYSE falls below $0.16 per share. In this event, we would not have an opportunity to cure the stock price deficiency, and our shares would be delisted immediately and suspended from trading on the NYSE. The commencement of suspension or delisting procedures by an exchange remains, at all times, at the discretion of such exchange and would be publicly announced by the exchange. If a suspension or delisting were to occur, there would be significantly less liquidity in the suspended or delisted securities. In addition, our ability to raise additional necessary capital through equity or debt financing, and attract and retain personnel by means of equity compensation, would be greatly impaired. Furthermore, with respect to any suspended or delisted securities, we would expect decreases in institutional and other investor demand, analyst coverage, market making activity and information available concerning trading prices and volume, and fewer broker-dealers would be willing to execute trades with respect to such securities. A suspension or delisting would likely decrease the attractiveness of our common stock to investors and cause the trading volume of our common stock to decline, which could result in a further decline in the market price of our common stock.Our estimates of future asset retirement obligations may vary significantly from period to period.We are required to record a liability for the discounted present value of our asset retirement obligations to plug and abandon inactive, non-producing wells, to remove inactive or damaged platforms, facilities and equipment, and to restore the land or seabed at the end of oil and natural gas operations. These costs are typically considerably more expensive for offshore operations as compared to most land-based operations due to increased regulatory scrutiny and the logistical issues associated with working in waters of various depths. Estimating future restoration and removal costs in the GOM is especially difficult because most of the removal obligations may be many years in the future, regulatory requirements are subject to change or more restrictive interpretation and asset removal technologies are constantly evolving, which may result in additional or increased or decreased costs. As a result, we may make significant increases or decreases to our estimated asset retirement obligations in future periods. For example, because we operate in the GOM, platforms, facilities and equipment are subject to damage or destruction as a result of hurricanes. The estimated costs to plug and abandon a well or dismantle a platform can change dramatically if the host platform from which 13Table of Contentsthe work was anticipated to be performed is damaged or toppled rather than structurally intact. Accordingly, our estimates of future asset retirement obligations could differ dramatically from what we may ultimately incur as a result of damage from a hurricane.A financial crisis may impact our business and financial condition and may adversely impact our ability to obtain funding under our current bank credit facility or in the capital markets.Historically, we have used our cash flows from operating activities and borrowings under our bank credit facility to fund our capital expenditures and have relied on the capital markets and asset monetization transactions to provide us with additional capital for large or exceptional transactions. In the future, we may not be able to access adequate funding under our bank credit facility as a result of (i) a decrease in our borrowing base due to the outcome of a borrowing base redetermination or a breach or default under our bank credit facility, including breach of a financial covenant or (ii) an unwillingness or inability on the part of our lending counterparties to meet their funding obligations. In addition, we may face limitations on our ability to access the debt and equity capital markets and complete asset sales, an increased counterparty credit risk on our derivatives contracts and the requirement by contractual counterparties of us to post collateral guaranteeing performance.We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions in order to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. As of December 31, 2015, we had total indebtedness of $1,087 million and, as of February 22, 2016, we had total indebtedness of $1,137 million. Based on our current debt balance, we expect to have interest payments due during 2016, totaling approximately $67 million. In addition, our 2017 Convertible Notes (as defined herein) mature in March 2017, and most of our other outstanding indebtedness will mature within the next seven years. Our ability to make scheduled payments on, or to refinance, our debt obligations will depend on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. Lower commodity prices have negatively impacted our revenues, earnings and cash flows, and sustained low oil and natural gas prices will have a material and adverse effect on our liquidity position. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operating activities or that future sources of capital will be available to us in an amount sufficient to permit us to service our indebtedness or repay our indebtedness as it becomes due or to fund our other liquidity needs. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will have the ability to borrow or otherwise raise the amounts necessary to repay or refinance our indebtedness as it matures. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt or meet our debt obligations as they become due, we may be required to restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt, obtain additional financing, sell some of our assets or operations or reduce or delay capital expenditures, including development and exploration efforts and acquisitions. We may be unable to restructure or refinance our debt, obtain additional financing or capital or sell assets on satisfactory terms, if at all. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default under the terms of the agreements governing our debt and, as a result, our debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, which would in turn trigger cross-acceleration or cross-default rights between the relevant agreements. The lenders under our revolving credit facility could also terminate their commitments to lend us money and foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.Our debt level and the covenants in the current and any future agreements governing our debt could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in the acceleration of our outstanding indebtedness.The terms of the current agreements governing our debt impose significant restrictions on our ability to take a number of actions that we may otherwise desire to take, including:•incurring additional debt;•paying dividends on stock, redeeming stock or redeeming subordinated debt;•making investments;•creating liens on our assets;•selling assets;•guaranteeing other indebtedness;•entering into agreements that restrict dividends from our subsidiary to us;•merging, consolidating or transferring all or substantially all of our assets; and•entering into transactions with affiliates.Our level of indebtedness, and the covenants contained in current and future agreements governing our debt, could have important consequences on our operations, including:14Table of Contents•making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under the indentures or other debt and increasing the risk that we may default on our debt obligations;•requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operating activities to required payments on debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for working capital, capital expenditures and other general business activities;•limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general business activities;•limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;•detracting from our ability to successfully withstand a downturn in our business or the economy generally;•placing us at a competitive disadvantage against other less leveraged competitors; and•making us vulnerable to increases in interest rates because debt under our bank credit facility is at variable rates.We may be required to repay all or a portion of our debt on an accelerated basis in certain circumstances. If we fail to comply with the covenants and other restrictions in the agreements governing our debt, it could lead to an event of default and the acceleration of our repayment of outstanding debt. Our ability to comply with these covenants and other restrictions may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic and financial conditions. Lower commodity prices have negatively impacted revenues, earnings and cash flows, and sustained low oil and natural gas prices will have a material and adverse effect on our liquidity position. Our cash flow is highly dependent on the prices we receive for oil and natural gas, which declined significantly in the quarter ended December 31, 2015 and further in the current quarter. We depend on our bank credit facility for a portion of our future capital needs. We are required to comply with certain debt covenants and ratios under our bank credit facility. As of December 31, 2015, we were in compliance with all of our financial covenants under our bank credit facility and the indentures governing our outstanding notes. However, given the lower commodity prices and our reduced hedged position in 2016, we anticipate that we could exceed the Consolidated Funded Debt to consolidated EBITDA financial covenant of 3.75 to 1 set forth in our bank credit facility at the end of the first quarter of 2016, which would require us to seek a waiver or amendment from our bank lenders. We are currently in discussions with our banks regarding an amendment to our bank credit facility. If we are unable to reach an agreement with our banks or find acceptable alternative financing, it may lead to an event of default under our bank credit facility. If following an event of default, the banks were to accelerate repayment under the bank credit facility, it may result in an event of default and an acceleration under our other debt instruments. Our borrowing base under our bank credit facility, which is redetermined semi-annually, is based on an amount established by the lenders after their evaluation of our proved oil and natural gas reserve values. Our borrowing base is scheduled to be redetermined by May 2016. If, due to a redetermination of our borrowing base, our outstanding bank credit facility borrowings plus our outstanding letters of credit exceed our redetermined borrowing base (referred to as a borrowing base deficiency), we could be required to repay such borrowing base deficiency. Our agreement with the banks allows us to cure a borrowing base deficiency through any combination of the following actions: (1) repay amounts outstanding sufficient to cure the borrowing base deficiency within 10 days after our written election to do so; (2) add additional oil and gas properties acceptable to the banks to the borrowing base and take such actions necessary to grant the banks a mortgage in such oil and gas properties within 30 days after our written election to do so and/or (3) pay the deficiency in six equal monthly installments. We expect our borrowing base to be decreased by May 2016, but we do not expect a borrowing base deficiency at such time.We may not have sufficient funds to make such repayments. If we do not repay our debt out of cash on hand, we could attempt to restructure or refinance such debt, sell assets or repay such debt with the proceeds from an equity offering. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operating activities to pay the interest on our debt or that future borrowings, equity financings or proceeds from the sale of assets will be available to pay or refinance such debt. The terms of our debt, including our bank credit facility and our indentures, may also prohibit us from taking such actions. Factors that will affect our ability to raise cash through offerings of our capital stock, a refinancing of our debt or a sale of assets include financial market conditions and our market value and operating performance at the time of such offerings, refinancing or sale of assets. We cannot assure you that any such offerings, restructuring, refinancing or sale of assets will be successfully completed.We are in the process of analyzing various strategic alternatives to address our liquidity and capital structure, including strategic and refinancing alternatives through a private restructuring, assets sales and a prepackaged filing under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Seeking Bankruptcy Court protection could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. So long as a proceeding related to a Chapter 11 proceeding continues, our senior management would be required to spend a significant amount of time and effort dealing with the reorganization instead of focusing on our business operations. Bankruptcy Court protection also might make it more difficult to retain management and other key personnel necessary to the success and growth of our business. In addition, the longer a proceeding related to a Chapter 11 proceeding continues, the more likely it is that our customers and suppliers would lose confidence in our ability to reorganize our businesses successfully and would seek to establish alternative commercial relationships. 15Table of ContentsAdditionally, we may have a significant amount of secured indebtedness that is senior to our unsecured indebtedness and a significant amount of total indebtedness that is senior to our existing common stock in our capital structure. As a result, we believe that seeking Bankruptcy Court protection under a Chapter 11 proceeding could result in a limited recovery for unsecured noteholders, if any, and place equity holders at significant risk of losing all of their interests in the company.We may experience significant shut-ins and losses of production due to the effects of hurricanes in the GOM.Approximately 56% of our production during 2015 was associated with our GOM deep water, Gulf Coast deep gas and GOM conventional shelf properties. Accordingly, if the level of production from these properties substantially declines, it could have a material adverse effect on our overall production level and our revenue. We are particularly vulnerable to significant risk from hurricanes and tropical storms in the GOM. In past years, we have experienced shut-ins and losses of production due to the effects of hurricanes in the GOM. We are unable to predict what impact future hurricanes and tropical storms might have on our future results of operations and production.Our acreage must be drilled before lease expiration in order to hold the acreage by production. If commodity prices become depressed for an extended period of time, it might not be economical for us to drill sufficient wells in order to hold acreage, which could result in the expiry of a portion of our acreage, which could have an adverse effect on our business.Unless production is established within the spacing units covering the undeveloped acres on which some of the locations are identified, the leases for such acreage may expire. We have leases on 113,313 gross acres (54,686 net) that could potentially expire during fiscal year 2016. See Item 2. Properties – Productive Well and Acreage Data.Our drilling plans for areas not currently held by production are subject to change based upon various factors. Many of these factors are beyond our control, including drilling results, oil and natural gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints and regulatory approvals. On our acreage that we do not operate, we have less control over the timing of drilling, therefore there is additional risk of expirations occurring in those sections. The marketability of our production depends mostly upon the availability, proximity and capacity of oil and natural gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities.The marketability of our production depends upon the availability, proximity, operation and capacity of oil and natural gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities. The lack of availability or capacity of these gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities could result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. The disruption of these gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities due to maintenance and/or weather could negatively impact our ability to market and deliver our products. Federal, state and local regulation of oil and gas production and transportation, general economic conditions and changes in supply and demand could adversely affect our ability to produce and market our oil and natural gas. If market factors changed dramatically, the financial impact on us could be substantial. The availability of markets and the volatility of product prices are beyond our control and represent a significant risk.We may not receive payment for a portion of our future production.We may not receive payment for a portion of our future production. We have attempted to diversify our sales and obtain credit protections, such as parental guarantees, from certain of our purchasers. The tightening of credit in the financial markets may make it more difficult for customers to obtain financing and, depending on the degree to which this occurs, there may be a material increase in the nonpayment and nonperformance by customers. We are unable to predict what impact the financial difficulties of certain purchasers may have on our future results of operations and liquidity.Our actual production could differ materially from our forecasts.From time to time, we provide forecasts of expected quantities of future oil and gas production. These forecasts are based on a number of estimates, including expectations of production from existing wells. In addition, our forecasts may assume that none of the risks associated with our oil and gas operations summarized in this Item 1A occur, such as facility or equipment malfunctions, adverse weather effects, or significant declines in commodity prices or material increases in costs, which could make certain production uneconomical.Lower oil and natural gas prices and other factors have resulted, and in the future may result, in ceiling test write-downs and other impairments of our asset carrying values.We use the full cost method of accounting for our oil and gas operations. Accordingly, we capitalize the costs to acquire, explore for and develop oil and gas properties. Under the full cost method of accounting, we compare, at the end of each financial 16Table of Contentsreporting period for each cost center, the present value of estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves (based on a trailing 12-month average, hedge-adjusted commodity price and excluding cash flows related to estimated abandonment costs), to the net capitalized costs of proved oil and gas properties, net of related deferred taxes. We refer to this comparison as a ceiling test. If the net capitalized costs of proved oil and gas properties exceed the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves, we are required to write down the value of our oil and gas properties to the value of the estimated discounted future net cash flows. A write-down of oil and gas properties does not impact cash flows from operating activities, but does reduce net income. The risk that we will be required to write down the carrying value of oil and gas properties increases when oil and natural gas prices are low or volatile. In addition, write-downs may occur if we experience substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves or our undeveloped property values, or if estimated future development costs increase. For example, oil and natural gas prices declined significantly during the second half of 2014 and throughout 2015. We recorded a non-cash ceiling test write-down of approximately $351 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 and approximately $1,362 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. Volatility in commodity prices, poor conditions in the global economic markets and other factors could cause us to record additional write-downs of our oil and natural gas properties and other assets in the future and incur additional charges against future earnings.There are uncertainties in successfully integrating our acquisitions.Integrating acquired businesses and properties involves a number of special risks. These risks include the possibility that management may be distracted from regular business concerns by the need to integrate operations and that unforeseen difficulties can arise in integrating operations and systems and in retaining and assimilating employees. Any of these or other similar risks could lead to potential adverse short-term or long-term effects on our operating results.Part of our strategy includes drilling in new or emerging plays. As a result, our drilling in these areas is subject to greater risk and uncertainty.We have made initial investments in acreage in untested regions. These activities are more uncertain than drilling in areas that are developed and have established production. Because emerging plays and new formations have limited or no production history, we are less able to use past drilling results to help predict future results. The lack of historical information may result in us not being able to fully execute our expected drilling programs in these areas or the return on investment in these areas may turn out not to be as attractive as anticipated. We cannot assure you that our future drilling activities in these emerging plays will be successful, or if successful, will achieve the resource potential levels that we currently anticipate based on the drilling activities that have been completed or will achieve the anticipated economic returns based on our current cost models.Our operations are subject to numerous risks of oil and gas drilling and production activities.Oil and gas drilling and production activities are subject to numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or natural gas reserves will be found. The cost of drilling and completing wells is often uncertain. To the extent we drill additional wells in the GOM deep water and/or in the Gulf Coast deep gas, our drilling activities could become more expensive. In addition, the geological complexity of GOM deep water, Gulf Coast deep gas and various onshore formations may make it more difficult for us to sustain our historical rates of drilling success. Oil and gas drilling and production activities may be shortened, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include:•unexpected drilling conditions;•pressure or irregularities in formations;•equipment failures or accidents;•hurricanes and other weather conditions;•shortages in experienced labor; and•shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment.The prevailing prices of oil and natural gas also affect the cost of and the demand for drilling rigs, production equipment and related services. We cannot assure you that the wells we drill will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment. Drilling for oil and natural gas may be unprofitable. Drilling activities can result in dry wells and wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient cash flows to recoup drilling costs.Our industry experiences numerous operating risks.The exploration, development and production of oil and gas properties involves a variety of operating risks including the risk of fire, explosions, blowouts, pipe failure, abnormally pressured formations and environmental hazards. Environmental hazards include oil spills, gas leaks, pipeline ruptures or discharges of toxic gases. We are also involved in drilling operations that utilize hydraulic fracturing, which may potentially present additional operational and environmental risks. Additionally, our offshore 17Table of Contentsoperations are subject to the additional hazards of marine operations, such as capsizing, collision and adverse weather and sea conditions, including the effects of hurricanes.We have begun to explore for oil and natural gas in the deep waters of the GOM (water depths greater than 2,000 feet). Exploration for oil or natural gas in the deepwater of the GOM generally involves greater operational and financial risks than exploration on the shelf. Deepwater drilling generally requires more time and more advanced drilling technologies, involving a higher risk of technological failure and usually higher drilling costs. Deepwater wells often use subsea completion techniques with subsea trees tied back to host production facilities with flow lines. The installation of these subsea trees and flow lines requires substantial time and the use of advanced remote installation mechanics. These operations may encounter mechanical difficulties and equipment failures that could result in cost overruns. Furthermore, the deepwater operations generally lack the physical and oilfield service infrastructure present on the shelf. As a result, a considerable amount of time may elapse between a deepwater discovery and the marketing of the associated oil or natural gas, increasing both the financial and operational risk involved with these operations. Because of the lack and high cost of infrastructure, some reserve discoveries in the deepwater may never be produced economically.If any of these industry operating risks occur, we could have substantial losses. Substantial losses may be caused by injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution or other environmental damage, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties and suspension of operations.We may not be insured against all of the operating risks to which our business is exposed.In accordance with industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of the operating risks to which our business is exposed. We insure some, but not all, of our properties from operational loss-related events. We currently have insurance policies that include coverage for general liability, physical damage to our oil and gas properties, operational control of well, oil pollution, construction all risk, workers’ compensation and employers’ liability and other coverage. Our insurance coverage includes deductibles that must be met prior to recovery, as well as sub-limits or self-insurance. Additionally, our insurance is subject to exclusions and limitations, and there is no assurance that such coverage will adequately protect us against liability from all potential consequences, damages or losses.Currently, we have general liability insurance coverage with an annual aggregate limit of $1 billion on a 100% working interest basis. We no longer purchase physical damage insurance coverage for our platforms for losses resulting from named windstorms. Additionally, we now purchase physical damage insurance coverage for losses resulting from operational activities for only our Amberjack and Pompano platforms. We have continued purchasing physical damage insurance coverage for operational losses for a selected group of pipelines, including the majority of the pipelines and umbilicals associated with our Amberjack and Pompano facilities.Our operational control of well coverage provides limits that vary by well location and depth and range from a combined single limit of $20 million to $500 million per occurrence. Exploratory deep water wells have a coverage limit of up to $600 million per occurrence. Additionally, we currently maintain $150 million in oil pollution liability coverage, including $105 million of self-insurance. Our operational control of well and physical damage policy limits are scaled proportionately to our working interests. Our general liability program utilizes a combination of assureds interest and scalable limits. All of our policies described above are subject to deductibles, sub-limits or self-insurance. Under our service agreements, including drilling contracts, generally we are indemnified for injuries and death of the service provider’s employees as well as contractors and subcontractors hired by the service provider.An operational or hurricane-related event may cause damage or liability in excess of our coverage that might severely impact our financial position. We may be liable for damages from an event relating to a project in which we own a non-operating working interest. Such events may also cause a significant interruption to our business, which might also severely impact our financial position. In past years, we have experienced production interruptions for which we had no production interruption insurance.We reevaluate the purchase of insurance, policy limits and terms annually in May through July. Future insurance coverage for our industry could increase in cost and may include higher deductibles or retentions. In addition, some forms of insurance may become unavailable in the future or unavailable on terms that we believe are economically acceptable. No assurance can be given that we will be able to maintain insurance in the future at rates that we consider reasonable, and we may elect to maintain minimal or no insurance coverage. We may not be able to secure additional insurance or bonding that might be required by new governmental regulations. This may cause us to restrict our operations in the GOM, which might severely impact our financial position. The occurrence of a significant event, not fully insured against, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.18Table of ContentsTerrorist attacks aimed at our facilities could adversely affect our business.The U.S. government has issued warnings that U.S. energy assets may be the future targets of terrorist organizations. These developments have subjected our operations to increased risks. Any future terrorist attack at our facilities, or those of our purchasers, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations.Competition within our industry may adversely affect our operations.Competition within our industry is intense, particularly with respect to the acquisition of producing properties and undeveloped acreage. We compete with major oil and gas companies and other independent producers of varying sizes, all of which are engaged in the acquisition of properties and the exploration and development of such properties. Many of our competitors have financial resources and exploration and development budgets that are substantially greater than ours, which may adversely affect our ability to compete. We actively compete with other companies when acquiring new leases or oil and gas properties. For example, new leases acquired from the BOEM are acquired through a “sealed bid” process and are generally awarded to the highest bidder. These additional resources can be particularly important in reviewing prospects and purchasing properties. The competitors may also have a greater ability to continue drilling activities during periods of low oil and gas prices, such as the current decline in oil prices, and to absorb the burden of current and future governmental regulations and taxation. Competitors may be able to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. Competitors may also be able to pay more for productive oil and gas properties and exploratory prospects than we are able or willing to pay. Further, our competitors may be able to expend greater resources on the existing and changing technologies that we believe will impact attaining success in the industry. If we are unable to compete successfully in these areas in the future, our future revenues and growth may be diminished or restricted.Our oil and gas operations are subject to various U.S. federal, state and local governmental regulations that materially affect our operations.Our oil and gas operations are subject to various U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations. These laws and regulations may be changed in response to economic or political conditions. Regulated matters include: permits for exploration, development and production operations; limitations on our drilling activities in environmentally sensitive areas, such as wetlands, and restrictions on the way we can release materials into the environment; bonds or other financial responsibility requirements to cover drilling contingencies and well plugging and abandonment and other decommissioning costs; reports concerning operations, the spacing of wells and unitization and pooling of properties; and taxation. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations can result in the assessment of administrative, civil or criminal penalties, the issuance of remedial obligations and the imposition of injunctions limiting or prohibiting certain of our operations. At various times, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on oil and gas production. In order to conserve supplies of oil and natural gas, these agencies have restricted the rates of flow of oil and natural gas wells below actual production capacity. In addition, the OPA requires operators of offshore facilities such as us to prove that they have the financial capability to respond to costs that may be incurred in connection with potential oil spills. Under the OPA and other environmental statutes such as CERCLA and RCRA and analogous state laws, owners and operators of certain defined onshore and offshore facilities are strictly liable for spills of oil and other regulated substances, subject to certain limitations. Consequently, a substantial spill from one of our facilities subject to laws such as the OPA, CERCLA and RCRA could require the expenditure of additional, and potentially significant, amounts of capital, or could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. Federal, state and local laws regulate production, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of oil and natural gas, by-products from oil and natural gas and other substances, and materials produced or used in connection with oil and gas operations. We cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their impact on our earnings, operations or competitive position.The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to operate.Our operations are dependent upon key management and technical personnel. We cannot assure you that individuals will remain with us for the immediate or foreseeable future. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of these individuals could have an adverse effect on us.Hedging transactions may limit our potential gains or become ineffective.In order to manage our exposure to price risks in the marketing of our oil and natural gas, we periodically enter into oil and natural gas price hedging arrangements with respect to a portion of our expected production. Our hedging policy provides that, without prior approval of our board of directors, generally not more than 60% of our estimated production quantities may be hedged for any given year. These arrangements may include futures contracts on the NYMEX or the Intercontinental Exchange. While intended to reduce the effects of volatile oil and natural gas prices, such transactions, depending on the hedging instrument 19Table of Contentsused, may limit our potential gains if oil and natural gas prices were to rise substantially over the price established by the hedge. In addition, such transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which:•our production is less than expected or is shut-in for extended periods due to hurricanes or other factors;•there is a widening of price differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery point assumed in the hedge arrangement;•the counterparties to our futures contracts fail to perform the contracts;•a sudden, unexpected event materially impacts oil or natural gas prices; or•we are unable to market our production in a manner contemplated when entering into the hedge contract.At December 31, 2015, two counterparties accounted for approximately 86% of our contracted volumes. Currently, all of our outstanding commodity derivative instruments are with certain lenders or affiliates of the lenders under our bank credit facility. Our existing derivative agreements with the lenders are secured by the security documents executed by the parties under our bank credit facility. Future collateral requirements for our commodity hedging activities are uncertain and will depend on the arrangements we negotiate with the counterparty and the volatility of oil and natural gas prices and market conditions.Our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws and the Delaware General Corporation Law have provisions that, alone or in combination with each other, discourage corporate takeovers and could prevent stockholders from realizing a premium on their investment.Certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws and the provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may encourage persons considering unsolicited tender offers or other unilateral takeover proposals to negotiate with our board of directors rather than pursue non-negotiated takeover attempts. Our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and to set the rights, preferences and other designations, including voting rights of those shares, as our board of directors may determine. Additional provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and of the Delaware General Corporation Law, alone or in combination with each other, include restrictions on business combinations and the availability of authorized but unissued common stock. These provisions, alone or in combination with each other, may discourage transactions involving actual or potential changes of control, including transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices to stockholders for their common stock.We may issue shares of preferred stock with greater rights than our common stock. Our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock and set the terms of the preferred stock without seeking any further approval from our stockholders. Any preferred stock that is issued may rank ahead of our common stock in terms of dividends, liquidation rights or voting rights. If we issue preferred stock, it may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.Additional issuances of equity securities by us would dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders and could reduce our earnings per share.We may issue equity in the future in connection with capital raisings, debt exchanges, acquisitions, strategic transactions or for other purposes. To the extent we issue substantial additional equity securities, the ownership of our existing stockholders would be diluted, and our earnings per share could be reduced. Resolution of litigation could materially affect our financial position and results of operations.We have been named as a defendant in certain lawsuits. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings. In some of these suits, our liability for potential loss upon resolution may be mitigated by insurance coverage. To the extent that potential exposure to liability is not covered by insurance or insurance coverage is inadequate, we could incur losses that could be material to our financial position or results of operations in future periods.Future legislation may result in the elimination of certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development. Additionally, future federal and state legislation may impose new or increased taxes or fees on oil and natural gas extraction.Potential legislation, if enacted into law, could make significant changes to U.S. federal and state income tax laws, including the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and gas exploration and production companies. These changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties; (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs; (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain U.S. production activities; and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether these or similar changes will be enacted and, if enacted, how soon any such changes 20Table of Contentscould become effective. The passage of this legislation or any other similar changes in U.S. federal and state income tax laws could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development, and any such change could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common stock. Additionally, legislation could be enacted that increases the taxes states impose on oil and natural gas extraction. Moreover, President Obama has proposed, as part of the Budget of the United States Government for Fiscal Year 2017, to impose an “oil fee” of $10.25 on a per barrel equivalent of crude oil. This fee would be collected on domestically produced and imported petroleum products. The fee would be phased in evenly over five years, beginning October 1, 2016. The adoption of this, or similar proposals, could result in increased operating costs and/or reduced consumer demand for petroleum products, which in turn could affect the prices we receive for our oil.Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the crude oil and natural gas that we produce.The EPA has determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other “greenhouse gases” present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases contribute to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on these findings, the EPA began adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the CAA. The EPA adopted two sets of rules regulating greenhouse gas emissions under the CAA, one of which requires a reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases from motor vehicles and the other of which regulates emissions of greenhouse gases from certain large stationary sources through preconstruction and operating permit requirements. The EPA has also adopted rules requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources in the United States, on an annual basis. Recently, in December 2015, the EPA finalized rules that added new sources to the scope of the greenhouse gases monitoring and reporting rule. These new sources include gathering and boosting facilities as well as completions and workovers from hydraulically fractured oil wells. The revisions also include the addition of well identification reporting requirements for certain facilities. In addition, the Obama Administration has directed a number of federal agencies to propose new rules to control fugitive emissions of greenhouse gases including methane, and VOCs. For example, in August 2015, the EPA announced proposed rules that would establish new air emission controls for emissions of methane from certain equipment and processes in the oil and natural gas source category, including production, processing, transmission and storage activities. The EPA’s proposed rule package includes first-time standards to address emissions of methane from equipment and processes across the source category, including hydraulically fractured oil and natural gas well completions. The BLM also proposed new rules in January 2016 which seek to limit methane emissions from new and existing oil and gas operations on federal lands. The proposal would limit venting and flaring of gas, impose leak detection and repair requirements on wellsite equipment and compressors, and also require the installation of new controls on pneumatic pumps, and other activities at the wellsite such as downhole well maintenance and liquids unloading and drilling workovers and completions to reduce leaks of methane. Compliance with these proposed rules will require enhanced record-keeping practices, and may require the purchase of new equipment such as optical gas imaging instruments to detect leaks, and increase the frequency of maintenance and repair activities to address emissions leakage. The rules may also require hiring additional personnel to support these activities or the engagement of third party contractors to assist with and verify compliance. These new and proposed rules could result in increased compliance costs on our operations.In addition, the United States Congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, and many states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases primarily through regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and gas processing plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances. The number of allowances available for purchase is reduced each year in an effort to achieve the overall greenhouse gas emission reduction goal.The adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or to comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. Any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the oil and natural gas we produce. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the Earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, floods and other climatic events. Our offshore operations are particularly at risk from severe climatic events. If any such climate changes were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.21Table of ContentsThe enactment of derivatives legislation could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business.The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Act”), enacted on July 21, 2010, established federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as us, that participate in that market. The Act requires the CFTC and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the Act. Although the CFTC has finalized certain regulations, others remain to be finalized or implemented and it is not possible at this time to predict when this will be accomplished.In October 2011, the CFTC issued regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. The initial position limits rule was vacated by the United States District Court for the District of Colombia in September 2012. However, in November 2013, the CFTC proposed new rules that would place limits on positions in certain core futures and equivalent swap contracts for, or linked to, certain physical commodities, subject to exceptions for certain bona fide hedging transactions. As these new position limit rules are not yet final, the impact of those provisions on us is uncertain at this time.The CFTC has designated certain interest rate swaps and credit default swaps for mandatory clearing and the associated rules also will require us, in connection with covered derivative activities, to comply with clearing and trade-execution requirements or to take steps to qualify for an exemption to such requirements. Although we expect to qualify for the end-user exception from the mandatory clearing requirements for swaps entered into to hedge our commercial risks, the application of the mandatory clearing and trade execution requirements to other market participants, such as swap dealers, may change the cost and availability of the swaps that we use for hedging. In addition, certain banking regulators and the CFTC have recently adopted final rules establishing minimum margin requirements for uncleared swaps. Although we expect to qualify for the end-user exception from such margin requirements for swaps entered into to hedge our commercial risks, the application of such requirements to other market participants, such as swap dealers, may change the cost and availability of the swaps that we use for hedging. If any of our swaps do not qualify for the commercial end-user exception, posting of collateral could impact liquidity and reduce cash available to us for capital expenditures, therefore reducing our ability to execute hedges to reduce risk and protect cash flows. The full impact of the Act and related regulatory requirements upon our business will not be known until the regulations are implemented and the market for derivatives contracts has adjusted. The Act and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts, materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, or reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Act and regulations implementing the Act, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the Act and implementing regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial condition and our results of operations.In addition, the European Union and other non-U.S. jurisdictions are implementing regulations with respect to the derivatives market. To the extent we transact with counterparties in foreign jurisdictions, we may become subject to such regulations. At this time, the impact of such regulations is not clear.Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could cause us to incur increased costs and experience additional operating restrictions or delays.Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons, particularly natural gas, from tight formations. The process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into the formation to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. We routinely use hydraulic fracturing in our onshore operations. The process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions. However, the EPA recently asserted federal regulatory authority over hydraulic fracturing involving diesel additives under the SDWA Underground Injection Control Program and issued permitting guidance for such activities in February 2014. In addition, in May 2014, the EPA proposed rules under the Toxic Substances Control Act to require companies to disclose information regarding the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing. Also, the BLM finalized rules in March 2015 that impose new or more stringent standards for performing hydraulic fracturing on federal and American Indian lands. The U.S. District Court of Wyoming has temporarily stayed implementation of this rule. A final decision has not yet been issued. Moreover, the EPA proposed in April 2015 to prohibit the discharge of wastewater from hydraulic fracturing operations to publicly owned wastewater treatment plants.Also, in June 2015, the EPA released its draft report on the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources. The EPA report concluded that hydraulic fracturing activities have not led to widespread, systemic impacts on drinking water 22Table of Contentsresources in the United States, although there are above and below ground mechanisms by which hydraulic fracturing activities have the potential to impact drinking water resources. The draft report is expected to be finalized after a public comment period and a formal review by the EPA’s Science Advisory Board. A number of other federal agencies, including the U.S. Department of Energy, the U.S. Department of the Interior and the White House Council on Environmental Quality, are studying various aspects of hydraulic fracturing. These studies, depending on their findings, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the federal SDWA or other regulatory mechanisms.In addition, from time to time legislation has been introduced before the United States Congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the fracturing process although no actions have been taken to date. Some states have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose more stringent permitting, hydraulic fracturing fluid disclosure, air emission limitations, and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. For example, Pennsylvania, Texas, Colorado and Wyoming have each adopted a variety of well construction, set back and disclosure regulations limiting how fracturing can be performed and requiring various degrees of chemical disclosure. Also, in January 2016, Pennsylvania announced new rules that will require the PADEP to develop a new general permit for oil and gas exploration, development, and production facilities, requiring best available technology for equipment and processes, enhanced record-keeping, and quarterly monitoring inspections for the control of methane emissions. The PADEP also intends to issue similar methane rules for existing sources. These rules have the potential to increase our compliance costs. Moreover, some states and local jurisdictions have taken steps to limit hydraulic fracturing within their borders or ban the practice altogether. If new laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such laws could make it more difficult or costly for us to perform fracturing to stimulate production from tight formations. In addition, if hydraulic fracturing becomes regulated at the federal level as a result of federal legislation or regulatory initiatives by the EPA, our fracturing activities could become subject to additional permitting requirements, attendant permitting delays and potential increases in costs. Restrictions on hydraulic fracturing could impact the timing of production and may also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we are ultimately able to produce from our reserves.Our business could be negatively affected by security threats, including cybersecurity threats, and other disruptions.As an oil and gas producer, we face various security threats, including cybersecurity threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable, threats to the security of our facilities and infrastructure or third party facilities and infrastructure, such as processing plants and pipelines, and threats from terrorist acts. The potential for such security threats has subjected our operations to increased risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business. In particular, the implementation of various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate security threats and to increase security for our information, facilities and infrastructure may result in increased capital and operating costs. Moreover, there can be no assurance that such procedures and controls will be sufficient to prevent security breaches from occurring. If any of these security breaches were to occur, they could lead to losses of sensitive information, critical infrastructure or capabilities essential to the our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Cybersecurity attacks in particular are becoming more sophisticated and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data and systems, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, and corruption of data. These events could damage our reputation and lead to financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.