ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a number of risks including, but not limited to, those described below: Oil and gas price declines and volatility could adversely affect our revenues, cash flows and profitability. Our revenues, cash flows, profitability and future rate of growth depend substantially upon the market prices of oil and natural gas, which fluctuate widely. Factors that can cause this fluctuation include: • relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; • market uncertainty; • the level of consumer product demands; • hurricanes and other weather conditions; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • political and economic conditions in oil producing countries, particularly those in the Middle East, Russia, South America and Africa; • actions by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”); • the foreign supply of oil and natural gas; • the price of oil and gas imports; and • overall domestic and foreign economic conditions. We cannot predict future oil and natural gas prices. At various times, excess domestic and imported supplies have depressed oil and gas prices. Declines in oil and natural gas prices may adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Lower prices may reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically and may also create ceiling test write-downs of our oil and gas properties. Substantially all of our oil and natural gas sales are made in the spot market or pursuant to contracts based on spot market prices, not long-term fixed price contracts. 8 Table of Contents In an attempt to reduce our price risk, we periodically enter into hedging transactions with respect to a portion of our expected future production. We cannot assure you that such transactions will reduce the risk or minimize the effect of any decline in oil or natural gas prices. Any substantial or extended decline in the prices of or demand for oil or natural gas would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to replace production with new reserves. In general, the volume of production from oil and gas properties declines as reserves are depleted. The decline rates depend on reservoir characteristics. Gulf of Mexico reservoirs tend to be recovered quickly through production with associated steep declines, while declines in other regions after initial flush production tend to be relatively low. During 2007, 92% of our production was derived from Gulf of Mexico reservoirs, while the remaining portion of our production was derived from the Rocky Mountain Region which was sold in June of 2007. At December 31, 2007, all of our reserves were derived from Gulf of Mexico reservoirs. Our reserves will decline as they are produced unless we acquire properties with proved reserves or conduct successful development and exploration drilling activities. Our future natural gas and oil production is highly dependent upon our level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves at a unit cost that is sustainable at prevailing commodity prices. Our actual recovery of reserves may substantially differ from our proved reserve estimates. This Form 10-K contains estimates of our proved oil and gas reserves and the estimated future net cash flows from such reserves. These estimates are based upon various assumptions, including assumptions required by the SEC relating to oil and gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. This process requires significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir and is therefore inherently imprecise. Additionally, our interpretations of the rules governing the estimation of proved reserves could differ from the interpretation of staff members of regulatory authorities resulting in estimates that could be challenged by these authorities. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves will most likely vary from those estimated. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves set forth in this document and the information incorporated by reference. Our properties may also be susceptible to hydrocarbon drainage from production by other operators on adjacent properties. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We may not be able to fund our planned capital expenditures. We spend and will continue to spend a substantial amount of capital for the acquisition, exploration, exploitation, development and production of oil and gas reserves. Our capital expenditures, including acquisitions and exclusive of estimated asset retirement costs, were $200.2 million during 2007, $639.2 million during 2006 and $479.8 million during 2005. We have budgeted total capital expenditures in 2008, excluding property acquisitions, asset retirement costs, hurricane related expenditures and capitalized salaries, general and administrative costs and interest to be approximately $395 million. If low oil and natural gas prices, operating difficulties or other factors, many of which are beyond our control, cause our revenues and cash flows from operating activities to decrease, we may be limited in our ability to fund the capital necessary to complete our capital expenditures program. In addition, if our borrowing base under our credit facility is re-determined to a lower amount, this could adversely affect our ability to fund our planned capital expenditures. After utilizing our available sources of financing, we may be forced to raise additional debt or equity proceeds to fund such capital expenditures. We cannot assure you that additional debt or equity financing will be available or cash flows provided by operations will be sufficient to meet these requirements. Our debt level and the covenants in the agreements governing our debt could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. As of February 11, 2008, we had $400 million in outstanding indebtedness. We have a borrowing base under our bank credit facility of $175 million with availability of an additional $122.2 million of borrowings as of February 11, 2008. 9 Table of Contents The terms of the agreements governing our debt impose significant restrictions on our ability to take a number of actions that we may otherwise desire to take, including: • incurring additional debt; • paying dividends on stock, redeeming stock or redeeming subordinated debt; • making investments; • creating liens on our assets; • selling assets; • guaranteeing other indebtedness; • entering into agreements that restrict dividends from our subsidiary to us; • merging, consolidating or transferring all or substantially all of our assets; and • entering into transactions with affiliates. Our level of indebtedness, and the covenants contained in the agreements governing our debt, could have important consequences on our operations, including: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under the indentures or other debt and increasing the risk that we may default on our debt obligations; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operating activities to required payments on debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for working capital, capital expenditures and other general business activities; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general business activities; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • detracting from our ability to successfully withstand a downturn in our business or the economy generally; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage against other less leveraged competitors; and • making us vulnerable to increases in interest rates, because debt under our credit facility and our senior floating rate notes is at variable rates. We may be required to repay all or a portion of our debt on an accelerated basis in certain circumstances. If we fail to comply with the covenants and other restrictions in the agreements governing our debt, it could lead to an event of default and the acceleration of our repayment of outstanding debt. Our ability to comply with these covenants and other restrictions may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic and financial conditions. Our borrowing base under the credit facility, which is re-determined periodically, is based on an amount established by the bank group after its evaluation of our proved oil and gas reserve values. Upon a re-determination, if borrowings in excess of the revised borrowing capacity were outstanding, we could be forced to repay a portion of our bank debt. We may not have sufficient funds to make such repayments. If we are unable to repay our debt out of cash on hand, we could attempt to refinance such debt, sell assets or repay such debt with the proceeds from an equity offering. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities to pay the interest on our debt or that future borrowings, equity financings or proceeds from the sale of assets will be available to pay or refinance such debt. The terms of our debt, including our credit facility and our indentures, may also prohibit us from taking such actions. Factors that will affect our ability to raise cash through an offering of our capital stock, a refinancing of our debt or a sale of assets include financial market conditions and our market value and operating performance at the time of such offering or other financing. We cannot assure you that any such offering, refinancing or sale of assets can be successfully completed. We have experienced significant shut-ins and losses of production due to the effects of hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico. Approximately 92% of our production during 2007 was associated with our Gulf Coast Basin properties. All of our estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2007 were derived from Gulf Coast Basin reservoirs. Accordingly, if the level of production from these properties substantially declines, it could have a material adverse effect on our overall production level and our revenue. We are particularly vulnerable to significant risk from hurricanes and tropical storms. During 2004, we experienced an approximate 7.0 Bcfe deferral of production due to Hurricane Ivan. During 2007, 2006 and 2005, we experienced approximate deferrals of 3.6 Bcfe, 15.6 Bcfe and 16.4 Bcfe of production, respectively, due to Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. We are unable to predict what impact future hurricanes and tropical storms might have on our future results of operations and production. 10 Table of Contents The marketability of our production depends mostly upon the availability, proximity and capacity of oil and natural gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities. The marketability of our production depends upon the availability, proximity, operation and capacity of oil and natural gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities. The unavailability or lack of capacity of these systems and facilities could result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. Federal, state and local regulation of oil and gas production and transportation, general economic conditions and changes in supply and demand could adversely affect our ability to produce and market our oil and natural gas. If market factors changed dramatically, the financial impact on us could be substantial. The availability of markets and the volatility of product prices are beyond our control and represent a significant risk. We may not receive payment for a portion of our future production. We may not receive payment for a portion of our future production. We have attempted to diversify our sales and obtain credit protections such as parental guarantees from certain of our purchasers. We are unable to predict, however, what impact the financial difficulties of certain purchasers may have on our future results of operations and liquidity. Lower oil and gas prices and other factors may cause us to record ceiling test write-downs. We use the full cost method of accounting for our oil and gas operations. Accordingly, we capitalize the cost to acquire, explore for and develop oil and gas properties. Under the full cost method of accounting, we compare, at the end of each financial reporting period for each cost center, the present value of estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves (based on period-end hedge adjusted commodity prices and excluding cash flows related to estimated abandonment costs), to the net capitalized costs of proved oil and gas properties, net of related deferred taxes. We refer to this comparison as a “ceiling test.” If the net capitalized costs of proved oil and gas properties exceed the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves, we are required to write-down the value of our oil and gas properties to the value of the discounted cash flows. We recorded a write-down in 2007 and have recorded write-downs in past years. A write-down of oil and gas properties does not impact cash flow from operating activities, but does reduce net income. The risk that we will be required to write down the carrying value of oil and gas properties increases when oil and natural gas prices are low or volatile. In addition, write-downs may occur if we experience substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves or our undeveloped property values, or if estimated future development costs increase. We cannot assure you that we will not experience additional ceiling test write-downs in the future. We may not be able to obtain adequate financing to execute our operating strategy. We have historically addressed our short and long-term liquidity needs through the use of bank credit facilities, the issuance of debt and equity securities and the use of cash flow provided by operating activities. We continue to examine the following alternative sources of capital: • bank borrowings or the issuance of debt securities; • the issuance of common stock, preferred stock or other equity securities; • joint venture financing; and • production payments. The availability of these sources of capital will depend upon a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include general economic and financial market conditions, oil and natural gas prices and our market value and operating performance. We may be unable to fully execute our operating strategy if we cannot obtain capital from these sources. There are uncertainties in successfully integrating our acquisitions. Integrating acquired businesses and properties involves a number of special risks. These risks include the possibility that management may be distracted from regular business concerns by the need to integrate operations and that unforeseen difficulties can arise in integrating operations and systems and in retaining and assimilating employees. Any of these or other similar risks could lead to potential adverse short-term or long-term effects on our operating results. 11 Table of Contents Our operations are subject to numerous risks of oil and gas drilling and production activities. Oil and gas drilling and production activities are subject to numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or natural gas reservoirs will be found. The cost of drilling and completing wells is often uncertain. Oil and gas drilling and production activities may be shortened, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • unexpected drilling conditions; • pressure or irregularities in formations; • equipment failures or accidents; • hurricanes and other weather conditions; • shortages in experienced labor; and • shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment. The prevailing prices of oil and natural gas also affect the cost of and the demand for drilling rigs, production equipment and related services. We cannot assure you that the new wells we drill will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment. Drilling for oil and natural gas may be unprofitable. Drilling activities can result in dry wells and wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net revenue after operating and other costs to recoup drilling costs. Our industry experiences numerous operating risks. The exploration, development and production of oil and gas properties involves a variety of operating risks including the risk of fire, explosions, blowouts, pipe failure, abnormally pressured formations and environmental hazards. Environmental hazards include oil spills, gas leaks, pipeline ruptures or discharges of toxic gases. If any of these industry-operating risks occur, we could have substantial losses. Substantial losses may be caused by injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution or other environmental damage, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties and suspension of operations. Additionally, our offshore operations are subject to the additional hazards of marine operations, such as capsizing, collision and adverse weather and sea conditions. In accordance with industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of the risks described above. We have begun to explore for natural gas and oil in the deep waters of the GOM (water depths greater than 2,000 feet) where operations are more difficult and more expensive than in shallower waters. Our deep water drilling and operations require the application of recently developed technologies that involve a higher risk of mechanical failure. The deep waters of the GOM often lack the physical infrastructure and availability of services present in the shallower waters. As a result, deep water operations may require a significant amount of time between a discovery and the time that we can market the oil and gas, increasing the risks involved with these operations. We maintain insurance of various types to cover our operations, including maritime employer’s liability and comprehensive general liability. Coverage amounts are provided by primary liability policies. In addition, we maintain operator’s extra expense insurance, which provides coverage for the care, custody and control of wells drilled and/or completed plus re-drill and pollution coverage. The exact amount of coverage for each well is dependent upon its depth and location. We experienced Gulf of Mexico production interruption in 2005, 2006 and 2007 from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita for which we do not have any loss of production insurance. We cannot assure you that our insurance will be adequate to cover losses or liabilities. Also, we cannot predict the continued availability of insurance at premium levels that justify its purchase. No assurance can be given that we will be able to maintain insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable. The occurrence of a significant event, not fully insured or indemnified against, could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and operations. Terrorist attacks aimed at our facilities could adversely affect our business. The U.S. government has issued warnings that U.S. energy assets may be the future targets of terrorist organizations. These developments have subjected our operations to increased risks. Any future terrorist attack at our facilities, or those of our purchasers, could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and operations. 12 Table of Contents Competition within our industry may adversely affect our operations. Competition in the Gulf Coast Basin, the Rocky Mountain Region and Appalachia is intense, particularly with respect to the acquisition of producing properties and undeveloped acreage. We compete with major oil and gas companies and other independent producers of varying sizes, all of which are engaged in the acquisition of properties and the exploration and development of such properties. Many of our competitors have financial resources and exploration and development budgets that are substantially greater than ours, which may adversely affect our ability to compete. Our oil and gas operations are subject to various U.S. federal, state and local governmental regulations that materially affect our operations. Our oil and gas operations are subject to various U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations. These laws and regulations may be changed in response to economic or political conditions. Regulated matters include: permits for exploration, development and production operations; limitations on our drilling activities in environmentally sensitive areas, such as wetlands and restrictions on the way we can release materials into the environment; bonds or other financial responsibility requirements to cover drilling contingencies and well plugging and abandonment costs; reports concerning operations, the spacing of wells and unitization and pooling of properties; and taxation. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations can result in the assessment of administrative, civil, or criminal penalties, the issuance of remedial obligations, and the imposition of injunctions limiting or prohibiting certain of our operations. At various times, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on oil and gas production. In order to conserve supplies of oil and gas, these agencies have restricted the rates of flow of oil and gas wells below actual production capacity. In addition, the OPA requires operators of offshore facilities such as us to prove that they have the financial capability to respond to costs that may be incurred in connection with potential oil spills. Under OPA and other federal and state environmental statutes like the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) and Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), owners and operators of certain defined onshore and offshore facilities are strictly liable for spills of oil and other regulated substances, subject to certain limitations. Consequently, a substantial spill from one of our facilities subject to laws such as OPA, CERCLA and RCRA could require the expenditure of additional, and potentially significant, amounts of capital, or could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. Federal, state and local laws regulate production, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of oil and gas, by-products from oil and gas and other substances, and materials produced or used in connection with oil and gas operations. We cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their impact on our earnings, operations or competitive position. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to operate. Our operations are dependent upon key management and technical personnel. We cannot assure you that individuals will remain with us for the immediate or foreseeable future. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of these individuals could have an adverse effect on us. Hedging transactions may limit our potential gains or become ineffective. In order to manage our exposure to price risks in the marketing of our oil and natural gas, we periodically enter into oil and gas price hedging arrangements with respect to a portion of our expected production. Our hedging policy provides that, without prior approval of our board of directors, generally not more than 50% of our estimated production quantities may be hedged. These arrangements may include futures contracts on the New York Mercantile Exchange (“NYMEX”). While intended to reduce the effects of volatile oil and gas prices, such transactions, depending on the hedging instrument used, may limit our potential gains if oil and gas prices were to rise substantially over the price established by the hedge. In addition, such transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: • our production is less than expected or is shut-in for extended periods due to hurricanes or other factors; • there is a widening of price differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery point assumed in the hedge arrangement; • the counterparties to our futures contracts fail to perform the contracts; • a sudden, unexpected event materially impacts oil or natural gas prices; or • we are unable to market our production in a manner contemplated when entering into the hedge contract. 13 Table of Contents We do not pay dividends. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and have no intention to do so in the near future. The restrictions on our present or future ability to pay dividends are included in the provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law and in certain restrictive provisions in the indenture executed in connection with our 81/4% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2011 and 63/4% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014. In addition, we have entered into a credit facility that contains provisions that may have the effect of limiting or prohibiting the payment of dividends. Our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws have provisions that discourage corporate takeovers and could prevent stockholders from realizing a premium on their investment. Certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws and shareholders’ rights plan and the provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may encourage persons considering unsolicited tender offers or other unilateral takeover proposals to negotiate with our board of directors rather than pursue non-negotiated takeover attempts. Our Bylaws currently provide for a classified board of directors, who are elected by plurality voting. The board of directors will propose and recommend that the stockholders approve amending the Bylaws to declassify the board at the next annual meeting. Also, our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and to set the rights, preferences and other designations, including voting rights of those shares, as the board may determine. Additional provisions include restrictions on business combinations and the availability of authorized but unissued common stock. These provisions, alone or in combination with each other and with the rights plan described below, may discourage transactions involving actual or potential changes of control, including transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices to stockholders for their common stock. Our board of directors recently considered a policy to elect directors by majority vote, but a decision was made to continue with plurality voting at this time. During 1998, our board of directors adopted a shareholder rights agreement, pursuant to which uncertificated stock purchase rights were distributed to our stockholders at a rate of one right for each share of common stock held of record as of October 26, 1998. The rights plan is designed to enhance the board’s ability to prevent an acquirer from depriving stockholders of the long-term value of their investment and to protect stockholders against attempts to acquire us by means of unfair or abusive takeover tactics. However, the existence of the rights plan may impede a takeover not supported by our board, including a takeover that may be desired by a majority of our stockholders or involving a premium over the prevailing stock price. This shareholder rights agreement expires on September 30, 2008. Resolution of litigation could materially affect our financial position and results of operations. We have been named as a defendant in certain lawsuits (See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings”). In some of these suits, our liability for potential loss upon resolution may be mitigated by insurance coverage. To the extent that potential exposure to liability is not covered by insurance or insurance coverage is inadequate, we could incur losses that could be material to our financial position or results of operations in future periods. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 