Risk Factors Our financial strength ratings could be downgraded. Various Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations (“NRSROs”) publish financial strength ratings as their opinion of an insurance company’s creditworthiness and ability to meet policyholder and contractholder obligations. As with other rated companies, our ratings could be downgraded at any time and without any notices by any NRSRO. A downgrade or an announced potential downgrade of our financial strength ratings could have multiple adverse effects on us including: • reducing new sales of insurance and annuity products or increasing the number or amount of surrenders and withdrawals; • affecting our relationships with our sales force, independent sales intermediaries and credit counterparties; and • affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance at reasonable prices. It is likely that the NRSROs will continue to apply a high level of scrutiny to financial institutions, including us and our competitors, and may adjust the capital, risk management and other requirements employed in the NRSRO models for maintenance of certain ratings levels. We are controlled by a small number of stockholders. As of December 31, 2015, the Moody Foundation, a charitable trust controlled by Robert L. Moody, Sr. and two of his children, beneficially owned approximately 22.8% of our common stock. In addition, Moody National Bank, of which Robert L. Moody, Sr. is Chairman of the Board, in its capacity as trustee or agent of various accounts, had the power to vote approximately 45.4% of our common stock as of such date. As a result, subject to applicable legal and regulatory requirements, these stockholders have the ability to exercise a controlling influence over matters submitted for stockholder approval, including the composition of our Board of Directors, and through the Board of Directors any determination with respect to our business direction and policies. This concentration of voting power could deter a change of control or other business combination that might be beneficial or preferable to other stockholders. It may also adversely affect the trading price of our common stock if controlling stockholders sell a significant number of shares or if investors perceive disadvantages in owning stock in a company controlled by a small number of stockholders. See also Part II, Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, for additional details regarding certain risks that we face. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements 