ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The most significant risks and uncertainties that we face are described below. Any of these risks and uncertainties, individually or in the aggregate, could materially and adversely impair our business, financial condition or results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Economic Risk Factors Economic, investment market and political factors can adversely affect our business and financial results. Our results of operations are materially affected by economic conditions in the U.S. and elsewhere. Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, energy costs, geopolitical issues, national debt, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, concerns over inflation or deflation, the continuing threat of terrorism, the potential for other hostilities, tax and fiscal policy, and the potential for downgrades of sovereign debt all affect the business and economic environment, financial markets and, ultimately, the profitability of our business. Similarly, uncertainty associated with the absence of cohesive bipartisan long-term government policy related to these or similar factors, or uncertainty arising from new government policies, may negatively impact our business. Factors such as sustained high unemployment, stagnant family income, low consumer confidence and spending, and increased student and consumer debt can adversely affect the demand for our products. For example, difficult credit conditions may adversely affect purchases of credit-related insurance products. In addition, our policyholders may choose to defer or stop paying insurance premiums, resulting in higher lapses or surrenders of policies. In particular, our distribution channels that serve middle-income markets face competition from alternative uses of the customer’s disposable income. Even in the absence of an economic downturn, sales of our products and our investment returns are sensitive to market fluctuations and general economic and political conditions. Interest rates could remain persistently low, or significant changes in interest rates could occur. Some of our products, principally interest-sensitive life insurance and fixed annuities, expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates may reduce our “spread,” or the difference between the amounts we earn on investment and the amount we must pay under our contracts. Persistently low (or lower) interest rates, compound this spread compression. When market interest rates decrease or remain at relatively low levels, proceeds from maturing or prepaid or sold bonds may be reinvested at lower yields, reducing investment margin. Lower product crediting rates can offset decreases in investment yield; however, these changes may be timed differently and could be limited by market conditions and regulatory or contractual minimum rate guarantees. Furthermore, decreases in the rates offered on products could make them less attractive, leading to lower sales and increased surrenders and withdrawals. Non-parallel shifts in interest rates, such as increases in short-term rates without accompanying increases in medium and long-term rates, can influence customer demand for our products, which could impact the level and profitability of new investments by customers. Increases in market interest rates can also have negative effects. For example, increasing rates on other insurance or investment products offered to our customers by competitors can lead to higher surrenders at a time when fixed maturity investment asset values are lower. For certain products, principally fixed annuity and interest-sensitive life products, the earned rate on assets could lag behind rising market yields. We may react to market conditions by increasing crediting rates, which could narrow spreads. While we use ALM processes to mitigate the effect on our spreads of changes in interest rates, they may not be fully effective. Additionally, our ALM incorporates assumptions about the relationship between short-term and long-term interest rates (i.e., the slope of the yield curve) and relationships between risk-adjusted and risk-free interest rates, market liquidity, and other factors. The effectiveness of our ALM may be negatively affected whenever actual results differ from these assumptions. Operational Risk Factors Our actual experience could differ from our estimates and assumptions regarding risk, the fair value and future performance of our investments, and the realization of deferred tax assets. Our product pricing includes long-term assumptions regarding investment returns, mortality, morbidity (the rate of incidence of illness), persistency (the rate at which our policies remain in-force), our operating expenses, and other underwriting assumptions. Our profitability substantially depends on our actual experience being consistent with these assumptions. If we fail to appropriately price our insured risks, or if our claims experience is more severe than our underlying assumptions, our earnings and financial condition could be negatively affected. Conversely, significantly overpriced risks could negatively impact new business growth and retention of existing business. 12 Table of Contents Similarly, our loss reserves are an estimate of amounts needed to pay and administer incurred claims and, as such, are inherently uncertain; they do not and cannot represent an exact measure of liability. Inflationary events, especially events outside of historical norms, or regulatory changes that affect the assumptions underlying our estimates can cause variability. For example, rising medical costs require us to make higher payouts in connection with claims of bodily injury under our property and casualty policies and health insurance claims generally. Likewise, increases in costs for auto parts and repair services, construction costs, and commodities result in higher losses for property damage claims. Accordingly, our loss reserves could prove to be inadequate to cover our actual losses and related expenses. Changes in these estimates are included in our results of operations during the period in which the changes are made. With respect to our investments, the determination of estimates for allowances and impairments varies by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Historical trends and assumed changes may not be indicative of future impairments or allowances. See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Practices, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further description of our evaluation of impairments. Our assumption regarding the future realization of the deferred tax assets is dependent upon estimating the generation of sufficient future taxable income, including capital gains. If future events differ from our current forecasts and it is determined that the deferred tax assets cannot be realized, a deferred tax valuation allowance must be established, with a corresponding charge to net income. Our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk. Our performance is dependent on our ability to manage operational, financial, legal, and regulatory risks from our day-to-day business activities, many of which are complex. We have devoted and expect to continue devoting resources to develop risk management policies and procedures, including monitoring and reporting programs, reinsurance structures and hedging transactions that utilize derivative financial instruments. Nonetheless, these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. Developing an effective strategy for dealing with these risks is complex, and no strategy can completely insulate us from the risks we face. In addition, we could experience risks that we failed to identify, or risks of a magnitude greater than expected, including those arising from failures in processes, procedures or systems implemented by us or a failure on the part of employees or third parties upon whom we rely in this regard. Many of our methods for managing risks and exposures are based upon the use of observed historical market behavior or statistics premised on historical models. These methods may not accurately predict future exposures, which could be greater than historical measures indicate. Other risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information that is publicly available or otherwise accessible regarding markets, customers, catastrophe occurrence, or other matters. This information may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or available. See Part II, Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, for additional details. In addition, our estimates and assumptions regarding any of our risk management strategies may fail to correspond to our actual long-term exposure with respect to identified risks. Interest rate fluctuations and other events may require us to accelerate the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs (“DAC”). When interest rates rise, life and annuity surrenders and withdrawals may increase as policyholders seek to buy products with higher or perceived higher returns, requiring us to accelerate the amortization of DAC. To the extent such amortization exceeds any surrender or other charges earned as income upon surrender and withdrawal, our results of operations could be negatively affected. DAC for both insurance and investment products is reviewed for recoverability, which involves significant management judgment in estimating the future profitability of current business. Typically, estimated lower levels of profitability accelerate DAC amortization, and higher levels of profitability have the opposite effect. If the actual emergence of future profitability were to be substantially lower than estimated, we could be required to accelerate DAC amortization, and such acceleration could adversely affect our results of operations. See also Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Estimates, and Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Date—Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Practices, and Note 10, Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 13 Table of Contents If we are unable to maintain the availability of our systems and safeguard the security of our data, our ability to conduct our business may be compromised, and our reputation may be harmed. We rely on the availability, reliability, and security of our information-processing infrastructure, system platforms, and business applications to store, process, retrieve, and evaluate customer and company information. In certain lines of our business, our information technology and telecommunication systems interface with and rely upon third-party services. These business lines are highly dependent on our ability to access these external services to perform necessary business functions, such as acquiring new business, managing existing business, paying claims, and ensuring timely and accurate financial reporting. Systems failures, extended outages, or damage or destruction to such systems, whether caused by intentional or unintentional acts or events, and our not being able to react quickly to such conditions could compromise our ability to timely perform critical functions. Therefore, we have implemented various strategies and ongoing processes in an effort to ensure our ability to support, expand and continually update our infrastructure and systems to keep up with business requirements and changes, whether regulatory, internal or market driven. If these systems were inaccessible or inoperable for an extended period of time due to natural or man-made disasters, or if they fail to function effectively or as designed, the resulting disruptions may impede or interrupt our business operations. To mitigate these risks we have business continuity and recovery plans to help ensure continued operations should an event occur. We cannot be certain that such plans will address every event or could be implemented successfully under all circumstances. We receive and transmit confidential data with and among customers, agents, financial institutions and selected third party vendors and service providers in the normal course of business. Despite our implementation of secure transmission techniques, internal data security measures, monitoring tools and best practices, our systems are vulnerable to security threats and breach attempts from both external and internal sources. A breach could result in access, viewing, misappropriation, altering or deleting information in our systems or in the systems of our business associates, including personal customer information, customer financial information and our proprietary business information. We rely on several layers of data protection technologies and designs to provide security and authentication capabilities to protect this information. We have invested significant time and resources to prevent and mitigate data security risks; however, we cannot be certain that our efforts will be effective considering increasingly advanced persistent threat techniques and complexity, and the evolving sophistication of cyber-attacks. Any significant disruption, security breach or unauthorized disclosure, whether by us or our business associates, resulting in misappropriation of our proprietary information or customers’ personal data could cause significant damage to our business operations and reputation. In addition, it could result in substantial costs and consequences, including repairing systems, increased security costs, customer notifications, lost revenues, litigation, regulatory action, fines and penalties, and reputational damage. Employee and agent error and misconduct may be difficult to detect and prevent and may result in significant losses. Losses may result from, among other things, fraud, errors, failure to document transactions properly, failure to obtain proper internal authorization, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements. It is not always possible to deter or prevent such misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Our business operations depend on our ability to appropriately execute and administer our policies and claims. Our primary business is writing and servicing life, annuity, property and casualty, and health insurance for individuals, families and commercial business. Any problems or discrepancies that arise in our pricing, underwriting, billing, processing, claims handling or other practices, whether as a result of employee error, vendor error, or technological problems, could have a negative effect on operations and reputation, particularly if such problems or discrepancies are replicated through multiple policies. 14 Table of Contents Investment and Financial Markets Risk Factors Fluctuations in the markets for fixed maturity securities, equity securities, and commercial real estate could adversely affect the valuation of our investment portfolio and our net investment income and could adversely affect the funding status of our sponsored pension plans. Investment returns are an important part of our overall profitability. Our investment portfolio is subject to market risks, such as interest rate risk, market volatility, and deterioration in the credit of companies or governmental entities in which we have invested, and we could incur significant losses, particularly in the event of extreme market events. Significant volatility in the markets can cause changes in interest rates and declines in equity prices, which individually or in aggregate can affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows. When interest rates rise, the value of our investment portfolio may decline due to decreases in the fair value of our fixed maturity securities. Generally, we expect to hold our fixed maturity investments to maturity, including those that have declined in value. Our intent can change, however, due to financial market fluctuations, changes in our investment strategy, or changes in our evaluation of an issuer’s financial condition and prospects. In a declining interest rate environment, prepayments and redemptions affecting our investment securities and mortgage loan investments may increase as issuers and borrowers seek to refinance at a lower rate. The decline in market rates could reduce our investment income as new funds are invested at lower yields. The concentration of our investment portfolios in any particular industry, group of related industries, or geographic sector could adversely affect us. While we seek to mitigate this risk by having a broadly diversified portfolio, events or developments that have a negative impact on any particular industry, group of related industries, or geographic region may have a disproportionate adverse effect on our investment portfolios to the extent that the portfolios are concentrated rather than diversified. Many companies issued bonds or incurred other debt above historic norms during the recent period of low interest rates, which may reduce below historic norms the amount of new debt insurance in the near future. This imbalance may make it more difficult to maintain a well-diversified portfolio, which may increase our investment and credit risk. Deterioration in the economy or deterioration in the commercial real estate market could adversely affect our investments in commercial real estate, including our mortgage loans. Our mortgage loan investments are principally collateralized by commercial properties. A significant increase in interest rates may also make it more difficult for commercial property owners to refinance existing mortgages as they are scheduled to mature, making repayment of balloon payments to us more difficult. A significant increase in the default rate of our mortgage loan investments could have a material adverse effect on us. Our estimates of liabilities and expenses for pension and other postretirement benefits incorporate assumptions regarding the rate used to discount our estimated future liability and the long-term rate of return on plan assets. Declines in the discount rate or the rate of return on plan assets, both of which are influenced by potential investment returns, could increase our required cash contributions or pension-related expenses in future periods. Some of our investments are relatively illiquid. Our investments in privately placed securities, mortgage loans, and real estate, including real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership interests, are relatively illiquid. If we require significant amounts of cash in excess of ordinary course cash requirements on a short notice it may be difficult or not possible to monetize these investments in an orderly manner, and we may be forced to sell them for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize. A decline in equity markets or an increase in volatility in the equity markets may adversely affect sales and/or yields of our investment products. Significant downturns and volatility in the equity markets could adversely affect the profitability of our investment products in multiple ways. Market downturns and volatility may discourage new purchases of these products and may cause some of our existing customers to withdraw cash values or reduce investments in such products that have returns linked to the performance of the equity market, in turn reducing our fee revenues from these products. We provide certain guarantees within some products that protect policyholders against significant downturns in the equity markets. These guarantees may be more costly than expected in volatile or declining equity market conditions, which could cause us to increase our liabilities for future policy benefits, negatively affecting our earnings. 15 Table of Contents Catastrophic Event Risk Factors We may incur significant losses resulting from catastrophic events. Our property and casualty operations are exposed to catastrophes caused by natural events, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, wildfires, droughts, earthquakes, snow, hail and windstorms, and manmade events, such as terrorism, riots, hazardous material releases, or utility outages. Our life and health insurance operations are exposed to the risk of catastrophic mortality or illness, such as a pandemic, an outbreak of an easily communicable disease, or another event that causes a large number of deaths or high morbidity. We cannot accurately predict the likelihood, timing or severity of catastrophe events, or the number and type of catastrophe events that will affect us. While we anticipate and plan for catastrophe losses, our operating results may vary significantly from one period to the next. The extent of our losses in connection with catastrophic events is a function of the severity of the event and the amount of policyholder exposure in the affected area. Where we have geographic concentrations of policyholders, a single catastrophe (such as an earthquake) or a destructive weather event, may have a significant impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the effectiveness of external parties, including governmental and non-governmental organizations, in combating the effects of such a catastrophe could impact our loss experience. In addition, state regulators responsible for insurance regulation have the ability to impose claim settlement practices or suspend rules we may have expected to mitigate our losses and effectively or efficiently manage claims. Some scientists believe that in recent years, climate change has added to the unpredictability, severity and frequency of extreme weather and loss events such as forest fires. To the extent climate change increases the frequency and severity of such events, we may face increased claims. In response to this belief, a number of legal and regulatory measures as well as social initiatives have been introduced in an effort to reduce greenhouse gas and other carbon emissions, which may be chief contributors to global climate change. We cannot predict how legal, regulatory and social responses to concerns about global climate change will impact our business. The occurrence of events that are unanticipated in our business continuity and disaster recovery planning could impair our ability to conduct business effectively. Our corporate headquarters is located in Galveston, Texas, on the coast of the Gulf of Mexico and in the past has been impacted by hurricanes. Our expanded operations in League City, Texas are designed to support our operations and service our policyholders in the event of a hurricane or other natural disaster affecting Galveston. The primary offices of our property and casualty insurance companies are located in Springfield, Missouri and Glenmont, New York. These offices help to insulate our property and casualty operations from coastal catastrophes. There is no assurance, however, our off-site disaster recovery systems and business continuity plans for these locations will prove successful. The severity, timing, duration or extent of an event may be unanticipated by our planning, and the event could have an adverse impact on our ability to conduct business, particularly if those events affect our computer-based data processing, transmission, storage and retrieval systems. In the event that a significant number of our managers, employees, or agents were unavailable following such a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct our business could be compromised. Marketplace Risk Factors Our future results are dependent in part on our ability to successfully operate in insurance and annuity industries that are highly competitive. Product development and life-cycles have shortened in many product segments, leading to more intense competition with respect to product features. In addition, many of our competitors have well-established national reputations and market similar products. Competition for customers and agents has led to increased marketing and advertising by our competitors, varied agent compensation structures, as well as the introduction of new insurance products and aggressive pricing. 16 Table of Contents In particular, our Medicare Supplement business is subject to intense price competition, which could negatively impact future sales of these products and affect our ability to offer this product. In recent years, price competition in the traditional Medicare supplement market has been significant, characterized by some insurers who have been willing to earn what we estimate to be very small profit margins or to underprice new sales in order to gain market share. We have elected not to underprice new sales. Instead we attempted to address this by introducing innovative products in several markets where allowed. We believe this action will help distinguish us from our competitors. We also compete for customers’ funds with a variety of investment products offered by financial services companies other than insurance companies, such as banks, investment advisors, mutual fund companies and other financial institutions. If we cannot effectively respond to increased competition for the business of our current and prospective customers, we may not be able to grow our business or we may lose market share. In addition, if we fail to maintain our discipline in pricing and underwriting in the face of this competition, our underwriting profits may be adversely affected. We may be unable to attract and retain sales representatives and third-party independent agents for our products. Strong competition exists among insurers for producers with demonstrated ability. We compete with other insurers for producers primarily on the basis of our financial position, reputation, stable ownership, support services, compensation, product features and pricing. We may be unable to compete with insurers that adopt more aggressive pricing or compensation, that offer a broader array of products, that offer policies similar to ours at lower prices or as part of a package of products, or that have extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Our Medicare supplement business could be negatively affected by alternative healthcare providers or changes in federal healthcare policy. The Medicare supplement business is impacted by market trends in the senior-aged healthcare industry that provide alternatives to traditional Medicare, such as health maintenance organizations and other managed care or private plans. The success of these alternative healthcare solutions for seniors could negatively affect the sales and premium growth of traditional Medicare Supplement insurance and could impact our ability to offer such products. In addition, because of increasing medical cost inflation and concerns about the U.S. fiscal policy and the solvency of the Medicare program, Congress could make changes or cuts to the Medicare program in the future. The nature and timing of these changes and cuts cannot be predicted and could adversely impact our Medicare supplement business. We are subject to various conditions and requirements of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 (“the Healthcare Act”). The Healthcare Act makes significant changes to the regulation of health insurance and may affect us in various ways. The Healthcare Act may affect the small blocks of business we have offered or acquired over the years that is, or is deemed to be, health insurance. The Healthcare Act may also influence the design of products sold by our Health segment, which may influence consumer acceptance of such products and the cost of monitoring compliance with the Healthcare Act. The Healthcare Act may also affect the benefit plans we sponsor for employees or retirees and their dependents, our expense to provide such benefits, our tax liabilities in connection with the provision of such benefits, and our ability to attract or retain employees. In addition, we may be subject to regulations, guidance or determinations emanating from the various regulatory authorities authorized under the Healthcare Act. We cannot predict the effect that the Healthcare Act, or any regulatory pronouncement made thereunder, will have on our results of operations or financial condition. Litigation and Regulation Risk Factors Litigation and regulatory investigations may result in significant financial losses and harm our reputation. In connection with our insurance operations, plaintiffs’ lawyers may bring lawsuits, including class actions, alleging, among other things, issues relating to sales or underwriting practices, agent misconduct, product design, product disclosure, product administration, fees charged, denial or delay of benefits, product suitability, claim and refund practices, and breaches of duties to customers. Plaintiffs in such lawsuits may seek very large or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages. The damages claimed and the amount of any probable and estimable liability, if any, may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. Even when successful in the defense of such actions, we could incur significant attorneys’ fees, direct litigation costs and substantial amounts of management time that otherwise would be devoted to our business. Note 19, Commitments and Contingencies, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contains a discussion of certain pending and ongoing litigation. 17 Table of Contents In addition, the insurance industry is the focus of increased regulatory scrutiny as various state and federal government agencies, including state attorneys general and comptrollers, conduct inquiries and investigations into the products and practices of the financial services industries. These lines of inquiry and investigation are broad and unpredictable and may raise issues not yet identified, as well as focusing on issues such as sales and marketing practices, suitability, pricing and fees, product disclosure, and unclaimed property policies and processes. Such investigations could result in new legal actions against us and industry-wide regulations that could adversely affect us. We are subject to extensive regulation, and potential further restrictive regulation may increase our operating costs and limit our growth. Our insurance companies are subject to extensive insurance laws and regulations, most of which are designed to protect the interests of policyholders rather than the Company or its stockholders. Such regulation varies, but typically has its source in state statutes that delegate regulatory and supervisory powers to a state insurance official. This regulation and supervision affects nearly every aspect of our insurance business. We are also subject to additional laws and regulations administered and enforced by a number of different governmental authorities, including state securities administrators, the SEC, the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”), FINRA, the U.S. Department of Justice, the U.S. Department of Labor, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, and state attorneys general, each of which exercises a degree of interpretive latitude. Consequently, we are subject to the risk that compliance with any particular regulator or enforcement authority’s interpretation of a legal issue may not result in compliance with another regulator or enforcement authority’s interpretation of the same issue. In addition, there is risk that any particular regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation of a legal issue may change over time to our detriment, or that changes in the overall legal environment may cause us to change our views regarding the actions we need to take from a legal risk management perspective, thus necessitating changes to our practices that may, in some cases, limit our ability to grow and improve our profitability. Anticipating these changes and the effect they may have on our business is inherently uncertain and difficult, and there can be no assurance that we will not encounter unexpected changes in the future. Significant regulatory developments or actions against us could have material adverse financial effects, cause significant harm to our reputation, or harm our business prospects. Among other things, we could be fined, prohibited from engaging in some or all of our business activities, or made subject to limitations or conditions on our business activities. The laws and regulations applicable to us are complex and subject to change, and compliance is time consuming and personnel-intensive. Changes in these laws and regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing business. In addition, with respect to our property and casualty and health business, state departments of insurance regulate and approve underwriting practices and rate changes. Obtaining timely rate increases is of great importance when necessary to match rate to risk. Any delay in such regulatory approvals could adversely affect our profitability. 18 Table of Contents As insurance industry practices and legal, judicial, social, and other conditions outside of our control change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These changes may include modifications to long established business practice or the interpretation of how policy contract provisions may be applied, which may adversely affect us by extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or increasing the type, number, or size of claims. For example, the National Conference of Insurance Legislators has adopted the Model Unclaimed Life Insurance Benefits Act, which would impose new requirements on insurers to periodically compare their life insurance and annuity contracts and retained asset accounts against the U.S. Social Security Administration’s Death Master File, investigate any potential matches, determine whether benefits are payable, and attempt to locate beneficiaries. Several states have adopted legislation similar to such model act, and more states could do so. Moreover, a number of state treasurers and comptrollers have audited, or contracted with third parties to audit, life insurance companies, including us and some of our subsidiaries, for compliance with unclaimed property laws. The focus of such audits has been to determine whether any unpaid benefits, proceeds or other payments under life insurance policies and annuity contracts should be treated as unclaimed property that should be escheated to the state. Such audits have also sought to identify unreported deaths of insureds. It is possible that such audits and/or the enactment of state legislation regarding unclaimed life insurance benefits may result in additional payments to beneficiaries, additional escheatment of funds deemed abandoned under state laws, administrative penalties, interest, and changes to our procedures for the identification and escheatment of abandoned property, all or any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. Given the legal and regulatory uncertainty in this area, it is also possible that we and other life insurers could be subject to claims, regulatory actions and litigation resulting in substantial payments or costs. We have modified our claims process in our life segment to stay current with emerging trends In addition to state regulatory changes, the enactment of Dodd-Frank provides for enhanced federal oversight of the financial services industry through multiple initiatives. Certain provisions of Dodd-Frank are or may become applicable to us, our competitors, or certain entities with which we do business. For example, Dodd-Frank established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”), which supervises and regulates institutions providing certain financial products and services to consumers. Although the consumer financial services to which this legislation applies exclude the kinds of insurance business in which we engage, it is possible that regulations issued by the CFPB may extend, or be interpreted to extend, its authority more broadly to cover certain insurance products, particularly when sold by covered financial institutions, which would adversely affect sales of such products. In addition, the Volcker Rule implemented pursuant to Dodd-Frank may adversely impact the pricing and liquidity of certain securities in which we invest as a result of the rule’s proprietary trading and market making limitations. While some studies and rulemaking required under Dodd-Frank have been completed, we cannot predict with certainty the requirements or specific applicability of all regulations ultimately adopted under Dodd-Frank, nor can we predict with certainty how such regulations, or further federal oversight or regulation of the insurance industry, will affect our business, the financial markets or the business climate generally. Certain federal regulation may impact our property and casualty operations. In 2013, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development finalized rules that may adversely impact our ability to differentiate pricing for homeowners policies using traditional risk selection analysis. In addition, Congress, or some states, may enact further legislation affecting insurers’ ability to use credit-based insurance scores as part of the property and casualty underwriting or rating process, which could increase litigation costs, force changes in our underwriting practices and impair our property and casualty operations’ ability to write homeowners business profitably. Lastly, international standards are emerging as a response to the globalization of the insurance industry and recent financial events. Any international conventions or mandates that directly or indirectly impact or influence the nature of U.S. regulation or industry operations could negatively affect us. For further discussions of the kinds of regulation applicable to us, see Item 1, Business, Regulation Applicable to Our Business section. Changes in tax laws could decrease sales and profitability of certain products and increase our tax cost. Under current U.S. federal and state income tax laws, certain products we offer, primarily life insurance and annuities, receive tax treatment designed to encourage consumers to purchase these products. This treatment may give some of our products a competitive advantage over non-insurance products. The U.S. Congress from time to time may consider legislation that would reduce or eliminate this policyholder tax treatment. The U.S. Congress also may consider proposals to reduce the taxation of certain products or investments that may compete with life insurance and annuities. Any legislation that increases the taxation on insurance products and/or reduces the taxation on competing products would lessen the advantage or create a disadvantage to some of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to sell such products and could result in the surrender of some existing contracts and policies. In addition, changes in the U.S. federal and state estate tax laws could negatively affect the demand for the types of life insurance used in estate planning. 19 Table of Contents Changes to the tax laws, administrative rulings or court decisions affecting U.S. corporations or the insurance industry could increase our effective tax rate and lower our net income. In addition, uncertainty regarding the tax structure in the future may also cause some current or future purchasers to delay or indefinitely postpone the purchase of products we offer. We cannot predict whether any tax legislation will be enacted or whether any legislation would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. New accounting rules or changes to existing accounting rules could negatively impact our business. We are required to comply with GAAP. A number of organizations are instrumental in the development and interpretation of GAAP, such as the SEC, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. GAAP is subject to constant review by these organizations and others in an effort to address emerging accounting rules and issue interpretative accounting guidance on a continual basis. For example, in 2013 FASB issued an exposure draft of a proposed new accounting standards for insurance contracts. We can give no assurance that future changes to GAAP will not have a negative impact on us. We also must comply with statutory accounting principles (“SAP”) in our insurance operations. SAP and various components of SAP (such as actuarial reserving methodology) are subject to constant review by the NAIC and its taskforces and committees, as well as state insurance departments, in an effort to address emerging issues and otherwise improve or alter financial reporting. For example, the NAIC is currently considering various initiatives to modernize financial and solvency regulations. We cannot predict whether or in what form, potential changes will be enacted or what impact any such changes may have on our product mix, product profitability, reserve and capital requirements, financial condition or results of operations. See Note 3, Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed discussion regarding the impact of the recently issued accounting pronouncements and the future adoption of new accounting standards on the Company. Reinsurance and Counterparty Risk Factors Reinsurance may not be available, affordable or adequate to protect us against losses. As part of our risk management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks that we underwrite. Market conditions and geo-political events beyond our control, including the continued threat of terrorism, influence the availability and cost of reinsurance for new business. Moreover, in certain circumstances, the price of existing reinsurance contracts may also increase. The counterparties to our reinsurance arrangements or to the derivative instruments we use to hedge our business risks could default or fail to perform. We use reinsurance to mitigate our risks in various circumstances. Reinsurance does not relieve us of our direct liability to our policyholders, even when the reinsurer is liable to us. Our reinsurers may not pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us or they may not pay these balances on a timely basis. We enter into derivative contracts, such as options, with a number of counterparties to hedge various business risks. If our counterparties fail or refuse to honor their obligations, our economic hedges of the related risk will be ineffective. Such counterparty failures could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, regulations recently effective under Dodd-Frank require the clearing of certain types of derivatives that historically have been traded over-the-counter. This clearing requirement may impose additional costs and regulation on our derivatives transactions, expose us to the risk of a default by a clearinghouse, and cause us to alter our hedging strategy or change the composition of the risks we do not hedge. 20 Table of Contents Other Risk Factors Our financial strength ratings could be downgraded. Various Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations (“NRSROs”) publish financial strength ratings as their opinion of an insurance company’s creditworthiness and ability to meet policyholder and contractholder obligations. These ratings are important to maintaining public confidence in our products, our ability to market our products, and our competitive position. We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating agencies. As with other companies in the financial services industry, our ratings could be downgraded at any time and without any notices by any NRSRO. A downgrade or an announced potential downgrade of our financial strength ratings could affect us in many ways, such as: • reducing new sales of insurance and annuity products; • adversely affecting our relationships with our sales force and independent sales intermediaries; • materially increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders and withdrawals; • requiring us to reduce prices to remain competitive; • adversely affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance at reasonable prices; and • adversely affecting our relationships with credit counterparties. It is likely that the NRSROs will continue to apply a high level of scrutiny to financial institutions, including us and our competitors, and may adjust the capital, risk management and other requirements employed in the NRSRO models for maintenance of certain ratings levels. We are controlled by a small number of stockholders. As of December 31, 2013, the Moody Foundation, a charitable trust controlled by Robert L. Moody, Sr. and two of his children, beneficially owned 6,156,322 shares of our common stock. In addition, Moody National Bank, of which Robert L. Moody, Sr. is chairman and chief executive officer, in its capacity as trustee or agent of various accounts, had the power to vote an additional 12,099,007 shares of our common stock as of December 31, 2013. These two organizations have the power to vote approximately 67.9% of our common stock. As a result, subject to applicable legal and regulatory requirements, they have the ability to exercise a controlling influence over all matters affecting us, including the composition of our Board of Directors, and through the Board of Directors any determination with respect to our business direction and policies, and any other matters submitted for stockholder approval. This concentration of voting power could deter a change of control or other business combination that might otherwise be beneficial or preferable to other stockholders. It may also adversely affect the trading price of our common stock if investors perceive disadvantages in owning stock in a company that is controlled by a small number of stockholders. 21 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 