ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The operating results of insurance companies have historically been, and are likely to remain, subject to significant fluctuations in response to various factors, including without limitation economic trends, interest rate changes, investment performance, claims experience, operating expenses and pricing. Described below are the risks and uncertainties that we have identified as being the most significant to our Company. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem insignificant may also impair our business, financial condition or results of operations as they become known facts or as facts and circumstances change. Difficult conditions in the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations, and these conditions may not improve in the near future. Our results of operations are materially affected by economic conditions in the U.S. and elsewhere. Stressed conditions, volatility and disruptions in global capital markets or in particular markets or financial asset classes can have an adverse effect on us, in part because we have a large investment portfolio. Disruptions in one market or asset class can also spread to other markets or asset classes. Although the disruption in the global financial markets that began in late 2007 has moderated, not all global financial markets are functioning normally, and some remain reliant upon government intervention for liquidity. Although many economists believe the recent recession ended in the third quarter of 2009, the recovery is expected to be slow, and the unemployment rate is expected to remain high for some time. In addition, inflation has fallen over the last several years and remains at very low levels. Some economists believe that disinflation and deflation risk remains in the economy. Our revenues are likely to remain under pressure in such circumstances and our profit margins could erode. Also, in the event of extreme prolonged market events, such as the recent global credit crisis, we could incur significant capital or operating losses. Even in the absence of a market downturn, we are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market volatility. Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, energy costs, geopolitical issues, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our business. In an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, declining consumer confidence, lower family income, increased defaults on mortgages and consumer loans, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our insurance and financial products could be adversely affected. For example, the increased market volatility experienced during 2008 and 2009 led to a decline in demand for our market-linked products, such as variable annuities, and we anticipate that difficult credit conditions may lead to fewer purchases of credit-related insurance products. Negative economic factors may also affect our ability to receive the appropriate rate for the risks that we insure with our policyholders and annuity contract holders. In an economic downturn, our policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether, resulting in an elevated incidence of lapses or surrenders of policies. Our individual protection life insurance markets, particularly our Career Sales and Service Division and our Multiple-Line distribution channels, which serve primarily the lower and middle income markets, respectively, face competition from alternative uses of the customer’s disposable income. All of these outcomes could affect earnings negatively and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Differences between risk assumptions used to price our products and actual experience could materially affect our profitability. Our product pricing includes long-term assumptions regarding investment returns, mortality, morbidity (the rate of incidence of illness), persistency (the rate at which our policies remain in force), and operating costs and expenses of our business. The profitability of our business substantially depends on the extent to which our actual experience is consistent with the assumptions we use to price our products. If we fail to appropriately price our insured risks, or if our claims experience is more severe than our underlying risk assumptions, our profit margins could be negatively affected. Any potentially overpriced risks could negatively impact new business growth and retention of existing business. 15 Table of Contents Increased claims activity resulting from catastrophic events, whether natural or man-made, may result in significant losses. We experience increased claims activity when catastrophic events impact geographic locations in which our policyholders live or do business. Catastrophes can be caused by natural events, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, wildfires, earthquakes, snow, hail and windstorms, or manmade events, such as terrorism, riots, hazardous material releases, or utility outages. Some scientists believe that in recent years, changing climate conditions have added to the unpredictability, severity and frequency of natural disasters. To the extent climate change increases the frequency and severity of such weather events, our insurance operating units may face increased claims. Climate change may also affect the affordability and availability of property and casualty insurance and the pricing of such products. Our life and health insurance operations are also exposed to the risk of catastrophic mortality or illness, such as a pandemic, an outbreak of an easily communicable disease, or another event that causes a large number of deaths or high morbidity. Significant influenza pandemics have occurred three times in the last century; however, neither the likelihood, timing, nor the severity of a future pandemic can be predicted. The effectiveness of external parties, including governmental and non-governmental organizations, in combating the severity of such a catastrophe could have a material impact on our loss experience. We cannot accurately predict catastrophes, or the number and type of catastrophic events that will affect us. As a result, our operating and financial results may vary significantly from one period to the next. While we anticipate and plan for catastrophe losses, there can be no assurance that our financial results will not be materially adversely affected by our exposure to losses arising from catastrophic events in the future that exceed our assumptions. For example, during the second and fourth quarters of 2010, we experienced a $41.6 million increase in net catastrophe losses compared to 2009 due to spring and winter storm activity throughout our geographic coverage area. The extent of our losses in connection with catastrophic events is a function of the severity of the event and the total amount of policyholder exposure in the affected area. Where we have geographic concentrations of policyholders, such as in our group insurance operations, a single catastrophe (such as an earthquake) or destructive weather trend affecting a region may have a significant impact on our financial condition and results of operations. As an insurance company, we face a significant risk of litigation and regulatory investigations, which may result in significant financial losses, harm our reputation, and prevent us from implementing our business strategy. We face a significant risk of litigation and regulatory investigations in the ordinary course of operating our business, including the risk of class action lawsuits. Our pending legal and regulatory actions include proceedings specific to us and others generally applicable to business practices in the industries in which we operate. In connection with our insurance operations, plaintiffs’ lawyers may bring lawsuits, including class actions, alleging, among other things, issues relating to sales or underwriting practices, claims payments and procedures, product design, disclosure, administration, additional premium charges for premiums paid on a periodic basis, denial or delay of benefits, and breaches of fiduciary or other duties to customers. Plaintiffs in class action suits and other types of lawsuits may seek very large or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages. The damages claimed and the amount of any probable and estimable liability, if any, may remain unknown for substantial periods of time and could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and reputation. Note 18, Commitments and Contingencies, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contains a discussion of certain pending and ongoing litigation. The insurance industry has become the focus of increased scrutiny by regulatory and law enforcement authorities. This scrutiny includes investigations and other proceedings within the industry relating to allegations of improper payment and disclosure of contingent commissions paid by insurance companies to intermediaries, the solicitation and provision of fictitious or inflated quotes, the use of inducements in the sale of insurance products, the issuance of refunds of unearned premiums upon termination of credit insurance, the accounting treatment for finite insurance and reinsurance or other non-traditional or loss mitigation insurance and reinsurance products, and the marketing of products. One possible result of these investigations and attendant lawsuits is that many insurance industry practices and customs may change. Such changes could adversely affect our ability to implement our business strategy. 16 Table of Contents In addition, increased regulatory scrutiny and any resulting investigations or proceedings could result in new legal actions and precedents and industry-wide regulations that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations and could impact our ability to offer certain products. The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments taken on our investments and the valuation allowance on the deferred income tax asset are judgmental and could materially impact our financial condition and results of operations. The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments vary by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. Management updates its evaluations regularly and reflects changes in allowances and impairments in operations as such evaluations are revised. Furthermore, additional impairments may need to be taken or allowances provided for in the future. Historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments or allowances. For fixed maturity and equity securities subject to the Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 320-10 Investments, Debt and Equity Securities, an other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”) charge is taken when we do not have the ability and intent to hold the security until the forecasted recovery or based on the probability that we may not be able to receive all contractual payments when due. Fixed maturity securities accounted for under ASC 320-10 may experience OTTI in future periods in the event an adverse change in cash flows is anticipated or probable. Furthermore, equity securities may experience OTTI in the future based on the prospects for recovery in value in a reasonable period. Many criteria are considered during this process including, but not limited to, our ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for an anticipated recovery in value; the expected recoverability of principal and interest; the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than amortized cost for fixed maturity securities or less than cost for equity securities; the financial condition, near-term and long-term prospects of the issue or issuer, including relevant industry conditions and trends and implications of rating agency actions and offering prices; and the specific reasons that a security is in a significant unrealized loss position, including market conditions, which could affect our liquidity. OTTI losses result in a reduction to the cost basis of the underlying investment. Deferred income tax represents the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existed assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they are realizable. Factors considered by management include, but not limited to, performance of the Company and our ability to generate future taxable income. If based on available information, it is more-likely-than-not that the deferred tax assets will not be realized then a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income. Such changes could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our investment portfolio includes fixed maturity securities, equity securities, and commercial real estate, and fluctuations in these markets could adversely affect the valuation of our investment portfolio, our net investment income, and our overall profitability. Our investment portfolio is subject to market risks, such as risks associated with changes in interest rates, market volatility, and deterioration in the credit of companies in which we have invested. In the past few years, domestic and international equity markets have experienced heightened volatility and turmoil. In the event of extreme prolonged market events, such as the current global economic crisis, we could incur significant losses. Even in the absence of a market downturn, however, we are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market volatility. Investment returns are an important part of our overall profitability, and fluctuations in the fixed maturity, equity or real estate markets could negatively affect the timing and amount of our net investment income and adversely affect our financial condition. 17 Table of Contents Although the disruption in the global financial markets has moderated, not all global financial markets are functioning normally and some remain reliant upon government intervention for liquidity. Continuing challenges include continued weakness in the U.S. real estate market and increased mortgage loan delinquencies, investor anxiety over the U.S. and European economies, rating agency downgrades of various structured products and financial issuers, deleveraging of financial institutions and hedge funds and a serious dislocation in the inter-bank market. If there is a resumption of significant volatility in the markets, it could cause changes in interest rates, declines in equity prices, and the strengthening or weakening of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar which, individually or in aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows through realized investment losses, impairments, and changes in unrealized loss positions. When interest rates rise, the value of our investment portfolio may decline due to decreases in the fair value of our fixed maturity securities that comprise a substantial portion of our investment portfolio. Generally, we expect to hold our fixed maturity investments to maturity, including investments that have declined in value. Our intent can change, however, due to financial market fluctuations, changes in our investment strategy, or changes in our evaluation of the investee’s financial condition and prospects. In a declining interest rate environment, prepayments and redemptions affecting our investment securities and mortgage loan investments may increase as issuers and borrowers seek to refinance at a lower rate. The decline in market rates could reduce our investment income as new funds are invested at lower yields. Further deterioration in the economy or deterioration in the commercial real estate market could adversely affect our investments in commercial real estate, including our mortgage loans, and have a material adverse effect on our investment portfolio. Concentration of our investment portfolios in any particular segment of the economy may have adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. The concentration of our investment portfolios in any particular industry, group of related industries, or geographic sector could have an adverse effect on our investment portfolios and consequently on our financial condition and results of operations. While we seek to mitigate this risk by having a broadly diversified portfolio, events or developments that have a negative impact on any particular industry, group of related industries, or geographic region may have a disproportionate adverse effect on our investment portfolios to the extent that the portfolios are concentrated rather than diversified. Some of our investments are relatively illiquid. Our investments in privately placed securities, mortgage loans, and equity covering real estate, including real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership interests, are relatively illiquid. If we require significant amounts of cash on a short notice in excess of ordinary course cash requirements, it may be difficult or we may not be able to monetize these investments in a timely manner, and we may be forced to sell them for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize. A decline in equity markets or an increase in volatility in the equity markets may adversely affect sales and/or yields of our investment products. Significant downturns and volatility in the equity markets could adversely affect our sales of investment products, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in three principal ways. First, market downturns and volatility may discourage purchases of variable annuities, variable life insurance, and equity-indexed products that have returns linked to the performance of the equity markets and may cause some of our existing customers to withdraw cash values or reduce investments in such products. Second, downturns and volatility in the equity markets may have a material adverse effect on the revenues and returns from our savings and investment products and services. Because these products and services depend on fees related primarily to the value of assets under management, a decline in the equity markets could reduce our revenues by reducing the value of the investment assets we manage. In particular, the variable life and annuity business is highly sensitive to equity markets, and a sustained weakness in the markets could decrease revenues and earnings in variable life and annuity products. 18 Table of Contents Third, we provide certain guarantees within some of our products that protect policyholders against significant downturns in the equity markets. For example, we offer variable annuity products with guaranteed features, such as minimum death benefits. These guarantees may be more costly than expected in volatile or declining equity market conditions, which could cause us to increase liabilities for future policy benefits, negatively affecting our net income. Defaults on our mortgage loans may adversely affect our profitability. Our mortgage loan investments face default risk. Our mortgage loans are principally collateralized by commercial properties. At December 31, 2010, loans that were either delinquent or in the process of foreclosure were less than 1.0% of our $2.7 billion in mortgage loan investments. A significant increase in the default rate of our mortgage loan investments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are controlled by a small number of stockholders. As of December 31, 2010, the Moody Foundation, a charitable trust controlled by Robert L. Moody, Sr. and members of his family, beneficially owned 6,157,822 shares of our common stock. In addition to these shares and as of such date, Moody National Bank, of which Robert L. Moody, Sr. is chairman and chief executive officer, in its capacity as trustee or agent had the power to vote an additional 12,489,462 shares of our common stock. These two stockholders have the power to vote approximately 70% of our common stock. As a result, these two stockholders have the ability to exercise a controlling influence over all matters affecting us, including: • the composition of our Board of Directors, subject to applicable legal and regulatory requirements, and through the Board of Directors, any determination with respect to our business direction and policies, including the appointment and removal of officers; • any determinations with respect to mergers or other business combinations; • acquisition and disposition of assets; and • any other matters submitted for stockholder approval. Concentration of voting power could have the effect of deterring a change of control or other business combination that might otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. This significant concentration of voting power may also adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, because investors may perceive disadvantages in owning stock in a company that is controlled by a small number of stockholders. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 19,960,277 shares of our common stock (approximately 74%) were beneficially owned by The Moody Foundation, Moody National Bank, our executive officers, directors, and advisory directors and family members of our executive officers and directors. As of that same date, approximately 6,859,889 shares (approximately 26%), with an aggregate market value of $587,343,696 were held by other stockholders. Our future results are dependent in part on our ability to successfully operate in insurance and annuity industries that are highly competitive. The insurance and annuity industries are highly competitive. The product development and product life-cycles have shortened in many product segments, leading to more intense competition with respect to product features. In addition, many of our competitors have well-established national reputations and market similar products. Competition for customers and agents has led to increased marketing and advertising by our competitors, varied agent compensation structures, as well as the introduction of new insurance products and aggressive pricing. We also compete for customers’ funds with a variety of investment products offered by financial services companies other than insurance companies, such as banks, investment advisors, mutual fund companies and other financial institutions. Moreover, the ability of banks to be affiliates of insurers may have a material adverse effect on all of our product lines by substantially increasing the number, size and financial strength of potential competitors. If we cannot effectively respond to increased competition for the business of our current and prospective customers, we may not be able to grow our business or we may lose market share. In addition, if we fail to maintain our discipline in pricing and underwriting in the face of this competition, our underwriting profits may be adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents Furthermore, certain competitors operate using a mutual insurance company structure, which means generally every policyholder has voting rights in addition to their rights as a policyholder. Therefore, such companies may have dissimilar profitability and return targets. We may be unable to attract and retain sales representatives and third-party independent agents for our products. We must attract and retain productive sales representatives and third-party independent agents to sell our insurance and annuity products. Strong competition exists among insurers for producers with demonstrated ability. We compete with other insurers for producers primarily on the basis of our financial position, stable ownership, support services, compensation, and product features. We continue to undertake several initiatives to grow our agency force while continuing to enhance the efficiency and production of our existing sales force. We cannot provide assurance that these initiatives will succeed in attracting and retaining new sales representatives and agents. Sales of individual insurance and annuity products, and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining sales representatives and agents. In choosing an insurance provider, an agent may consider ease-of-doing business, reputation, price of product, customer service, claims handling, and the insurer’s compensation structure. We may be unable to compete with insurers that adopt more aggressive pricing policies or compensation structures, insurers that offer a broader array of products, or that offer policies similar to ours at lower prices or as part of a package of products, or insurers that have extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Even though we may establish a contractual relationship with an agent on a short-term basis, there is no certainty that such business arrangement will be continued on a longer-term basis. In addition, certain products are distributed under agreements with companies that are not affiliated with us. Termination of one or more of these agreements could have a detrimental effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could negatively affect our business. Management of operational, legal, and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record and verify a large number of transactions and events. We have devoted significant resources to develop risk management policies and procedures, and we expect to continue to do so. Nonetheless, these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. Many of our methods for managing risk and exposures are based upon the use of observed historical market behavior or statistics premised on historical models. As a result, these methods may not accurately predict future exposures, which could be significantly greater than historical measures indicate. Other risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information that is publicly available or otherwise accessible regarding markets, clients, catastrophe occurrence, or other matters. This information may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. See Part II, Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, for additional details. Reinsurance may not be available, affordable or adequate to protect us against losses. As part of our overall risk management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our business segments. Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of reinsurance protection for new business. In certain circumstances, the price of reinsurance for business already reinsured may also increase. Any decrease in the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss, and any increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in the amount of reinsurance, reduce our earnings. Accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect our ability to write future business or result in the assumption of more risk with respect to those policies we issue. 20 Table of Contents Emerging claim and coverage issues could negatively impact our business. As insurance industry practices and legal, judicial, social, and other conditions outside of our control change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or increasing the type, number, or size of claims. Such emerging claims and coverage issues include (i) evolving theories of liability and judicial decisions expanding the interpretation of our policy provisions, thereby increasing the amount of damages for which we are liable, and (ii) a growing trend of plaintiffs targeting insurers in purported class action litigation relating to claims handling and other practices in the insurance industry. The effects of these and other related unforeseen emerging issues are extremely hard to predict and could harm our business and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our financial results may be adversely affected by the cyclical nature of the property and casualty business in which we participate. The property and casualty insurance market is traditionally cyclical, experiencing periods characterized by relatively high levels of price competition, less restrictive underwriting standards, and relatively low premium rates, followed by periods of relatively low levels of competition, more selective underwriting standards, and relatively high premium rates. We are currently operating in a period characterized by significant price competition, which may reduce our margins. While both types of periods pose challenges to us, if we were to relax our underwriting standards or pricing in response to the competitive market, a period of increased claims activity could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Inflationary pressures on medical care costs, auto parts and repair, construction costs, and other economic factors may increase the amount we pay for claims and negatively affect our underwriting results. Rising medical costs require us to make higher payouts in connection with health insurance claims and claims of bodily injury under our property and casualty and healthcare policies. Likewise, increases in costs for auto parts and repair services, construction costs, and commodities result in higher loss costs for property damage claims. Thus, inflationary pressures could increase the cost of claims. These inflationary pressures may require us to increase our reserves. Our potential inability to adjust pricing for our products to account for cost increases or find other offsetting supply chain and business efficiencies may negatively impact our underwriting profit and results of operations. Interest rate fluctuations and other events may require us to accelerate the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs (“DAC”), which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. DAC represents the costs that vary with and are related primarily to the acquisition of new and renewal insurance and annuity contracts. When interest rates rise, surrenders of policies and withdrawals from life insurance policies and annuity contracts may increase as policyholders seek to buy products with higher or perceived higher returns in exchange for the surrender or withdrawal, requiring us to accelerate the amortization of DAC. To the extent such amortization exceeds surrender or other charges earned as income upon surrender and withdrawals from certain life insurance policies and annuity contracts, our results of operations could be negatively affected. The rate of amortization of DAC is also contingent upon profitability of the business. Typically, estimated lower levels of profitability require a higher rate of acceleration for DAC amortization; in contrast, estimated higher levels of profitability require a lower rate of acceleration for DAC amortization. DAC for both insurance-oriented and investment-oriented products is reviewed for recoverability, which involves estimating the future profitability of current business. This review involves significant management judgment. If the actual emergence of future profitability were to be substantially lower than estimated, we could be required to accelerate DAC amortization, and such acceleration could adversely affect our results of operations. See also Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Estimates, and Part II, Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Date — Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Practices, and Note 8, Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 21 Table of Contents Changes in market interest rates may lead to a significant decrease in the sales and profitability of our spread-based products. Some of our products, principally interest-sensitive life insurance and fixed annuities, expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates may reduce our “spread” or the difference between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts and the rate of return we are able to earn on the underlying investment intended to support obligations under such contracts. This “spread” is a key component of our Life and Annuity segments’ results of operations. Our ability to manage our investment margin for spread-based products is dependent upon maintaining profitable spreads between investment yields and interest crediting rates. When market interest rates decrease or remain at relatively low levels, proceeds from investments that have matured or that have been prepaid or sold may be reinvested at lower yields, reducing investment margin. Lower rates in such an environment can offset decreases in investment yield on some products; however, these changes could be limited by market conditions and regulatory or contractual minimum rate guarantees. Moreover, the new rates may not match the timing or magnitude of changes in asset yields. Furthermore, decreases in the rates offered on products could make those products less attractive, leading to lower sales and/or changes in the level of surrenders and withdrawals for these products. Non-parallel shifts in interest rates, such as increases in short-term rates without accompanying increases in medium and long-term rates, can influence customer demand for fixed annuities, which could impact the level and profitability of new investments by customers. Increases in market interest rates can also have negative effects, for example by increasing the attractiveness of other insurance or investment products to our customers, which can lead to higher surrenders at a time when fixed maturity investment asset values are lower as a result of the increase in interest rates. For certain products, principally fixed annuity and interest-sensitive life products, the earned rate on assets could lag behind rising market yields. We may react to market conditions by increasing rates, which could narrow spreads. While we develop and maintain asset-liability management programs and procedures designed to mitigate the effect on spread income of rising or falling interest rates, no assurance can be given that changes in interest rates will not affect such spreads. Additionally, our asset-liability management programs and procedures incorporate assumptions about the relationship between short-term and long-term interest rates (i.e., the slope of the yield curve) and relationships between risk-adjusted and risk-free interest rates, market liquidity, and other factors. The effectiveness of our asset-liability management programs and procedures may be negatively affected whenever actual results differ from these assumptions. If the counterparties to our reinsurance arrangements or to the derivative instruments we use to hedge our business risks default or fail to perform, we may be exposed to risks we had sought to mitigate, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We use reinsurance and, to a lesser extent, derivative instruments (equity-indexed options) to mitigate our risks in various circumstances. In general, reinsurance does not relieve us of our direct liability to our policyholders, even when the reinsurer is liable to us. Accordingly, we bear credit risk on all of our policies with respect to our reinsurers. We cannot provide assurance that our reinsurers will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us or that they will pay these recoverables on a timely basis. A reinsurer’s insolvency, inability, or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of reinsurance agreements with us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents In addition, we use derivative instruments to hedge various business risks. We enter into derivative instruments, including options, with a number of counterparties. If our counterparties fail or refuse to honor their obligations under these derivative instruments, our hedges of the related risk will be ineffective. Although our use of derivative instruments is not as significant as that of many of our competitors, such counterparty failures nevertheless could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A downgrade or a potential downgrade in our financial strength ratings could result in a loss of business and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Financial strength ratings, which various Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations (“NRSROs”) publish as indicators of an insurance company’s ability to meet policyholder and contractholder obligations, are important to maintaining public confidence in our products, our ability to market our products, and our competitive position. We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which could adversely affect our business. As with other companies in the financial services industry, our ratings could be downgraded at any time and without any notices by any NRSRO. On October 20, 2010, Standard & Poor’s rating service lowered its counterparty credit and financial strength ratings on our core operating companies, from ‘AA-’ to “A+” with an outlook of “negative.” Downgrades in our financial strength ratings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including: • reducing new sales of insurance products, and annuity products; • adversely affecting our relationships with our sales force and independent sales intermediaries; • materially increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders and withdrawals by policyholders and contract holders; • requiring us to reduce prices for many of our products and services to remain competitive; • increasing our borrowing cost; • adversely affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance at reasonable prices; and • adversely affecting our relationships with credit counterparties. Standard & Poor’s rating action focused heavily on our property and casualty operations, which have been impacted by a number of large catastrophic events over the last several years. While the property and casualty operations have become more significant in recent years, the life and annuity operations remain our key focus, and those operations have had a substantial improvement in performance over recent periods. In view of the difficulties experienced recently by many financial institutions, including our competitors in the insurance industry, we believe it is possible that the NRSROs will heighten the level of scrutiny that they apply to such institutions, will increase the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, will request additional information from the companies that they rate, and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the NRSRO models for maintenance of certain ratings levels. The continued threat of terrorism and ongoing military actions may adversely affect the level of our claim losses and the value of our investment portfolio. The continued threat of terrorism, both within the U.S. and abroad, ongoing military actions, and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats may cause significant volatility in global financial markets and result in loss of life and property, disruption to commerce, and reduced economic activity. Some of the assets in our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by reduced economic activity caused by the continued threat of terrorism. We cannot predict whether, and the extent to which, companies in which we maintain investments may suffer losses as a result of financial, commercial, or economic disruptions, or how any such disruptions might affect the ability of those companies to pay interest or principal on their securities. The continued threat of terrorism also may result in increased reinsurance prices and reduced insurance coverage and may cause us to retain more risk than we otherwise would retain if we were able to obtain reinsurance at lower prices. In addition, the occurrence of terrorist actions could result in higher claims under our insurance policies than anticipated. 23 Table of Contents We are subject to extensive regulation, and potential further restrictive regulation may increase our operating costs and limit our growth. As insurance companies, our subsidiaries and affiliates are subject to extensive laws and regulations. The method of such regulation varies, but typically has its source in statutes that delegate regulatory and supervisory powers to an insurance official. The regulation and supervision relate primarily to: • licensing companies and agents to transact business; • calculating the value of assets to determine compliance with statutory requirements; • restricting the size of risks that may be insured under a single contract; • mandating certain insurance benefits; • regulating certain premium rates; • reviewing and approving policy forms and reports of financial condition required to be filed; • regulating unfair trade and claims practices, including imposing restrictions on marketing and sales practices, distribution arrangements, and payment of inducements; • regulating advertising; • protecting privacy; • establishing statutory capital and reserve requirements and solvency standards; • determining methods of accounting; • fixing maximum interest rates on insurance policy loans and minimum rates for guaranteed crediting rates on life insurance policies and annuity contracts; • approving changes in control of insurance companies; • restricting the payment of dividends and other transactions between affiliates; and • regulating the types, amounts and valuation of investments. These laws and regulations are complex and subject to change. Moreover, the laws and regulations applicable to us are administered and enforced by a number of different governmental authorities, including state insurance regulators, state securities administrators, the SEC, the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”), the FINRA, the U.S. Department of Justice, and state attorneys general, each of which exercises a degree of interpretive latitude. Consequently, we are subject to the risk that compliance with any particular regulator or enforcement authority’s interpretation of a legal issue may not result in compliance with another regulator or enforcement authority’s interpretation of the same issue. In addition, there is risk that any particular regulator or enforcement authority’s interpretation of a legal issue may change over time to our detriment, or that changes in the overall legal environment may, in the absence of changes to any particular regulator or enforcement authority’s interpretation of a legal issue, cause us to change our views regarding the actions we need to take from a legal risk management perspective, thus necessitating changes to our practices that may, in some cases, limit our ability to grow and improve the profitability of our business. The regulatory environment could have other significant effects on our business. Among other things, we could be fined, prohibited from engaging in some or all of our business activities, or made subject to limitations or conditions on our business activities. Significant regulatory actions against us could have material adverse financial effects, cause significant reputational harm, or harm our business prospects. State legislators and insurance regulators continue to examine the appropriate nature and scope of state insurance regulation. Furthermore, we anticipate federal government involvement in healthcare to increase in the coming years, as it attempts to provide minimum coverage to all individuals. We can make no assurances regarding the potential impact of state or federal measures that may change the nature or scope of insurance regulation. 24 Table of Contents Compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing business, thus having a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In particular, changes in the regulations governing the registration and distribution of variable insurance products, such as changes in the regulatory standards under which the sale of a variable annuity contract or variable life insurance policy is considered suitable for a particular customer, could have a material adverse effect, as could certain state insurance regulations that extend suitability requirements to non-variable products. In addition, with respect to our property and casualty and health business, state departments of insurance regulate and approve underwriting practices and rate changes, which can delay the implementation of premium rate changes or prevent us from making changes we believe are necessary to match rate to risk. In addition, the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank”) effects comprehensive changes to the regulation of the financial services industry, including insurance companies, in the United States. Dodd-Frank provides for enhanced regulation of the financial services industry through multiple initiatives including, without limitation, the creation of a Federal Insurance Office and several new federal oversight agencies, the establishment of federal regulatory authority over derivatives, the establishment of consolidated federal regulation and resolution authority over systemically important financial services firms, changes to the regulation of broker-dealers and investment advisers, changes to the regulation of reinsurance, changes in certain disclosure and corporate governance obligations, and the imposition of additional regulation over credit rating agencies. Certain provisions of Dodd-Frank are or may become applicable to us, our competitors, or certain entities with which we do business. For example, Dodd-Frank includes a new framework for the regulation of over-the-counter derivatives markets, which will require the clearing of certain types of derivatives currently traded over-the-counter, which could potentially impose additional costs and regulation on us. Dodd-Frank directs existing and newly-created government agencies and bodies to promulgate regulations to implement its provisions, a process anticipated to occur over the next few years. It also requires numerous studies, which could result in additional legislation or regulation applicable to us, our competitors or companies with which we do business. Dodd-Frank and its related regulations, along with any such additional legislation or regulation, could make it more expensive for us to conduct business or have a material adverse effect on the overall business climate as well as our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot predict with certainty the requirements or specific applicability of the regulations ultimately adopted under Dodd-Frank, nor can we predict with certainty how Dodd-Frank and such regulations will affect the financial markets generally or impact our business, financial strength ratings, results of operations or cash flows. Changes in tax laws may decrease sales and profitability of certain products. Under the current U.S. federal and state income tax laws, certain products we offer, primarily life insurance and annuities, receive favorable tax treatment designed to encourage consumers to purchase these products. This favorable treatment may give some of our products a competitive advantage over non-insurance products. The U.S. Congress from time to time may consider legislation that would reduce or eliminate the favorable policyholder tax treatment currently applicable to life insurance and annuities. The U.S. Congress also may consider proposals to reduce the taxation of certain products or investments that may compete with life insurance and annuities. Legislation that increases the taxation on insurance products and/or reduces the taxation on competing products could lessen the advantage or create a disadvantage to some of our products, making them less competitive. Such proposals, if adopted, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and ability to sell such products and could result in the surrender of some existing contracts and policies. In addition, changes in the U.S. federal and state estate tax laws could negatively affect the demand for the types of life insurance used in estate planning. Changes in the U.S. federal and state securities laws and regulations may affect our operations and our profitability. Some of our variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies are subject to the U.S. federal and state securities laws and regulations that apply to insurance products that are also securities. As a result, some of our activities in offering and selling variable insurance contracts and policies are subject to extensive regulation under these securities laws. 25 Table of Contents The U.S. federal and state securities laws and regulations are primarily intended to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect investors in the securities markets, as well as protect investment advisory or brokerage clients. These laws and regulations generally grant regulatory agencies broad rulemaking and enforcement powers, including the power to limit or restrict the conduct of business for failure to comply with securities laws and regulations. Changes to these laws or regulations that restrict the conduct of our business could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In particular, changes in the regulations governing the registration and distribution of variable insurance products, such as changes in the regulatory standards for suitability of variable annuity contracts or variable life insurance policies, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability and could ultimately impact our ability to offer some of these products. New accounting rules or changes to existing accounting rules could negatively impact our business. We are required to comply with GAAP. A number of organizations are instrumental in the development and interpretation of GAAP, such as the SEC, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. GAAP is subject to constant review by these organizations and others in an effort to address emerging accounting rules and issue interpretative accounting guidance on a continual basis. We can give no assurance that future changes to GAAP will not have a negative impact on us. In addition, we are required to comply with statutory accounting principles (“SAP”) in our insurance operations. SAP and various components of SAP (such as actuarial reserving methodology) are subject to constant review by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”) and its taskforces and committees, as well as state insurance departments, in an effort to address emerging issues and otherwise improve or alter financial reporting. The NAIC is currently working to reform state regulation in various areas, including comprehensive reforms relating to life insurance reserves and the accounting for such reserves. We cannot predict whether or in what form reforms will be enacted and whether the reforms, if enacted, will positively or negatively affect us. See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Practices, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed discussion regarding the impact of the recently issued accounting pronouncements to the Company. Prohibition on the use of customer credit information in connection with pricing and underwriting could impact our ability to price policies and consequently our profitability. Within the limits of U.S. federal and state regulations, our property and casualty personal lines use customer credit information to price policies. Certain groups and regulators have asserted that the use of credit information may have a discriminatory impact and are calling for the prohibition or restriction on the use of credit data in underwriting and pricing. Elimination of the use of this information for underwriting purposes could have an adverse affect on our profitability, because we would have less data upon which to price policies. The occurrence of events that are unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems and business continuity planning could impair our ability to conduct business effectively. Our corporate headquarters is located in Galveston, Texas, on the coast of the Gulf of Mexico. We have taken action to protect our ability to service our policyholders in the event of a hurricane or other natural disaster affecting Galveston through our off-site disaster recovery systems and business continuity planning. Many of our key home office staff has relocated to our South Shore office buildings in League City, Texas. The primary offices of our property and casualty insurance companies are located in Springfield, Missouri and Glenmont, New York. These offices help to insulate our property and casualty operations from coastal catastrophes. Furthermore, we have established a remote processing center in San Antonio, Texas which will support operations in the event that the Galveston area is affected by natural disaster. There is no assurance, however, that these efforts will prove successful. In the event of a hurricane or other natural disaster, an industrial accident, or acts of terrorism or war that would impact our corporate headquarters, events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems could have an adverse impact on our ability to conduct business and on our financial condition and results of operations, particularly if those events affect our computer-based data processing, transmission, storage and retrieval systems. In the event that a significant number of our managers, employees, or agents were unavailable following such a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct our business could be compromised. 26 Table of Contents We may not be able to continue to be a low cost provider of property and casualty products due to the potential effects of the use of comparative rating software. The increased transparency that arises from the use of comparative rating software in the property and casualty insurance market could work to our competitive disadvantage. Comparative rating software, which already is widely used in personal auto and homeowners insurance, offers competitors the opportunity to model the premiums we charge over the spectrum of personal insurance policies we sell. Increased transparency of our rating structure may allow some competitors to mimic our pricing, thereby possibly reducing our competitive advantage. If we are unable to maintain the availability of our systems and safeguard the security of our data, our ability to conduct our business may be compromised and our reputation may be harmed. We use computer systems to store, retrieve, evaluate, and utilize customer and company data and information. Our information technology and telecommunications systems, in turn, interface with and rely upon third-party systems. Our business is highly dependent on our ability and the ability of our employees and agents to access these systems to perform necessary business functions, such as providing new business quotes, processing new and renewal business, making changes to existing policies, filing and paying claims, providing customer support, pricing our products and services, establishing reserves, and timely and accurate financial reporting. Systems failures or outages and our ability to recover from these failures and outages could compromise our ability to perform these functions on a timely basis, which could hurt our business and our relationships with our agents and policyholders. A breach of security with respect to our systems or those of our third-party vendors providing outsourced services could also jeopardize the confidentiality of our customers’ personal data, which could harm our reputation and expose us to possible liability. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide security and authentication capabilities, but we cannot guarantee that advances in computer capabilities, computer viruses, programming or human errors, loss or theft of computer equipment, or other events or developments would not result in a breach of our security measures, misappropriation of our proprietary information, misappropriation of customers’ personal data, or an interruption of our business operations. We have invested significant time and resources to mitigate these systems and data security risks; however, we cannot be certain that our efforts to mitigate such risks will be effective in all cases. Employee error and misconduct may be difficult to detect and prevent and may result in significant losses. Losses may result from, among other things, fraud, errors, failure to document transactions properly, failure to obtain proper internal authorization, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements. There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years, and there is a risk that employee misconduct could occur. It is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. 27 Table of Contents Our business operations depend on our ability to appropriately execute and administer our policies and claims. Our primary business is writing and servicing life, property and casualty, and health insurance for individuals, families and commercial business. Because we deal with large numbers of similar policies, any problems or discrepancies that arise in our pricing, underwriting, billing, processing, claims handling or other practices, whether as a result of employee error, vendor error, or technological problems, could have negative repercussions on our results of operations and our reputation, if such problems or discrepancies are replicated through multiple policies. Our Medicare Supplement business could be negatively affected by alternative healthcare providers. The Medicare Supplement business is impacted by market trends in the senior-aged healthcare industry that provide alternatives to traditional Medicare, such as health maintenance organizations and other managed care or private plans. The success of these alternative healthcare solutions for senior-aged persons could negatively affect the sales and premium growth of traditional Medicare Supplement insurance and could impact our ability to offer such products. Our Medicare Supplement business is subject to intense competition and stringent pricing regulation, which could negatively impact future sales and affect our ability to offer this product. In recent years, price competition in the traditional Medicare Supplement market has been significant, characterized by some insurers who have been willing to earn very small profit margins or to under-price new sales in order to gain market share. We have elected not to under-price new sales, which has negatively affected sales and could continue to do so if these industry practices continue. Our Medicare Supplement business is also subject to stringent regulation, which includes price setting rules that result in a maximum amount of profit that can be made, with no limits on potential loss of the insurer. Under such regulations, we are unable to raise premiums beyond the established set price. Thus, restrictions on the level of our profits could materially adversely affect our ability to offer this product. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 28 Table of Contents 