ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS WE HAVE A HISTORY OF LOSSES AND THERE CAN BE NO ASSURANCES REGARDING IF AND WHEN WE WILL ACHIEVE PROFITABILITY. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO ACHIEVE PROFITABLE OPERATIONS, WE MAY NEED TO RAISE ADDITIONAL CAPITAL TO CONTINUE OUR OPERATIONS, WHICH MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE ON COMMERCIALLY REASONABLE TERMS OR AT ALL, AND WHICH MAY DILUTE OUR STOCKHOLDERS. Since 2000, we have experienced net losses and we have not been consistently profitable on an annual basis. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, we incurred net losses of $2.4 million and $1.2 million, respectively. We believe our history of net losses is primarily due to our inability to add enough new sources of revenue to replace decreasing business from existing sources of revenue and, more recently, through a shift of our business toward lower margin products and services. Further, for the year ended December 31, 2009, we experienced much higher than expected expenditures for stock-related fees and compensation in excess of our increase in gross revenue. To achieve profitability, we must accomplish numerous objectives, including growth in our business, the development of new products and commercial relationships, and decreasing our costs. We can not foresee with any certainty whether we will be able to achieve these objectives in the future. Accordingly, we may not generate sufficient net revenue to achieve profitability. FAILURE TO MAINTAIN EFFECTIVE INTERNAL CONTROLS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, OPERATING RESULTS AND STOCK PRICE. We have evaluated and will continue to evaluate our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires an annual management assessment of the design and effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. We have previously identified a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting due to a lack of personnel to sufficiently monitor and process transactions. Due to our continuing lack of financial resources to hire and train accounting and financial personnel, we have not yet remedied this material weakness. While we are not aware of any material errors to date, our inability to maintain the adequate internal controls may result in a material error in our financial statements. Moreover, effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to helping prevent financial fraud. If we experience a material error in our financial statements or if we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our stock could drop significantly. COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS MAY REDUCE, DELAY OR PREVENT OUR REALIZATION OF LICENSE REVENUES. Our licensees and their operations are subject to increasingly strict environmental laws and regulations, including laws and regulations governing the emission, discharge, disposal and transportation of certain substances and related odor. Wastewater treatment plants and other plants at which our biosolids products or processes may be implemented are usually required to have permits, registrations and/or approvals from state and/or local governments for the operation of such facilities. Some of our licensee's facilities require air, wastewater, storm water, biosolids processing, use or siting permits, registrations or approvals. These licensees may not be able to maintain or renew their current permits or registrations or to obtain new permits or registrations. The process of obtaining a required permit or registration can be lengthy and expensive. They may not be able to meet applicable regulatory or permit requirements, and therefore may be subject to related legal or judicial proceedings that could have a materially adverse effect on our income derived from these licensees. Any of the permits, registrations or approvals noted above, or related applications may be subject to denial, revocation or modification, or challenge by a third party, under various circumstances. In addition, if new environmental legislation or regulations are enacted or existing legislation or regulations are amended or are enforced differently, these licensees may be required to obtain additional, or modify existing, operating permits, registrations or approvals. Maintaining, modifying or renewing current permits or registrations or obtaining new permits or registrations after new environmental legislation or regulations are enacted or existing legislation or regulations are amended or enforced differently may be subject to public opposition or challenge. Much of this public opposition and challenge, as well as related complaints, relates to odor issues, even when our licensees are in compliance with odor requirements and even though the licensees have worked hard to minimize odor from their operations. Public misperceptions about the business and any related odor could influence the governmental process for issuing such permits or registrations or for responding to any such public opposition or challenge. Community groups could pressure local municipalities or state governments to implement laws and regulations which could increase our licensees' costs of their operations that in turn could have a material and adverse effect on our business and financial condition. OUR ABILITY TO GROW OUR REVENUES AND OPERATIONS MAY BE LIMITED BY COMPETITION. We provide a variety of technology and services relating to the treatment of wastewater residuals. We are in direct and indirect competition with other businesses that provide some or all of the same services including regional residuals management companies and national and international water and wastewater operations/privatization companies, technology suppliers, municipal solid waste companies and farming operations. Many of these competitors are larger and have significantly greater capital resources. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from services provided under municipal contracts, and many of these are subject to competitive bidding. We also intend to bid on additional municipal contracts, however, and may not be the successful bidder. In addition, some of our contracts will expire in the future and those contracts may not be renewed or may be renewed on less attractive terms. If we are not able to replace revenues from contracts lost through competitive bidding or from the renegotiation of existing contracts with other revenues within a reasonable time period, the lost revenue could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. OUR CUSTOMER CONTRACTS MAY BE TERMINATED PRIOR TO THE EXPIRATION OF THEIR TERM. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from services provided under contracts and agreements with existing licensees. Some of these contracts, especially those contracts with large municipalities, provide for termination of the contract by the customer after giving relative short notice (in some cases as little as ten days). In addition, some of these contracts contain liquidated damages clauses, which may or may not be enforceable in the event of early termination of the contracts. If one or more of these contracts are terminated prior to the expiration of its term, and we are not able to replace revenues from the terminated contract or receive liquidated damages pursuant to the terms of the contract, the lost revenue could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF OUR BUSINESS COMES FROM A LIMITED NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS AND OUR REVENUE AND PROFITS COULD DECREASE SIGNIFICANTLY IF WE LOST ONE OR MORE OF THEM AS CUSTOMERS. FURTHER, THE AGREEMENT WITH OUR MOST SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMER EXPIRES IN SEPTEMBER 2010, AND OUR FAILURE TO RENEW THAT AGREEMENT ON FAVORABLE TERMS WOULD LIKELY HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITIONS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Our business depends on provision of services to a limited number of customers. One or more of these customers may stop contracting for services from us or may substantially reduce the amount of services we provide them. Any cancellation, deferral or significant reduction in the services we provide these principal customers or a significant number of smaller customers could seriously harm our business and financial condition. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, our single largest customer accounted for approximately 32% and 39%, respectively, of our revenues and our top three customers accounted for approximately 65% and 62%, respectively, of our revenues. Our agreement with our largest customer - which represented approximately 32% of our revenues in 2009 - is due to expire at the end of September 2010. We are attempting to negotiate a renewal of that agreement, but we cannot assure you that we will be able to secure such a renewal at all or on terms that are as favorable as the current agreement. Our failure to renew that agreement on favorable terms would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. THE CURRENT ECONOMIC DOWNTURN MAY CAUSE US TO EXPERIENCE DELAYS OF PAYMENT FROM OUR CUSTOMERS. Our accounts receivable are derived primarily from municipal or local governments. Although our collection history has been good, from time to time a customer may not pay us on a timely basis because of adverse market conditions. In light of the current economic downturn, we may experience larger than expected delays in receiving payments on our accounts receivable. Given our history of losses and our limited cash resource, any significant payment delay by one of our customers, may force us to delay payment to our creditors, which may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE ARE AFFECTED BY UNUSUALLY ADVERSE WEATHER CONDITIONS. Our business is adversely affected by unusual weather conditions and unseasonably heavy rainfall which can temporarily reduce the availability of land application sites in close proximity to our operations. In addition, revenues and operational results are adversely affected during months of inclement weather which limits the level of land application that can be performed. Long periods of adverse weather could have a material negative effect on our business and financial condition. For example, our Toledo, Ohio operation is affected by unusually adverse weather conditions by lowering the demand for N-Viro Soil(TM) distribution to the local agricultural community. FUEL COST VARIATION COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND EXPENSES. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, and war in oil producing countries. Because fuel is needed for the trucks that transport the processing materials and supplies for our customers, price escalations or reductions in the supply of fuel could increase operating expenses and have a negative impact on the results of operations. We are not always able to pass through all or part of the increased fuel costs due to the terms of certain customers' contracts and the inability to negotiate such pass through costs in a timely manner. WE ARE HIGHLY DEPENDENT ON THE SERVICES OF OUR MANAGEMENT TEAM, THE LOSS OF ANY OF WHOM MAY HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. We recently entered into new employment agreements with our Chief Executive Officer, Timothy Kasmoch, our Executive Vice President and Chief Counsel, Robert Bohmer and our Chief Financial Officer, James McHugh, each of which contains non-compete and other provisions. The laws of each state differ concerning the enforceability of non-competition agreements. We cannot predict with certainty whether or not a court will enforce a non-compete covenant in any given situation based on the facts and circumstances at that time. If one of our key executive officers were to leave our employ and the courts refused to enforce the non-compete covenant, we might be subject to increased competition, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business and financial condition. OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY MAY BE MISAPPROPRIATED OR SUBJECT TO CLAIMS OF INFRINGEMENT. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements. Our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Our competitors, many of whom have substantially greater resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may have applied for or obtained, or may in the future apply for and obtain, patents that will prevent, limit or otherwise interfere with our ability to offer services. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. It is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, we could be materially adversely affected. VOLATILITY IN THE TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK, AND MAY ELIMINATE A SOURCE OF OUR POTENTIAL REVENUE FROM EXERCISES OF STOCK OPTIONS AND STOCK PURCHASE WARRANTS. During the period from January 1, 2008 through March 19, 2010, our common stock closing price fluctuated between a high of $4.25 and a low of $1.20. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, the thinly-traded nature of our common stock and the outlook of analysts and investors on our industry. Further, significant market fluctuations, such as over the past six months, may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Over the past several years, we have relied on, in part, exercises of stock options by current and former officers and directors and stock purchase warrants by investors for operating cash. Wide fluctuations in the price of our common stock or a stock price that is not significantly above the exercise price of outstanding stock options or warrants, would likely reduce future exercises of stock options or warrants, and which would reduce or eliminate a historic source of cash for our operations. 