Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is dependent on reimbursement rates under federal and state programs, and legislation or regulatory action may reduce or otherwise materially adversely affect the reimbursement rates. Our revenues are heavily dependent on payments administered under the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The economic downturn has caused many states to institute freezes on or reductions in Medicaid reimbursements to address state budget concerns. Moreover, for the 2010 federal fiscal year (commencing October 1, 2009), the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) effectively reduced our Medicare reimbursement rates (this reduction was not repeated for the 2011 federal fiscal year). In addition, the skilled nursing center exception to the statutory cap on Medicare reimbursements for therapy services is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2011. If the skilled nursing center exception is not extended, reimbursement for therapy services rendered to our residents and patients will be reduced. In addition to these reductions, there have been numerous initiatives on the federal and state levels for comprehensive reforms affecting the payment for and availability of healthcare services. Aspects of certain of these initiatives, such as further reductions in funding of the Medicare and Medicaid programs, additional changes in reimbursement regulations by CMS, enhanced pressure to contain healthcare costs by Medicare, Medicaid and other payors, and additional operational requirements, could materially adversely affect us. Healthcare reform may affect our revenues and increase our costs and otherwise materially adversely affect our business. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 were signed into law. Together, these two measures make the most sweeping and fundamental changes to the U.S. health care system since the creation of Medicare and Medicaid. These new laws include a large number of health-related provisions that are scheduled to take effect over the next four years, including expanding Medicaid eligibility, requiring most individuals to have health insurance, establishing new regulations on health plans, establishing health insurance exchanges and modifying certain payment systems to encourage more cost-effective care and a reduction of inefficiencies and waste, including through new tools to address fraud and abuse. In addition, in 2011, federal legislation is being formulated to 8 SUN HEALTHCARE GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES repeal or amend provisions of these new statutes. We cannot predict the exact effect these newly enacted laws or any future legislation or regulation will have on us, including future reimbursement rates and occupancy in our inpatient facilities. Our revenue and collections have been adversely affected and may continue to be materially adversely affected by the economic downturn. In addition to state and federal budgetary actions that have impacted the amount of reimbursements that we receive for services under state and federal programs, the recent economic downturn has resulted in reduced demand for our staffing services that we provide through or to other healthcare providers and has impacted our ability to collect receivables from nongovernmental sources. If economic conditions do not improve or if they worsen, this reduction in demand and impact on our receivables collection could continue. Adverse economic conditions could also result in continued reduced demand for our therapy and staffing services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. Delays in collecting or the inability to collect our accounts receivable could materially adversely affect our cash flows and financial position. Prompt billing and collection are important factors in our liquidity. Billing and collection of our accounts receivable are subject to the complex regulations that govern Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement and rules imposed by nongovernment payors. Our inability to bill and collect on a timely basis pursuant to these regulations and rules could subject us to payment delays that could negatively impact our cash flows and ultimately our financial position in a material manner. In addition, commercial payors and other customers, as well as individual patients, may be unable to make payments to us for which they are responsible. The recent economic downturn has resulted in a decrease in our ability to collect accounts receivable from some of our customers. A continuation or worsening of recent unfavorable economic conditions may result in a further decrease in our ability to collect accounts receivable from some of our customers, in which case we will have to make larger allowances for doubtful accounts or incur bad debt write-offs, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. Our business is subject to reviews, audits and investigations under federal and state programs and by private payors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. We are subject to review, audit or investigation by federal and state governmental agencies to verify compliance with the requirements of the Medicare and Medicaid programs and other federal and state programs. Audits under the Medicare and Medicaid programs have intensified in recent years. Private payors also may have a contractual right to review or audit our files. Any review, audit or investigation could result in various actions, including our paying back amounts that we have been paid pursuant to these programs, our paying fines or penalties, the suspension of our ability to collect payment for new residents to a skilled nursing center, exclusion of a skilled nursing center from participation in one or more governmental programs, revocation of a license to operate a skilled nursing center, or loss of a contract with a private payor. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. Possible changes in the case mix of residents and patients as well as payor mix and payment methodologies could materially affect our revenue and profitability. The sources and amount of our revenues are determined by a number of factors, including the licensed bed capacity and occupancy rates of our healthcare centers, the mix of residents and patients and the rates of reimbursement among payors. Likewise, services provided by our ancillary businesses vary based upon payor 9 SUN HEALTHCARE GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES and payment methodologies. Changes in the case mix of the residents and patients as well as payor mix among private pay, Medicare and Medicaid could materially affect our profitability. In particular, any significant decrease in our population of high-acuity residents and patients or any significant increase in our Medicaid population could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations, especially if states operating Medicaid programs continue to limit, or more aggressively seek limits on, reimbursement rates. Unfavorable resolution of litigation matters and disputes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. Skilled nursing center operators, including our inpatient services subsidiaries, are from time to time subject to lawsuits seeking to hold them liable for alleged negligent or other wrongful conduct of employees that allegedly result in injury or death to residents of the centers. We currently have numerous patient care lawsuits pending against us, as well as other types of lawsuits. Adverse determinations in legal proceedings, including potential punitive damages, and any adverse publicity arising therefrom could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. We rely primarily on self-funded insurance programs for general and professional liability and workers’ compensation claims against us, and any claims not covered by, or in excess of, our insurance coverage limits could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial position or results of operations. We self-insure for the majority of our insurable risks, including general and professional liabilities, workers’ compensation liabilities and employee health insurance liabilities, through the use of self-insurance or self-funded insurance policies, which vary by the states in which we operate. We rely upon self-funded insurance programs for general and professional liability claims up to $5.0 million per claim, which amounts we are responsible for funding. We maintain excess insurance for claims above this amount. There is a risk that the amounts funded to our programs of self-insurance and future cash flows may not be sufficient to respond to all claims asserted under those programs. There is no assurance that a claim in excess of our insurance coverage limits will not arise. A claim against us that is not covered by, or is in excess of, the coverage limits provided by our excess insurance policies could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial position or results of operations. Furthermore, there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain adequate excess liability insurance in the future or that, if such insurance is available, it will be available on acceptable terms. Our operations are extensively regulated and adverse determinations against us could result in severe penalties, including loss of licensure and decertification. In the ordinary course of business, we are subject to a wide variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations and to federal and state regulatory scrutiny and supervision in various areas, including referral of patients, false claims under Medicare and Medicaid, health and safety laws, environmental laws and the protection of health information. Such regulatory scrutiny often includes inquiries, civil and criminal investigations, examinations, audits, site visits and surveys, some of which are non-routine. If we are found to have engaged in improper practices, we could be subject to civil, administrative or criminal fines, penalties or restitutionary relief or corporate settlement agreements with federal, state or local authorities, and reimbursement authorities could also seek our suspension or exclusion from participation in their programs. The exclusion of centers from participating in Medicare or Medicaid could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. We cannot predict the future course of any laws or regulations to which we are subject, including Medicare and Medicaid statutes and regulations, the intensity of federal and state enforcement actions or the extent and size of any potential sanctions, fines or 10 SUN HEALTHCARE GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES penalties. Changes in existing laws or regulations, or the enactment of new laws or regulations, could result in changes to our operations requiring significant capital expenditures or additional operating expenses. Evolving interpretations of existing, new or amended laws and regulations or heightened enforcement efforts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. Our hospice business is subject to a cap on the amount paid by Medicare and other Medicare payment limitations, which limitations could materially adversely affect our hospice revenues and earnings. Payments made by Medicare for hospice services are subject to a cap amount on a per hospice basis. Our ability to comply with this limitation depends on a number of factors, including the number of admissions, average length of stay, acuity level of our patients and patients that transfer into and out of our hospice programs. Our hospice revenue and profitability could be materially reduced if we are unable to comply with this and other Medicare payment limitations. Our business is dependent on referral sources, which have no obligation to refer residents and patients to our skilled nursing centers, and our failure to maintain our existing referral sources, develop new relationships or achieve or maintain a reputation for providing high quality of care could materially adversely affect us. We rely on referrals from physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers to provide our skilled nursing centers with our patient population. These referral sources are not obligated to refer business to us and may refer business to other long-term care providers. If we fail to maintain our existing referral sources, fail to develop new relationships or fail to achieve or maintain a reputation for providing high quality of care, our patient population, payor mix, revenue and profitability could be materially adversely affected. Providers of commercial insurance and other nongovernmental payors are increasingly seeking to control costs, which efforts could materially adversely impact our revenues. Private insurers are seeking to control healthcare costs through direct contracts with healthcare providers, and reviews of the propriety of, and charges for, services provided. These private payors are increasingly demanding discounted fee structures. These cost control efforts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. We face national, regional and local competition, which could materially limit our ability to attract and retain residents or to expand our business. The healthcare industry is highly competitive and subject to continual changes in the methods by which services are provided and the types of companies providing services. Our nursing centers compete primarily on a local and regional basis with many long-term care providers, some of whom may own as few as a single nursing center. Our ability to compete successfully varies from location to location depending on a number of factors, including the number of competing centers in the local market, the types of services available, quality of care, reputation, age and appearance of each center and the cost of care in each locality. Our rehabilitation, staffing and hospice businesses also face significant competition from local and regional providers. Increased competition in the future could limit our ability to attract and retain residents or to expand our business. State efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of healthcare providers could impair our ability to expand our operations or make acquisitions. Some states require healthcare providers (including skilled nursing centers, hospices and assisted living centers) to obtain prior approval, in the form of a CON, for the purchase, construction or expansion of healthcare 11 SUN HEALTHCARE GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES centers; capital expenditures exceeding a prescribed amount; or changes in services or bed capacity. To the extent that we are unable to obtain any required CON or other similar approvals, our expansion could be materially adversely affected. We cannot make any assurances that we will be able to obtain a CON or other similar approval for any future projects requiring this approval. We may be unable to reduce costs to offset completely any decreases in our revenues. Reduced levels of occupancy in our healthcare centers or reductions in reimbursements from Medicare and Medicaid could materially adversely impact our cash flow and revenues. Fluctuations in occupancy levels may become more common as we increase our emphasis on patients with shorter stays but higher acuities. If we are unable to put in place corresponding adjustments in costs in response to declines in census or other revenue shortfalls, we will be unable to prevent future decreases in earnings. Our centers are able to reduce some of their costs as occupancy decreases, although the decrease in costs will in most cases be less than the decrease in revenues. However, our centers are not able to reduce their costs of providing care to offset a decrease in reimbursement revenues from federal and state programs. We continue to be adversely affected by an industry-wide shortage of qualified center care-provider personnel and increasing labor costs. We, like other providers in the long-term care industry, have had and continue to have difficulties in retaining qualified personnel to staff our healthcare centers, particularly nurses, and in such situations we may be required to use temporary employment agencies to provide additional personnel. The labor costs are generally higher for temporary employees than for full-time employees. In addition, many states in which we operate have increased minimum staffing standards. As minimum staffing standards are increased, we may be required to retain additional staffing. In addition, in recent years we have experienced increases in our labor costs primarily due to higher wages and greater benefits required to attract and retain qualified personnel and to increase staffing levels in our centers. A similar situation exists in the rehabilitation therapy industry. We, like other providers in the long-term care industry, have had and continue to have difficulties in hiring a sufficient number of rehabilitation therapists. Under these circumstances, we, like others in this industry, have been required to offer higher compensation to attract and retain these personnel, and we have been forced to rely on independent contractors, at higher costs, to fulfill our contractual commitments with our customers. Existing contractual commitments, regulatory limitations and the market for these services have made it difficult for us to pass through these increased costs to our customers. Our business may be adversely impacted by labor union activity. As of December 31, 2010, we had 29,992 employees, of which 9.4% are represented by unions. Collective bargaining agreements covering 5.3% of all our employees either are currently in renegotiations or will shortly be in renegotiations due to the expiration of the collective bargaining agreements. At this time, we are unable to predict the outcome of the negotiations, but increases in salaries, wages and benefits could result from renegotiated agreements. No assurances can be made that we will not in the future experience these and other types of conflicts with labor unions or our employees generally. We are unable to predict the outcome of future union organizing activities by labor unions and employees. To the extent a greater portion of our employee base unionizes, our labor costs could increase materially. If we are unable to meet minimum staffing standards, we may be subject to fines or other sanctions and increased costs, which could materially adversely affect our profitability. 12 SUN HEALTHCARE GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Increased attention to the quality of care provided in skilled nursing centers has caused several states to mandate, and other states to consider mandating, minimum staffing laws that require minimum nursing hours of direct care per resident per day. These minimum staffing requirements further increase the gap between demand for and supply of qualified professionals, and lead to higher labor costs. Failure to comply with minimum staffing requirements can result in lawsuits seeking significant damages, fines and requirements that we provide a plan of correction. Our ability to satisfy minimum staffing requirements depends upon our ability to attract and retain qualified healthcare professionals, including nurses, certified nurse’s assistants and other personnel. Attracting and retaining these personnel is difficult given existing shortages of these employees in the labor markets in which we operate. Furthermore, if states do not appropriate additional funds (through Medicaid program appropriations or otherwise) sufficient to pay for any additional operating costs resulting from minimum staffing requirements, our profitability could be materially adversely affected. If we lose our key management personnel, we may not be able to successfully manage our business and achieve our objectives, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. Our future success depends in large part upon the leadership and performance of our executive management team and key employees at the operating level. If we lose the services of any of our executive officers or any of our key employees at the operating or regional level, we may not be able to replace them with similarly qualified personnel, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. We could be materially adversely affected by our level of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2010, we had indebtedness of $156.0 million, a $60.0 million revolving credit facility ($30.0 million of which may be utilized for letters credit, but undrawn at December 31, 2010) and a $75.0 million letter of credit facility ($66.2 million outstanding at December 31, 2010) funded by proceeds of additional term loans. The level of our indebtedness could have adverse consequences to us, such as requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our debt, limiting our ability to fund, and potentially increasing the cost of funding, working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate requirements and making us more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions. If we fail to comply with the payment requirements or financial covenants contained in our debt agreements, we would be required to seek waivers from our lenders. Seeking these waivers may be difficult or expensive to obtain and, if we fail to obtain any necessary waivers, the resulting default would allow the lenders to accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. An increase in market interest rates could increase our interest costs on existing and future debt and could adversely affect our stock price. If interest rates increase, so could our interest costs for any new debt. This increased cost could make the financing of any acquisition more costly. We may incur more variable interest rate indebtedness in the future. Rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures, or cause us to pay higher interest rates upon refinancing and increased interest expense on refinanced indebtedness. Covenants in our debt agreements may limit our operational flexibility, and a covenant breach could materially adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations. 13 SUN HEALTHCARE GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES The agreements governing our indebtedness contain customary covenants that include restrictions on our ability to make acquisitions and other investments, pay dividends, incur additional indebtedness and make capital expenditures. These restrictions may limit our operational flexibility or require us to approach our lenders for consent to allow us to implement our business plans. Such a consent could be difficult or expensive to obtain. Our failure to comply with such restrictions and other covenants could materially adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations or our ability to incur additional indebtedness or refinance existing indebtedness. We continue to seek acquisitions and other strategic opportunities, which may result in the use of a significant amount of management resources or significant costs and we may not be able to fully realize the potential benefit of such transactions. We continue to seek acquisitions and other strategic opportunities. Accordingly, we are often engaged in evaluating potential transactions and other strategic alternatives. In addition, from time to time, we may engage in discussions that may result in one or more transactions. Although there is uncertainty that any of these discussions will result in definitive agreements or the completion of any transaction, we may devote a significant amount of our management resources to such a transaction, which could negatively impact our operations. In addition, we may incur significant costs in connection with seeking acquisitions or other strategic opportunities regardless of whether the transaction is completed and in combining our operations if such a transaction is completed. In the event that we consummate an acquisition or strategic alternative in the future, there is no assurance that we would fully realize the potential benefit of such a transaction. We lease substantially all of our centers and could experience risks relating to lease termination, lease extensions, and special charges, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. We face risks because of the number of centers that we lease. We currently lease 195 of the 200 healthcare centers operated by our subsidiaries as of December 31, 2010. Each of our lease agreements provides that the lessor may terminate the lease for a number of reasons, including, subject to applicable cure periods, the default in any payment of rent, taxes or other payment obligations or the breach of any other covenant or agreement in the lease. Termination of any of our lease agreements could result in a default under our debt agreements and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. Although we believe that we will be able to renew our lease agreements that we wish to extend, there is no assurance that we will succeed in obtaining extensions in the future at rental rates and on other terms that we believe to be reasonable, or at all. Our high percentage of leased centers limits our ability to exit markets. As a result, if some centers should prove to be unprofitable, we could remain obligated for lease payments even if we decided to withdraw from those locations. We could incur special charges relating to the closing of such centers including lease termination costs, impairment charges and other special charges that would reduce our profits and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. Natural disasters and other adverse events may harm our centers and residents. Our centers and residents may suffer harm as a result of natural or other causes, such as storms, earthquakes, floods, fires and other conditions. Such events can disrupt our operations, negatively affect our revenues, and increase our costs or result in a future impairment charge. For example, nine of our healthcare centers are in Florida, which is prone to hurricanes, and 16 of our centers and our executive offices are in California, which is prone to earthquakes. Environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with our centers may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. 14 SUN HEALTHCARE GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental and health and safety laws and regulations with respect to our centers. These laws and regulations address various matters, including asbestos, fuel oil management, wastewater discharges, air emissions, medical wastes and hazardous wastes. The costs of complying with these laws and regulations and the penalties for non-compliance can be substantial. For example, with respect to our owned and leased property, we may be held liable for costs relating to the investigation and clean up of any of our owned or leased properties from which there has been a release or threatened release of a regulated material as well as other properties affected by the release. In addition to these costs, which are typically not limited by law or regulation and could exceed the property’s value, we could be liable for certain other costs, including governmental fines and injuries to persons, property or natural resources. Further, some environmental laws create a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and the costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. Such environmental compliance costs and liabilities may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. Our ability to use our net operating losses (“NOLs”) and other tax attributes to offset future taxable income could be limited by an ownership change and/or decisions by California and other states to suspend the use of NOLs. We have significant NOLs, tax credits and amortizable goodwill available to offset our future U.S. federal and state taxable income. Our ability to utilize these NOLs and other tax attributes may be subject to significant limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), and applicable state law if we undergo an ownership change. An ownership change occurs for purposes of Section 382 of the Code if certain events occur, including 5% stockholders (i.e., stockholders who own or have owned 5% or more of our stock (with certain groups of less-than-5% stockholders treated as single stockholders for this purpose)) increasing their aggregate percentage ownership of our stock by more than fifty percentage points above the lowest percentage of the stock owned by these stockholders at any time during the relevant testing period. An issuance of shares of our common stock in connection with acquisitions or for any other reason can contribute to or result in an ownership change under Section 382. Stock ownership for purposes of Section 382 of the Code is determined under a complex set of attribution rules, so that a person is treated as owning stock directly, indirectly (i.e., through certain entities) and constructively (through certain related persons and certain unrelated persons acting as a group). In the event of an ownership change, Section 382 imposes an annual limitation (based upon our value at the time of the ownership change, as determined under Section 382 of the Code) on the amount of taxable income and tax liabilities a corporation may offset with NOLs and other tax attributes, such as tax credit carryforwards. Any unused annual limitation may be carried over to later years until the applicable expiration date for the respective NOL and tax credit carryforwards. As a result, our inability to utilize these NOLs or credits as a result of any ownership changes could materially adversely impact our business, financial position or results of operations. In addition, California and certain states have suspended use of NOLs for certain taxable years, and other states are considering similar measures. As a result, we may incur higher state income tax expense in the future. Depending on our future tax position, continued suspension of our ability to use NOLs in states in which we are subject to income tax could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial position or results of operations. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis. We are required to maintain internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Rule 13a-15 under the Exchange Act. Failure to maintain such controls could result in misstatements in our financial statements and potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities or could cause us 15 SUN HEALTHCARE GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES to delay the filing of required reports with the SEC and our reporting of financial results. Any of these events could result in a decline in the price of shares of our common stock. Although we have taken steps to maintain our internal control structure as required, we cannot assure you that control deficiencies will not result in a misstatement in the future. We do not expect to pay any dividends for the foreseeable future, which will affect the extent to which our investors realize any future gains on their investment. We are currently prohibited by the terms of our senior credit facility from paying dividends to holders of our common stock. We do not anticipate paying any other dividends in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. Delaware law and provisions in our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, Amended and Restated Bylaws and our stockholder rights plan may delay or prevent takeover attempts by third parties and therefore inhibit our stockholders from realizing a premium on their stock. We are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the “DGCL”). This section prevents any stockholder who owns 15% or more of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations with us for a period of three years following the time that the stockholder acquired such stock ownership unless certain approvals were or are obtained from our board of directors or the holders of 66 2/3 % of our outstanding common stock (excluding the shares of our common stock owned by the 15% or more stockholder). Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws also contain several other provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions include (i) advance notice for raising business or making director nominations at meetings, (ii) an affirmative vote of the holders of 66 2/3 % of our outstanding common stock for stockholders to remove directors or amend our Amended and Restated Bylaws or certain provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and (iii) the ability to issue “blank check” preferred stock, which our board of directors, without stockholder approval, can designate and issue with such dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights, including the right to issue convertible securities. The issuance of blank check preferred stock may adversely affect the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock as our board of directors may designate and issue preferred stock with terms that are senior to shares of our common stock. Our board of directors can use these and other provisions to discourage, delay or prevent a change in the control of the Company or a change in our management. Any delay or prevention of a change in control transaction or a change in our board of directors or management could deter potential acquirers or prevent the completion of a transaction in which our stockholders could receive a substantial premium over the current market price for their shares. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 16 SUN HEALTHCARE GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 