Item 1A. Risk Factors Information provided in this Annual Report on Form 10-K ("Annual Report") contains "forward-looking" information as that term is defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the "Act"). All statements regarding our expected future financial position, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity, financing plans, business strategy, budgets, the impact of changes in government reimbursement programs, projected costs and capital expenditures, competitive position, growth opportunities, plans and objectives of management for future operations and words such as "anticipate," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may" and other similar expressions are forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements, which are being made pursuant to the provisions of the Act and with the intention of obtaining the benefits of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Act. We caution 10 SUN HEALTHCARE GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES investors that any forward-looking statements made by us are not guarantees of future performance and that actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including, but not limited to, those set forth below and elsewhere herein. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update our forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results in future periods to differ materially from those projected or contemplated in the forward-looking statements as a result of, but not limited to, the factors set forth below. You should carefully consider the risks described herein. There may be additional risks of which we are presently unaware or that we currently deem immaterial. Reductions in the reimbursement rates paid by Medicare and Medicaid agencies, and adverse changes in our payor mix could reduce our net earnings, and future reform legislation may directly impact our business. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we derived 78.3% of our inpatient revenues from continuing operations (including Peak for the month of December) from Medicare and Medicaid. Federal and state governments continue to focus on methods to curb spending on health care programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, and have implemented or proposed to implement changes that will or could adversely affect our reimbursements. For example, among other things, (i) two temporary add-on payments were eliminated, the number of resource utilization group ("RUG") categories was increased from 44 to 53, and the nursing case-mix weight for all 53 RUG categories was increased; (ii) "therapy caps" were implemented to limit the amount of Medicare Part B reimbursement we receive for providing rehabilitation therapy, and an exceptions process for Medicare beneficiaries who require medically necessary services in excess of the therapy caps was developed; (iii) Medicaid coverage of prescription drugs for Medicare beneficiaries who are also eligible for Medicaid, referred to as "dual eligibles", was shifted to the new Part D Medicare program; and (iv) President Bush's budget proposal for the federal fiscal year beginning October 1, 2006 contains changes that, if enacted as proposed, would materially adversely affect our skilled nursing facilities. See Item 7 - "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Revenues from Medicare, Medicaid and Other Sources" for a discussion of these changes and other changes to our Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements. In addition, the amount of our revenues is determined by a number of factors, including the mix of residents and patients and the rates of reimbursement among payors. Changes in the case mix of the residents and patients as well as payor mix among private pay, Medicare and Medicaid can affect our profitability. For instance, a significant increase in our Medicaid population could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flow, especially if states operating these programs continue to limit, or more aggressively seek limits on, reimbursement rates. In recent years, there have been numerous initiatives on the federal and state levels for comprehensive reforms affecting the payment for and availability of healthcare services. There can be no assurance as to the ultimate content, timing or effect of any healthcare reform legislation, nor is it possible at this time to estimate the impact of potential legislation on us. That impact may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to a number of lawsuits and rely primarily on self-funded insurance programs for general and professional liability claims against us. Skilled nursing facility operators, including SunBridge and our other inpatient services subsidiaries, are subject to lawsuits alleging negligence resulting in injury or death to residents of the facilities. We currently have numerous patient care lawsuits pending against us, as well as other types of lawsuits, many of which relate to facilities that we no longer operate. Adverse determinations in legal proceedings, whether currently asserted or 11 SUN HEALTHCARE GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES arising in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. See Item 3 - "Legal Proceedings." We self-insure for the majority of our insurable risks, including general and professional liability, workers' compensation liability and employee health insurance liability, through the use of self-insurance or retrospective and self-funded insurance policies and other hybrid policies, which vary by the states in which we operate. Since January 2000, we have relied upon self-funded insurance programs for general and professional liability claims up to a base amount per claim and an aggregate per location, which amounts we are responsible for funding, and we have obtained excess insurance policies for claims above those amounts. The programs have the following coverages that we are responsible for self-funding: (i) for events occurring from January 1, 2000 to December 31, 2002, $1.0 million per claim, and $3.0 million aggregate per location; (ii) for claims made in 2003, $10.0 million per claim; and (iii) for claims made in 2004, 2005 and 2006, $10.0 million per claim, with a single $5.0 million excess layer that attaches at $5.0 million of liability. There is a risk that the amounts funded to our programs of self-insurance and future cash flows may not be sufficient to respond to all claims asserted under those programs. At December 31, 2005, we had recorded reserves of $86.5 million for general and professional liability risks, but we had only pre-funded $3.6 million for such claims. We can give no assurances that a claim in excess of our insurance coverage limits will not arise. A claim against us that is not covered by, or is in excess of, our coverage limits provided by our excess insurance policies could have a material adverse effect upon us. Furthermore, we cannot give assurance that we will be able to obtain additional adequate liability insurance in the future or that, if such insurance is available, it will be available on acceptable terms. Our healthcare operations are extensively regulated and adverse determinations against us could result in severe penalties, including loss of licensure and decertification. In the ordinary course of business, we are continuously subject to a wide variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations and to state and federal regulatory scrutiny, supervision and control in various areas, including referral of patients, false claims under Medicare and Medicaid, health and safety laws and the protection of health information. Such regulatory scrutiny often includes inquiries, civil and criminal investigations, examinations, audits, site visits and surveys, some of which are non-routine. See Item 1 - "Business - - Federal and State Regulatory Oversight" and Item 3 - "Legal Proceedings." If we are found to have engaged in improper practices, we could be subject to civil, administrative or criminal fines, penalties or restitutionary relief or corporate settlement agreements with federal, state or local authorities, and reimbursement authorities could also seek our suspension or exclusion from participation in their program. The exclusion of a facility from participating in Medicare or Medicaid could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We have in the past sustained losses, and may not be able to maintain profitability or generate sufficient operating cash flow to fund our operations. Although we reported net income of $24.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, we incurred net losses of $18.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. Since emerging from bankruptcy in 2002 and until recently, our operations have not generated sufficient cash flow to operate our businesses, and, as a result, we funded operations through a combination of the proceeds of equity offerings and borrowings under a revolving credit facility. We generated positive cash flow from operations during the second half of 2005 and we anticipate positive cash flow from operations for 2006. We face national, regional and local competition. The healthcare industry is highly competitive and subject to continual changes in the method by which services are provided and the types of companies providing services. Our ability to compete successfully varies from location to location depending on a number of factors, including the number of competing facilities in the local 12 SUN HEALTHCARE GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES market, the types of services available, quality of care, reputation, age and appearance of each facility and the cost of care in each locality. In addition, competition with other providers of rehabilitation therapy services has constrained our ability to pass through increases in costs of providing such services. We may not be able to successfully identify, complete and integrate future acquisitions, which could harm our profitability. Our strategy includes expanding through strategic acquisitions. Successful acquisitions require us to correctly identify appropriate acquisition candidates and to integrate acquired operations with our own, and a failure in either of those tasks would likely result in our inability to realize the benefits we intended to derive from the acquisition. Even if we identify suitable targets, we may be unable to complete acquisitions on terms favorable to us or obtain the necessary financing for these acquisitions. Further, to the extent we complete acquisitions and expansion initiatives, we may be unable to realize the anticipated benefits from acquisitions and expansions because of operational factors or difficulty in integrating the acquisition or expansion with our existing business. Acquisitions may also divert our management from operating our existing business. We can give no assurance that we will be able successfully to identify, complete, and integrate strategic acquisitions. Also, we are generally required to obtain regulatory approval from one or more state agencies when making acquisitions. In the case of an acquisition of a business located in a state in which we do not already operate, we are required to obtain the necessary licenses to operate in that state. In addition, although we may already operate in a state in which we acquire a new business, we will be required to obtain regulatory approval if, as a result of the acquisition, we will operate in an area of the state in which we did not operate previously. We may be unable to comply with these regulatory requirements for an acquisition in a timely manner, or at all. We continue to be affected by an industry-wide shortage of qualified facility care-provider personnel and increasing labor costs. We, and other providers in the long-term care industry, have had and continue to have difficulties in retaining qualified personnel to staff our long-term care facilities, particularly nurses, and in such situations we may be required to use temporary employment agencies to provide additional personnel. The labor costs are generally higher for temporary employees than for full-time employees. In addition, many states in which we operate have increased minimum staffing standards. As minimum staffing standards are increased, we may be required to retain additional staffing. In addition, in recent years we have experienced increases in our labor costs primarily due to higher wages and greater benefits required to attract and retain qualified personnel and to increase staffing levels in our long-term and subacute care facilities. A similar situation exists in the rehabilitation therapy industry. We, and other providers, have had and continue to have difficulties in hiring a sufficient number of rehabilitation therapists. Under these circumstances, we and others in this industry have been required to offer higher compensation to attract and retain these personnel, and we have been forced to rely on independent contractors, at higher costs, to fulfill our contractual commitments with our customers. Existing contractual commitments, regulatory limitations and the market for these services have made it difficult for us to pass through these increased costs to our customers. Although we have undertaken strategic and structural initiatives to address these issues, if these initiatives are unsuccessful, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. If we lose our key management personnel, we may not be able to successfully manage our business and achieve our objectives. Our future success depends in large part upon the leadership and performance of our executive management team, particularly Richard K. Matros, our chief executive officer, and key employees at the operating level. If we lose the services of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, or if one or more of them decides to 13 SUN HEALTHCARE GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives. If we lose the services of any of our key employees at the operating or regional level, we may not be able to replace them with similarly qualified personnel, which could harm our business. As a result of our acquisition of Peak, certain of Peak's former stockholders may have substantial influence over us. As a result of our acquisition of Peak, RFE Investment Partners V. L.P. and RFE VI SBIC, L.P. (collectively, "RFE") and DFW Capital Partners, L.P. ("DFW") have substantial ownership interests in our company. RFE and DFW beneficially own 19.0% and 6.8%, respectively, of our common stock. In addition, RFE and DFW have each nominated one of our current directors. So long as RFE, on the one hand, or DFW, on the other hand, owns at least 50% of the shares of our common stock it acquired in the Peak acquisition, RFE or DFW, as the case may be, will have the right to nominate successors to its nominee to our Board of Directors. Thus, RFE and DFW, as stockholders, may have the ability to influence our strategic direction and may be able to influence the outcome of all matters, transactions and corporate actions that require approval by our stockholders, other than the election of directors (except for the nominees of RFE and DFW), as to which they have agreed to vote their shares of our common stock in the same proportion as our other stockholders. The interests of RFE and DFW may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders. This concentration of stock ownership may also have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of our company, which could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, this concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the market price of our common stock because investors may perceive disadvantages in owning stock in a company with significant stockholders. We do not expect to pay any dividends for the foreseeable future. We are currently prohibited by the terms of our Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement dated December 2, 2005 (the "Revolving Loan Agreement") from paying dividends to holders of our common stock, and do not anticipate that we will pay any dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Delaware law and provisions in our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws may delay or prevent takeover attempts by third parties and therefore inhibit our stockholders from realizing a premium on their stock. We are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. This section prevents any stockholder who owns 15% or more of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations with us for a period of three years following the time that the stockholder acquired such stock ownership unless certain approvals were or are obtained from our Board of Directors or the holders of 66-2/3% of our outstanding common stock. Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws also contain several other provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of our Board of Directors. These provisions include, among other things, (i) advance notice for raising business or making nominations at meetings, (ii) an affirmative vote of the holders of 66-2/3% of our outstanding common stock for stockholders to remove directors or amend our Amended and Restated Bylaws or certain provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, and (iii) the ability to issue "blank check" preferred stock, which our Board of Directors, without stockholder approval, can designate and issue with such dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights, including the right to issue convertible securities with no limitations on conversion. The issuance of blank check preferred stock may adversely affect the voting and other rights of the 14 SUN HEALTHCARE GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES holders of our common stock as our Board of Directors may designate and issue preferred stock with terms that are senior to our common stock. Our Board of Directors can use these and other provisions to discourage, delay or prevent a change in the control of our company or a change in our management. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or a change in our Board of Directors or management could deter potential acquirors or prevent the completion of a transaction in which our stockholders could receive a substantial premium over the then current market price for their shares. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 