ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are certain factors that could affect our future results. They should be considered in connection with evaluating forward-looking statements made by us because these factors could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from the outcomes and results as expressed in those forward-looking statements. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We expect to continue to incur significant operating losses for the next several years and we may never become profitable. We have had operating losses since our inception, and we expect losses to continue for the next several years. From our inception in 1993 to December 28, 2008, we have incurred cumulative losses of approximately $304 million. These losses have resulted principally from the costs of our research and development activities. Our net losses for fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006 have been $22.7 million, $36.3 million and $35.3 million, respectively. We expect to continue incurring significant operating losses for at least the next several years. We may never receive material revenues from product sales or become profitable. Our current resources are only sufficient to fund our operations in the short term, which raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. As of December 28, 2008, we had $11.6 million in cash and cash equivalents, which were offset by our $16.1 million in current liabilities. We expect our current cash resources and potential future cash payments from existing collaborations and licensing programs to be sufficient to fund operations into the second quarter of 2009. We have received an audit report from our independent registered public accounting firm containing an explanatory paragraph stating that our historical recurring losses from operations and limited funds raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We will have to obtain additional equity or debt financing or payments from new and existing partnering collaborations, or funding from a combination of these sources, to fund a sufficient number of our clinical development plans through to regulatory approval to allow us to be self-sustaining. 13 Table of Contents We may be unable to raise the additional capital needed to develop and commercialize our product programs successfully. We will need additional capital to fund our operations, including research and development, manufacturing and commercialization. In order to develop and bring our transgenically produced products to market, we and our collaboration partners must commit substantial resources to costly and time-consuming research, preclinical testing and clinical trials. If we do not have or cannot raise additional capital when needed, we would be forced to delay, scale back or eliminate one or more of our research and development programs of our farm operations. Our drug development programs and the further development of ATryn® will require substantial additional cash to fund expenses that we will incur in connection with preclinical studies and clinical trials, regulatory review, manufacturing and sales and marketing efforts. Our cash requirements may vary materially from those now planned, depending upon the results of our research and development programs, competitive and technological advances, the terms of future collaborations, regulatory requirements and other factors. We expect we will need to obtain additional financing, through public or private sources, including debt or equity financing, in addition to any funding obtained through collaborative or other arrangements with corporate partners. Depending on the state of the capital markets, interest rates, our financial profile and other factors at that time, we may not be able to obtain adequate funds on acceptable terms when needed. If we raise capital through the sale of equity, or securities convertible into equity, existing shareholders’ proportionate ownership in us will be reduced. Our collaboration partners may fail to perform satisfactorily or may terminate our collaboration agreements. We are dependent on our collaboration partners for the development and commercialization of our approved product and our lead product candidates. We do not have adequate resources to develop our products and product candidates on our own. We also have neither the experience nor capabilities to sell, market or distribute products. We currently have a collaboration agreement with OVATION, which has recently agreed to be acquired by Lundbeck, to develop and market ATryn® and a collaboration agreement with LFB to develop selected recombinant plasma proteins and MAbs. We are in the process of trying to transition our collaboration with LEO to another party. We also plan to enter into additional collaborations with other partners to develop and commercialize current and future products and product candidates. The performance of our collaboration partners is not within our control. For example, • we may not be able to ensure that our collaboration partners dedicate sufficient time and resources to successfully meet their obligations under our collaboration agreements; • disputes may arise between us and our partners that may result in the delay or termination of the development or commercialization of products or product candidates or that may subject us to costly litigation or arbitration; • our collaboration partners may experience financial difficulties or undergo business combinations or significant changes in corporate strategy that may adversely affect their ability or willingness to meet their obligations under our collaboration agreements; and • our collaboration partners may not adequately maintain and protect, or may improperly use, our proprietary information, which could jeopardize our intellectual property rights or subject us to costly litigation or arbitration. We depend on collaboration agreements for our current revenue and significant funding. Our revenues and business strategy depend largely on our entering into additional development and marketing agreements with third parties as well as existing agreements for our own therapeutic compounds. We may not be able to establish these agreements on commercially acceptable terms, if at all, depending on the market position of our technology and our compounds. The willingness of potential collaborators to enter into agreements with us depends on factors such as the perceived technological or economic advantages of transgenic production and our ability to structure a mutually acceptable collaboration arrangement. For existing and future development agreements, the collaborations may ultimately be unsuccessful, our partners could terminate the agreements or the agreements could expire before meaningful developmental milestones are reached. Depending upon the terms of any future collaborations, our role in the collaboration will often be limited to the production aspects of the proteins. As a result, we may also be dependent on collaborators for other aspects of the development of any transgenically produced product, including preclinical and clinical testing and regulatory approval, and marketing and distribution. The majority of our collaborations to date have been external programs that involve proteins proprietary to our partners. Much of the continuing revenue, if any, that we may receive under these collaborations will depend upon our partners’ willingness and ability to successfully develop and commercially introduce, market and sell the version of the collaborator’s product derived from our transgenic production systems. Our partners may choose competitive production technologies or competitive products outside of their collaborations with us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The failure of any external collaboration could have a material adverse effect on our business. 14 Table of Contents We may fail to obtain the necessary regulatory approval to market and sell our transgenically produced products in the United States or in other countries. Before we can market or sell any transgenically produced drug or biological products that we or our collaborators develop, we must receive regulatory approvals from federal, state and local governmental authorities, including the FDA and corresponding agencies in other countries, such as the European Medicines Agency, or EMEA, in Europe. We received our only regulatory approvals of any of our transgenically produced products in August 2006 from the European Commission for use of ATryn® as a prophylactic treatment of patients with hereditary antithrombin deficiency undergoing surgical procedures and from the FDA in February 2009 for surgical procedures and childbirth. Our Marketing Authorization Application for ATryn® was approved by the European Commission under exceptional circumstances, meaning that the license must be renewed on an annual basis as opposed to every five years, with certain post approval obligations that must be fulfilled to maintain approval. In addition, continuing marketing authorization approval must be obtained on an annual basis. The required regulatory approvals process for our transgenically produced products may take several years to complete and is expensive and uncertain. It is possible that the FDA or any other regulatory authority may not act quickly or favorably on our requests for approval or may require us to provide additional data that we may not have then available. For example, the FDA may impose restrictions and demands on our clinical trials that require additional resources and result in unexpected delays. In addition, the FDA may require us to conduct further clinical trials and post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the effects of approved products. The FDA or other regulatory authorities may also place conditions on approval that could restrict the commercial applications of such products. Failure to comply with extensive FDA or similar regulations may result in delay, suspension or cancellation of a trial or a regulatory authority’s refusal to accept test results. Regulatory authorities may have varying interpretations of our pre-clinical and clinical trial data, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval or clearance. Because transgenically produced products represent novel therapeutic products, the process for regulatory approval is unproven. There may be additional delays in regulatory approval due to issues arising from the breeding of transgenic animals and the use of proteins derived from them. Any delays or difficulties in obtaining regulatory approval or clearance for transgenically produced products may: • adversely affect the marketing of any transgenically produced products we or our collaborators develop; • impose significant additional costs on us or our collaborators; • diminish any competitive advantages that we or our collaborators may attain; and • limit our ability to receive royalties and generate revenue and profits. If we do not receive regulatory approvals for our transgenically produced products in a timely manner, we will not be able to commercialize our products, or their commercialization may be limited or delayed and, therefore, our business and stock price will suffer. In addition to traditional regulatory review by the FDA, the FDA established guidance for New Animal Drug Applications to be submitted to permit review by the Center for Veterinary Medicine of technologies such as ours where animals have additional DNA incorporated into their genome. This NADA review is focused on control of the transgene, the health of the animals involved, and any environmental impact. Although the ATryn® program was reviewed and approved under an NADA and all elements of our care and use of animals were deemed to meet the standards required for approval, there is no guarantee that we will continue to meet NADA standards in future periods or for future products. Even if we receive regulatory approval for our transgenically produced products, the FDA or similar agencies in other countries may impose limitations on the indicated uses for which our products may be marketed and sold. These limitations could reduce the size of the potential market for a product. Failure to comply with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements could result in, among other things, warning letters, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, refusal of the government to renew our marketing applications and criminal prosecution. Our clinical trials of our transgenically produced products may be unsuccessful or delayed, which may prevent us from meeting our anticipated development timeline. We and our collaborators must demonstrate through preclinical and clinical trials that our transgenically produced products are safe and effective for use in humans. Clinical trials are expensive and may take several years. Several factors could prevent or delay completion of these trials, including an inability to enroll the required number of patients or demonstrate adequately the safety or efficacy of the product for humans. If safety concerns develop, regulatory authorities could stop or delay our trials. Furthermore, the results from early clinical trials are often not predictive of results in later clinical trials. 15 Table of Contents To our knowledge, Pharming is the only other entity to have completed human clinical trials of a transgenically produced product. If we are unable to complete all clinical trials and to satisfy other requirements that may be required by the FDA, or the EMEA for expanded indications of ATryn®, or if any of our other transgenically produced proteins in development are not proved to be safe or effective to the satisfaction of regulatory authorities, it would have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Any transgenically produced products for which we obtain regulatory approval will be subject to continuing review and extensive regulatory requirements, which could affect their manufacture and marketing. If and when the FDA or other foreign agencies approve any of our transgenically produced products under development, the manufacture and marketing of these products will be subject to continuing regulation and product approvals may be withdrawn if problems occur after initial approval. Post-approval regulation includes compliance with current Quality Systems Regulations and Good Manufacturing Practices, known as QSR/GMP, adverse event reporting requirements and prohibitions on promoting a product for unapproved uses. We will also be required to obtain additional approvals for any significant alterations in the product’s labeling or manufacturing process. Enforcement actions resulting from failure to comply with QSR/GMP requirements could result in fines, suspensions of approvals, recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, and affect the manufacture and marketing of our transgenically produced products. The FDA or other regulatory agencies could withdraw a previously approved product from the market upon receipt of newly discovered information, including a failure to comply with regulatory requirements and the occurrence of unanticipated problems with products following approval. Any of these withdrawals could adversely affect our operating results. We have limited manufacturing capability and may be required to rely on third party contract manufacturers to purify and formulate our transgenically produced products. We currently have the capability to purify pre-clinical and clinical trial quantities of our transgenically produced products up to and including Phase II trials. We also rely upon third party manufacturers to purify and formulate significant pre-clinical, clinical and commercial quantities of our transgenically produced products. We depend on these third party manufacturers to perform their obligations in a timely manner and in accordance with applicable government regulations in order to conduct our clinical trials or commercialize any of our products. For example, we had to write off $2.9 million of ATryn® inventory in 2007 which was rendered unusable as a result of the fill/finish process conducted at a U.S.-based fill/finish contractor. We have terminated our contract with that contractor and now are only using MedImmune (Holland) for these services. There are very few third party manufacturers that have sufficient production capacity to manufacture all of our products either for our clinical trials or on a commercial scale. Our third party manufacturers may encounter difficulties, including problems involving: • inconsistent production yields; • poor quality control and assurance or inadequate process controls; • lack of compliance with FDA, EMEA and other regulations; and • high production costs. These contract manufacturers may not be able to manufacture our products at a cost or in quantities necessary to make them commercially viable. If we are unable to enter into agreements with additional manufacturers on commercially reasonable terms, or if there is poor performance on the part of our third party manufacturers, we may not be able to complete development of, or market, our transgenically produced products. We have contracted with Lonza Biologics for large scale purification and with Medimmune (Holland) for fill/finish services of our lead product, ATryn®. Although we have identified possible alternative suppliers with respect to these services for this product, interruptions in these services and the process of changing to an alternative manufacturer could have a material adverse effect on our timely ability to manufacture bulk delivery of ATryn® for delivery to our collaborators or to market distribution after regulatory approval. 16 Table of Contents Transgenically produced products may never become commercially successful. Even if our transgenically produced products are successfully developed and approved by the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies, they may not enjoy commercial acceptance or success, which would adversely affect our business and results of operations. Several factors could limit our success, including: • limited market acceptance among patients, physicians, medical centers and third party payors, including acceptance of products transgenically produced from animals; • our inability to access a sales force capable of marketing the product, either through a third party contract sales force or by establishing our own internal sales force; • our inability to supply a sufficient amount of product to meet market demand; • the number and relative efficacy of competitive products that may subsequently enter the market; and • the relative risk-benefit profile and cost-effectiveness of transgenically produced product designed to replace or supplement currently marketed non-transgenically produced products. In addition, it is possible that we or our collaborative partners will be unsuccessful in developing, marketing or implementing a commercialization strategy for any transgenically produced products. Our business may fail due to intense competition in our industry. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive and may become even more so. Some of our competitors have greater financial and human resources and more experience in research and development than we have. We will need to continue to devote substantial efforts and expense in research and development to maintain a competitive position for our transgenic production technology and potential product offerings. It is also possible that others will develop alternative technologies or products that will render our proposed products or technologies obsolete. We may encounter significant competition for our protein development and production capabilities from other companies. In addition, our potential transgenic production capabilities may face significant competition from biological products manufactured in cell culture or by other traditional protein production methods. Our business will also compete against other companies whose business is dedicated to offering transgenic production and with prospective customers or collaborators who decide to pursue such transgenic production internally. Competitors that complete clinical trials, obtain regulatory approvals and begin commercial sales of their products before us will enjoy a significant competitive advantage. We anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as new companies enter the market and alternative technologies become available. For ATryn®, a number of companies internationally produce and market antithrombin derived from human plasma. CSL Behring’s product has a significant share of the worldwide market, but is not approved for sale in the U.S. Talecris, which purchased Bayer’s plasma business and is being acquired by CSL, has a commercially available fractionated antithrombin product that is approved for sale in the U.S. Other companies, including Octapharma, CSL Behring, Grifols, Kedrion, Baxter International and LFB supply the European market with plasma-derived antithrombin products, none of which have been approved throughout the European Union. Like antithrombin, the alpha-1 antitrypsin sold today is derived from human plasma. Talecris has a significant presence in the U.S. with an alpha-1 antitrypsin product called Prolastin® which is approved for chronic use in patients with a genetic deficiency of alpha-1 antitrypsin who are prone to pulmonary disorders such as emphysema. Novo Nordisk is the manufacturer of the only available recombinant form of factor VIIa, NovoSeven®, which is approved for the treatment of hemophilia patients with inhibitors to factors VIII and IX. There are insignificant sales of various plasma-derived factor VIIa products for the treatment of these hemophilia patients. The NovoSeven® patents expire in 2011. To the extent that a market develops for transgenically produced therapeutic products generally, we may compete with other transgenic technology companies. Pharming and BioProtein Technologies are other companies known to us that are extensively engaged in the application of transgenic technology in mammals for the production of proteins for therapeutic use in humans. Pharming, based in the Netherlands, is primarily engaged in the development of recombinant proteins in the milk of transgenic cows and rabbits. Pharming reports that it has one product that has been submitted for review by the EMEA. Pharming has also submitted a request to the FDA to recognize their lactoferrin product as being safe for nutritional applications. BioProtein Technologies is a contract manufacturing organization specializing in the production of human therapeutic proteins and vaccines in the milk of transgenic rabbits. There are also other companies seeking to develop transgenic technology in animals and in plants, which may be competitive with our technology with respect to our patents and proprietary rights as discussed further below. In addition, it is possible that research and discoveries by others could render our transgenic technology obsolete or noncompetitive as a method of production for protein-based therapeutic products. 17 Table of Contents We may face public concerns about genetic engineering in animals. Our activities involve genetic engineering in animals. The success of our potential commercial products will depend in part on public acceptance of the use of genetic engineering. Public attitudes may be influenced by claims and perceptions that these types of activities are unsafe and our products may not gain the acceptance of the public or the medical community. Negative public reaction to genetic engineering activities in general could result in greater restrictive legislation and regulations involving nuclear transfer and other methodologies which could impede our ability to conduct our business efficiently, delay preclinical studies or future clinical trials, or prevent us or our partners from obtaining regulatory approvals or commercializing transgenically produced products. Our transgenically produced products may be subject to technology risks that may restrict or prevent their development and commercialization. Developing products based on transgenic technology is subject to significant development risks. Each DNA construct is unique and it is possible that it might not be expressed in the transgenic animal’s milk at a level that is commercially viable. Purifying the recombinant protein out of the milk to use as a biotherapeutic may be too difficult to be commercially feasible. In addition, production of the recombinant protein may have negative effects on the health of either the mammary gland or more systematically on the animal as a whole. This would compromise the ability of the animal to produce the recombinant protein. Directing the mammary gland to produce additional proteins in the milk could negatively affect lactation, thereby shutting down milk production. The mammary gland may also modify a protein in such a manner that it is non-functional or harmful in humans. It is also possible that there may be disease agents present in the animals that would prevent the use of products derived from these animals. If an as yet unknown disease was identified that could not be effectively mitigated, government agencies may confiscate or destroy the animals, or prevent the utilization of their milk. Any of these governmental actions would prevent the use of the recombinant proteins. We depend on patents and proprietary rights that may fail to protect our business. Our success will partly depend on our ability to obtain and maintain patent or other proprietary protection for our technologies, products and processes such as: • compositions of matter or processes; • processes developed by our employees; or • uses of compositions of matter discovered through our technology. We may not be able to obtain the necessary proprietary protection. Our success will also depend on our ability to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of other parties. Legal standards relating to the validity of patents covering pharmaceutical and biotechnological inventions and the scope of claims made under these patents are still developing. There is no consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents. The patent position of a biotechnology company is susceptible to uncertainty and involves complex legal and factual questions. We hold 24 issued or allowed U.S. patents and 202 corresponding foreign patents. Our patents generally expire between 2013 and 2015, with the exception being a recently issued patent in the United States, which expires in 2021. This patent provides us with claim coverage for the production of therapeutic proteins in the mammary glands of transgenic mammals. One in-licensed European patent, pertaining to transgenic animals secreting proteins in milk, expired in 2006. In accordance with ongoing research and development efforts, we have 29 pending U.S. patent applications and 81 corresponding foreign applications covering relevant and newly developed portions of our transgenic technology. Several of these pending applications are included in various cross-licensing or out-licensing arrangements with other companies that in turn provide access to their proprietary technologies. Specifically we have cross-licensed our proprietary technology for the production of proteins in milk to Pharming. Other technologies for which we hold existing patents include: protein purification from the milk of transgenic animals, the production of monoclonal and assembled antibodies at commercial levels in the milk of transgenic mammals and the production of recombinant antithrombin in the milk of transgenic goats. We cannot be certain that we will receive issued patents based on pending or future applications. Our issued patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against competitors with similar technology. Additionally, our patents, our partners’ patents and patents for which we have license rights may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented. Furthermore, rights granted under patents may not provide us with any competitive advantage. We may have to initiate arbitration or litigation to enforce our patent and license rights. If our competitors file patent applications that claim technology also claimed by us, we may have to participate in interference or opposition proceedings to determine the priority of invention. An adverse outcome could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties and require us to cease using the technology or to license the disputed rights from third parties. We may not be able to obtain any required licenses on commercially acceptable terms or at all. 18 Table of Contents The cost to us of any litigation or proceeding relating to patent rights, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any pending patent or related litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. An unfavorable result could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to cease using the affected processes or require us to license the disputed rights from third parties. For example, a key nuclear transfer patent that we licensed from a third party was invalidated in favor of a patent application now licensed to Start Licensing, Inc. In response to the ultimate resolution of that invalidation, we obtained a non-exclusive license from Start Licensing, Inc. for patents and patent applications developed to apply nuclear transfer to the production of therapeutic proteins in the milk of transgenic animals. If, unlike the Start Licensing example, we could not obtain a license to patented technology we need, or could only obtain a license on terms we consider to be unacceptable, or if we were unable to design our products or processes to avoid infringement of such patented technology, our business would be harmed. We rely on certain proprietary trade secrets and know-how that are not patentable. We have taken measures to protect our unpatented trade secrets and know-how, including having our employees, consultants and some contractors execute confidentiality agreements. These agreements could be breached. If so, it is possible that our remedies for a given breach might be inadequate. It is also possible that competitors emerge who could independently develop or discover our trade secrets or that the trade secrets could otherwise become known. We may not be able to recover from any catastrophic event affecting our animals or facilities. While we have measures in place to minimize and recover from catastrophic events that may substantially destroy our animal herd(s), these measures may not be adequate to recover our production processes quickly enough to support critical timelines, collaborator needs or market demands. These catastrophic events may include animal diseases that breach our biosecurity measures or weather events such as tornadoes, earthquakes or fires. In addition, these catastrophic events may render some or all of the products at the affected facilities unusable. Successful commercialization of our products will depend on obtaining coverage and reimbursement for use of the products from third-party payors. Sales of pharmaceutical products depend largely on the reimbursement of patients’ medical expenses by government health care programs and private health insurers. It is possible that third-party payors will not reimburse sales of our transgenically produced products. Reimbursement by third-party payors depends on a number of factors, including the payor’s determination that use of the product is safe and effective, not experimental or investigational, medically necessary, appropriate for the specific patient and cost-effective. Reimbursement in the United States or foreign countries may not be available or maintained for any of our products. If we do not obtain approvals for adequate third-party reimbursements, we may not be able to establish or maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our or our partners’ investment in product development. Any limits on reimbursement available from third-party payors may reduce the demand for, or negatively affect the price of, our or our partners’ products. Without the financial support of the government or third-party insurers, the market for transgenically produced products will be limited. The U.S. federal government and private insurers are continually working on ways to contain health care costs, particularly by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new therapeutic products. The government or private insurers may institute future price controls and other cost-containment measures on Medicare, Medicaid and other health care insurance spending. These controls and limits could affect the payments we collect from sales of our products. Internationally, medical reimbursement systems vary significantly, with some medical centers having fixed budgets, regardless of levels of patient treatment, and other countries requiring application for, and approval of, government or third-party reimbursement. Even if we or our partners succeed in bringing transgenically produced products to market, uncertainties regarding future health care policy, legislation and regulation, as well as private market practices, could affect our ability to sell our products in commercially acceptable quantities at profitable prices. The manufacture and sale of our products may expose us to product liability claims for which we could have substantial liability. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to testing of our transgenically produced products in human clinical trials and will face even greater risks when we commercialize our products. An individual may bring a product liability claim against us if one of our products causes, or is claimed to have caused, an injury or is found to be unsuitable for consumer use, even if the product involved is granted regulatory authorization for commercial sale. We have obtained product liability coverage for the clinical trials conducted to support the filing for marketing approval of ATryn® with the FDA through our own policies. Product liability insurance for commercial sales of ATryn® has been established by OVATION. It is possible that our insurance coverage will not be sufficient to cover any claim. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in: • liabilities that substantially exceed our product liability insurance, which we would then be required to pay from other sources, if available; 19 Table of Contents • an increase of our product liability insurance rates or the inability to maintain insurance coverage in the future on acceptable terms or at all; • damage to our reputation and the reputation of our products, resulting in lower sales; • regulatory investigations that could require costly recalls or product modifications; and • the diversion of management’s attention from managing our business. We may be unable to attract and retain qualified managerial and scientific personnel which could adversely affect our business and operations. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our scientific and management staff. Our success will depend in part on our ability to identify, attract and retain qualified managerial and scientific personnel. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in our industry. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain personnel with the advanced technical qualifications or managerial expertise necessary for the development of our business. If we fail to attract and retain key personnel, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have employment agreements with our executive officers, but these agreements do not guarantee that they will remain employed with us in the future. If we lose an executive officer, or a significant number of our staff, or are unable to hire and retain qualified personnel, then our ability to develop and commercialize our products and processes may be delayed or impaired. We do not carry key personnel insurance. Our ability to negotiate with potential marketing partners may be limited by existing obligations. If we choose to commercialize ATryn® with an additional marketing partner outside of Asia, Genzyme Corporation has an exclusive first right of negotiation for commercialization rights. For any antithrombin product, this right is triggered on a product-by-product and market-by-market basis at such time as we make a submission to a regulatory authority for marketing approval in a given market. This right may delay our ability to negotiate a favorable agreement with a potential partner or distributor. This right does not apply if we have already entered into a collaboration or other agreement with a prospective research, development and exclusive marketing partner prior to such regulatory submission. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, investors may lose confidence in our financial reporting. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we report annually on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Among other things, we must perform systems and process evaluation and testing. We must also conduct an assessment of our internal controls to allow management to report on our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. These requirements were effective for the first time for 2004. In connection with our Section 404 compliance efforts, we have incurred or expended, and expect to continue to incur or expend, substantial accounting and other expenses and significant management time and resources. Any subsequent assessment by us or our independent registered public accounting firm may reveal significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls, which may need to be disclosed in subsequent periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and could result in a restatement of previously issued financial information. Disclosures of this type could cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting and may negatively affect the price of our common stock. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary to produce reliable financial reports and to prevent fraud. If we have deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting, these deficiencies may negatively impact our business and operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK Our common stock is at risk for delisting from the Nasdaq Global Market. Our common stock is currently listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market, having moved from the Nasdaq Global Market in July 2008. Nasdaq has requirements that a company must meet in order to remain listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market. These requirements include maintaining a minimum closing bid price of $1.00 per share, which we have not maintained since February 2008. Our transfer to the Nasdaq Capital Market provided us with a 180-day period, or until January 12, 2009, to 20 Table of Contents regain compliance with the minimum closing bid requirement for a minimum of 10 consecutive trading days. Based on Nasdaq’s recent extension of the temporary suspension of Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5), we have until at least July 20, 2009 to regain compliance with the minimum closing bid price requirement for a minimum of ten consecutive trading days. Although our non-compliance has no effect on the listing of our common stock at this time, there is no guarantee that we will be able to regain compliance with the minimum closing bid requirement. Additionally, Nasdaq may, in its discretion, require us to maintain a bid price of at least $1.00 per share for a period in excess of ten consecutive trading days before determining that we have demonstrated an ability to maintain long-term compliance. At our annual meeting of stockholders in June 2008 our stockholders approved a proposal to grant our Board of Directors the discretionary authority to effect a reverse stock split of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock at any time prior to our 2009 Annual Meeting of stockholders. The primary purpose for effecting a reverse stock split would be to increase the per share price of our common stock in order to help us maintain the listing of our common stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market. However, even if a reverse stock split is effected, an increase in the per share price of our common stock above $1.00 may not be able to be maintained. The market price of our common stock will continue to be based, in part, on our performance and other factors unrelated to the number of shares outstanding. If we do not regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement by July 20, 2009, Nasdaq will provide us written notification that our common stock is subject to delisting. If we have not achieved compliance by that date, we may appeal Nasdaq’s determination to delist our common stock to the Nasdaq Hearing Panel, but there is no guarantee that such an appeal would be successful. In November 2008, we received notice from the Listing Qualifications Staff of the Nasdaq Stock Market indicating that we no longer satisfied the minimum stockholders’ equity requirement for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market under Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4310(c )(3). We subsequently submitted to the Nasdaq staff, a plan to regain compliance, and the Nasdaq, in response to the compliance plan submitted, granted us an extension to February 19, 2009 to regain compliance. On January 21, 2009, we received notice from the Staff indicating that we had regained compliance by exceeding $35 million of market capitalization for 10 consecutive trading days. Even though we have regained compliance with Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(3), there is no guarantee that we will be able to maintain compliance over future periods. If we fail to meet the continued listing requirements of the Nasdaq Capital Market and our common stock is delisted, trading in our common stock, if any, could be conducted on the OTC Bulletin Board as long as we continue to file reports required by the Securities and Exchange Commission. The OTC Bulletin Board is generally considered to be a less efficient market than the Nasdaq Capital Market, and our stock price, as well as the liquidity of our common stock, would be adversely affected as a result. Delisting would also negatively impact our ability to sell our common stock and secure additional financing. We have obligations to issue shares of common stock in the future that will dilute your ownership interest. As of December 28, 2008, in addition to approximately 103 million shares of our common stock outstanding, there were: (i) warrants outstanding to purchase an aggregate of approximately 43.7 million shares of our common stock at exercise prices ranging from $0.31 to $6.30 per share, which were issued to investors in various prior financings; (ii) an outstanding convertible note to LFB that is convertible after June 1, 2009 into 48.4 million shares of our common stock; and (iii) options to purchase an aggregate of 8.8 million shares of common stock at varying exercise prices were outstanding, of which total, options to purchase 4.4 million shares were immediately exercisable and the underlying shares could be immediately resold into the public market. The warrants to purchase an aggregate of 1,828,573 of shares of our common stock, which we issued in our August 2005 private placement, had an initial exercise price of $2.68 per share. The exercise price of these warrants is subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of a dilutive issuance, that is, an issuance of any shares of our common stock or common stock equivalents at an exercise price lower than the then-effective exercise price per share. Upon a dilutive issuance the exercise price of the unexercised portion of these warrants shall be reduced by multiplying the then-effective exercise price by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of common stock outstanding immediately prior to the dilutive issuance plus the number of shares of common stock which the aggregate consideration received or deemed to be received by the company in connection with the dilutive issuance would purchase at the exercise price, and the denominator of which is the number of shares of common stock and common stock equivalents issued and outstanding immediately following such dilutive issuance. As adjusted for all dilutive issuances through December 22, 2008, the exercise price of the August 2005 warrants has been reduced to approximately $1.34 per share. 21 Table of Contents We have 115 shares of Series D convertible preferred stock outstanding as of December 28, 2008, which are convertible into a total of 115,000 shares of common stock at the option of the preferred stock holder, LFB, at any time. We also have a convertible note payable to LFB in the remaining amount of approximately $800,000 as of December 28, 2008, the principal and accrued interest of which automatically converts into shares of our common stock in conjunction with any future common stock offerings at the per share offering price of the respective offering. Our capital raising efforts will dilute shareholder interests. If we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, the issuance will result in a reduction of the percentage of ownership for our existing shareholders, a result commonly referred to as dilution. The extent of such dilution will vary based upon the amount of capital raised. Our common stock may continue to have a volatile public trading price. Historically, the market price of our common stock has been highly volatile and the market for our common stock has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, some of which are unrelated to our company’s operating performance. Since January 1, 2007, the trading price of our stock has fluctuated from a high of $1.25 to a low of $0.11. It is likely that the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate in the future. Factors which may have a significant adverse effect on our common stock’s market price include: • actual or potential clinical or regulatory events relating to our products or compounds under development; • sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur; • other regulatory developments in Europe or the United States; • announcements by us or our competitors of technological innovations or new commercial products; • an unexpected termination of one of our partnerships; • developments concerning our proprietary rights, including patent and litigation matters; • general market conditions; and • quarterly fluctuations in our cash position, revenues and other financial results. The reported average daily trading volume of our common stock for the twelve-month period ending December 28, 2008 was 275,054 shares. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter and by-laws and Massachusetts law may result in management entrenchment and adversely affect our stock price. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter, our by-laws and Massachusetts statutes could delay or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us. These provisions may delay or prevent a change of control without action by the shareholders, and may resist important changes shareholders seek to make if they are dissatisfied with the conduct of our management. Therefore, these provisions could result in the entrenchment of our management and adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our charter grants authority to the board of directors to issue series of preferred stock with certain rights and privileges, including voting rights, as it deems appropriate. This authority may enable our board of directors to deter or delay a change in control despite a shift in stock ownership, as a result of an increase in the number of shares needed to gain voting control. This may have the effect of discouraging tender offers and proxy contests, and give management the power to reject certain transactions which might be desired by shareholders. This provision could also be deemed to benefit incumbent management to the extent it deters offers by persons who would wish to make changes in management or exercise control over management. In addition, our by-laws may have the effect of preventing changes in our management because shareholders are required to give us written notice of any proposal or director nomination within a specified period of time before the annual meeting of shareholders, certain qualifications for a person to be elected to the board of directors must be established, and shareholders are prohibited from calling a special meeting of shareholders, unless the shareholder owns 90% of our outstanding voting stock. 22 Table of Contents Our shareholder rights plan is another anti-takeover device. It involves a distribution to our shareholders of certain rights to acquire shares of our capital stock in the event of an acquisition of a predetermined number of shares by an investor. The shareholder rights plan is designed to deter coercive takeover tactics and to encourage a party interested in acquiring the corporation to negotiate with the board of directors. Certain Massachusetts corporate statutes provide anti-takeover protections. Our charter gives effect to a provision of Massachusetts law that places directors of publicly-held Massachusetts corporations into three classes of nearly equal sizes with staggered terms, thereby permitting only one-third of the board of directors to be elected at once. In addition, with certain exceptions, Massachusetts law prohibits a publicly-held Massachusetts corporation from engaging in a business combination transaction with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years. An “interested stockholder” is a person who owns 5% or more of the outstanding voting stock of the corporation. Finally, our by-laws include a provision excluding us from the applicability of a Massachusetts statute that denies voting rights to any person acquiring 20% or more of the outstanding voting stock of a corporation, unless such voting rights are approved by a majority of the corporation’s disinterested shareholders. Our by-laws may be amended at any time to subject us to this statute prospectively. LFB, the stockholder with the largest beneficial ownership of our common stock, may seek to influence our business in a manner that is adverse to us or adverse to other stockholders who may be unable to prevent actions by LFB. As our largest stockholder, LFB has substantial control over the outcome of most actions requiring the approval of our stockholders. After June 1, 2009, if we have not paid off the $15 million convertible debt we owe to LFB, the debt becomes convertible into 48,387,096 shares or our common stock and, if it is converted and LFB fully exercises the warrant issued to it in the debt financing for an aggregate of 23,193,548 shares of our common stock, LFB would own 91,844,048 shares, or 52.6%, of our common stock and would be in a position to control the election of our directors. We cannot assure that LFB will not seek to influence our business in a manner that is contrary to our goals or strategies or the interests of other stockholders. Moreover, persons who are directors of GTC and who are also directors and/or officers of LFB may decline to take action in a manner that might be favorable to us but adverse to LFB. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 