Item 1A. Risk Factors Information provided in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (“Annual Report”) contains “forward-looking” information as that term is defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “Act”). All statements regarding our expected future financial position, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity, financing plans, business strategy, budgets, the impact of changes in government reimbursement programs, projected costs and capital expenditures, competitive position, growth opportunities, plans and objectives of management for future operations and words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “plan,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may” and other similar expressions are forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements, which are being made pursuant to the provisions of the Act and with the intention of obtaining the benefits of the “safe harbor” provisions of the Act. We caution investors that any forward-looking statements made by us are not guarantees of future performance and that actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including, but not limited to, those set forth below and elsewhere herein. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update our forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results in future periods to differ materially from those projected or contemplated in the forward-looking statements as a result of, but not limited to, the factors set forth below. You should carefully consider the risks described herein. There may be additional risks of which we are presently unaware or that we currently deem immaterial. Our business depends on reimbursement under federal and state programs, and legislation or regulatory action may reduce or otherwise adversely affect the amount of reimbursements. Our revenues are heavily dependent on payments under federal and state government programs. In recent years, there have been numerous initiatives on the federal and state levels for comprehensive reforms affecting the payment for and availability of healthcare services. Aspects of certain of these initiatives, such as reductions in funding of the Medicare and Medicaid programs, potential changes in reimbursement regulations by CMS, enhanced pressure to contain healthcare costs by Medicare, Medicaid and other payors, greater state flexibility and additional operational requirements, could adversely affect us. In addition, we incur considerable administrative costs in monitoring the changes made within the program, determining the appropriate actions to be taken in response to those changes, and implementing the required actions to meet the new requirements and minimize the repercussions of the changes to our organization, reimbursement rates and costs. Also, different interpretations or enforcement of existing, new or amended laws and regulations could result in changes in our operations requiring capital expenditures and additional operating expenses. There can be no assurance as to the ultimate content, timing or effect of any healthcare reform legislation, nor is it possible at this time to estimate the impact of potential legislation on us. Any resulting impact of legislation may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See Item 7 – “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Revenues from Medicare, Medicaid and Other Sources.” Our business is subject to reviews, audits and investigations under federal and state programs, which could adversely impact our revenues and operations. 7 SUN HEALTHCARE GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES We are subject to review or audit by federal and state governmental agencies to verify compliance with the requirements of the Medicare and Medicaid programs and other federal and state programs. Private payors also may have the right by contract to review or audit our files. Such an investigation could result in our paying back amounts that we have been paid pursuant to these programs; our paying fines or penalties; the suspension of our ability to collect payment for new residents to a skilled nursing center; exclusion of a skilled nursing center from participation in one or more governmental programs; revocation of a license to operate a skilled nursing center; or loss of a contract with a private payor. Possible changes in the case mix of residents and patients as well as payor mix and payment methodologies may significantly affect our profitability. The sources and amount of our revenues are determined by a number of factors, including the licensed bed capacity and occupancy rates of our inpatient centers, the mix of residents and patients and the rates of reimbursement among payors. Likewise, services provided by our ancillary businesses vary based upon payor and payment methodologies. Changes in the case mix of the residents and patients as well as payor mix among private pay, Medicare and Medicaid will significantly affect our profitability. In particular, any significant decrease in our population of high-acuity residents and patients or any significant increase in our Medicaid population could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows, especially if states operating Medicaid programs continue to limit, or more aggressively seek limits on, reimbursement rates. We are subject to a number of lawsuits and rely primarily on self-funded insurance programs for general and professional liability claims against us. Skilled nursing center operators, including our inpatient services subsidiaries, are subject to lawsuits seeking to hold them liable for alleged negligent or other wrongful conduct of employees that allegedly result in injury or death to residents of the centers. We currently have numerous patient care lawsuits pending against us, as well as other types of lawsuits, many of which relate to centers that we no longer operate. Adverse determinations in legal proceedings or any governmental investigations that could lead to lawsuits, whether currently asserted or arising in the future, and any adverse publicity arising therefrom, could have a material adverse effect on our business reputation, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We self-insure for the majority of our insurable risks, primarily for general and professional liabilities, but also for workers’ compensation liabilities and employee health insurance liabilities, through the use of self-insurance or self-funded insurance policies, which vary by the states in which we operate. Since January 2000, we have relied upon self-funded insurance programs for general and professional liability claims, which amounts we are responsible for funding, and we have maintained excess insurance policies for claims above those amounts. Since January 1, 2004, we have had self-funded policies for $5.0 million per claim. There is a risk that the amounts funded to our programs of self-insurance and future cash flows may not be sufficient to respond to all claims asserted under those programs. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had recorded reserves of $86.3 million and $75.1 million, respectively, for general and professional liabilities, but we had only pre-funded $3.7 million and $4.3 million, respectively, for such claims. We cannot assure you that a claim in excess of our insurance coverage limits will not arise. A claim against us that is not covered by, or is in excess of, the coverage limits provided by our excess insurance policies could have a material adverse effect upon us. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain additional adequate liability insurance in the future or that, if such insurance is available, it will be available on acceptable terms. Our operations are extensively regulated and adverse determinations against us could result in severe penalties, including loss of licensure and decertification. 8 SUN HEALTHCARE GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES In the ordinary course of business, we are continuously subject to a wide variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations and to state and federal regulatory scrutiny, supervision and control in various areas, including referral of patients, false claims under Medicare and Medicaid, health and safety laws, environmental laws and the protection of health information. Such regulatory scrutiny often includes inquiries, civil and criminal investigations, examinations, audits, site visits and surveys, some of which are non-routine. See Item 1 – “Business—Federal and State Regulatory Oversight” and Item 3 — “Legal Proceedings.” If we are found to have engaged in improper practices, we could be subject to civil, administrative or criminal fines, penalties or restitutionary relief or corporate settlement agreements with federal, state or local authorities, and reimbursement authorities could also seek our suspension or exclusion from participation in their program. The exclusion of centers from participating in Medicare or Medicaid could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our business is dependent on referral sources, which have no obligation to refer residents and patients to our skilled nursing centers. We rely on referrals from physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers to provide our skilled nursing centers with our patient population. These referral sources are not obligated to refer business to us and may refer business to other long term care providers. If we fail to maintain our existing referral sources or fail to develop new relationships, our patient population, payor mix, revenue and profitability could be adversely affected. Providers of commercial insurance and other nongovernmental payors are increasingly seeking to control costs, which efforts could negatively impact our revenues. Private insurers are seeking to control healthcare costs through direct contracts with healthcare providers, and reviews of the propriety of, and charges for, services provided. These private payors are increasingly demanding discounted fee structures. These cost control efforts could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We continue to seek acquisitions and other strategic opportunities that may require a significant amount of management resources and costs. We continue to seek acquisitions and other strategic opportunities. Accordingly, we are often engaged in evaluating potential transactions and other strategic alternatives. In addition, from time to time, we engage in preliminary discussions that may result in one or more transactions. Although there is uncertainty that any of these discussions will result in definitive agreements or the completion of any transaction, we may devote a significant amount of our management resources to such a transaction, which could negatively impact our operations. In addition, we may incur significant costs in connection with seeking acquisitions regardless of whether the acquisition is completed. We may not be able to realize the potential benefits of our acquisitions, which could cause our business to suffer. We may never realize the potential benefits of our acquisitions, such as the acquisition of Harborside. The integration of operations, such as Harborside’s operations, with our operations requires significant attention from management and can impose substantial demands on our operational and financial resources, possibly reducing management’s ability to focus on other operations or other projects. Any delays or increased costs of combining such operations could adversely affect our operations, financial results and liquidity. We face national, regional and local competition. 9 SUN HEALTHCARE GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES The healthcare industry is highly competitive and subject to continual changes in the method by which services are provided and the types of companies providing services. Our nursing centers compete primarily on a local and regional basis with many long-term care providers, some of whom may own as few as a single nursing center. Our ability to compete successfully varies from location to location depending on a number of factors, including the number of competing centers in the local market, the types of services available, quality of care, reputation, age and appearance of each center and the cost of care in each locality. Increased competition in the future could limit our ability to attract and retain residents or to expand our business. State efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of healthcare providers could impair our ability to expand our operations or make acquisitions. Some states require healthcare providers (including skilled nursing centers, hospices and assisted living centers) to obtain prior approval, in the form of a CON, for the purchase, construction or expansion of healthcare centers; capital expenditures exceeding a prescribed amount; or changes in services or bed capacity. To the extent that we are required to obtain a CON or other similar approvals to expand our operations, either by acquiring centers or other companies or expanding or providing new services or other changes, our expansion could be adversely affected by our failure or inability to obtain the necessary approvals, changes in the standards applicable to those approvals, and possible delays and expenses associated with obtaining those approvals. We cannot make any assurances that we will be able to obtain CON approval for any future projects requiring this approval. We may be unable to reduce costs to offset completely any decreases in our revenues. Reduced levels of occupancy in our long-term care centers and reductions in reimbursements from Medicare and Medicaid would adversely impact our cash flow and revenues. Fluctuation in our occupancy levels may become more common as we increase our emphasis on patients with shorter stays but higher acuities. If we are unable to put in place corresponding adjustments in costs in response to declines in census or other revenue shortfalls, we would be unable to prevent future decreases in earnings. Our centers are able to reduce some of their costs as occupancy decreases, although the decrease in costs will in most cases be less than the decrease in revenues. However, our centers are not able to reduce their costs of providing care upon a decrease in reimbursement revenues from federal and state programs. We continue to be affected by an industry-wide shortage of qualified center care-provider personnel and increasing labor costs. We, and other providers in the long-term care industry, have had and continue to have difficulties in retaining qualified personnel to staff our long-term care centers, particularly nurses, and in such situations we may be required to use temporary employment agencies to provide additional personnel. The labor costs are generally higher for temporary employees than for full-time employees. In addition, many states in which we operate have increased minimum staffing standards. As minimum staffing standards are increased, we may be required to retain additional staffing. In addition, in recent years we have experienced increases in our labor costs primarily due to higher wages and greater benefits required to attract and retain qualified personnel and to increase staffing levels in our long-term and sub-acute care centers. A similar situation exists in the rehabilitation therapy industry. We, and other providers, have had and continue to have difficulties in hiring a sufficient number of rehabilitation therapists. Under these circumstances, we, and others in this industry, have been required to offer higher compensation to attract and retain these personnel, and we have been forced to rely on independent contractors, at higher costs, to fulfill our contractual commitments with our customers. Existing contractual commitments, regulatory limitations and the market for these services have made it difficult for us to pass through these increased costs to our customers. 10 SUN HEALTHCARE GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Delays in collection of our accounts receivable could adversely affect our cash flows and financial condition. Prompt billing and collection are important factors in our liquidity. Billing and collection of our accounts receivable are subject to the complex regulations that govern Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement and rules imposed by non-government payors. Our inability to bill and collect on a timely basis pursuant to these regulations and rules could subject us to payment delays that could negatively impact our cash flows and ultimately our financial condition. If we lose our key management personnel, we may not be able to successfully manage our business and achieve our objectives. Our future success depends in large part upon the leadership and performance of our executive management team, particularly Richard K. Matros, our chief executive officer, and key employees at the operating level. If we lose the services of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, or if one or more of them decides to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives. If we lose the services of any of our key employees at the operating or regional level, we may not be able to replace them with similarly qualified personnel, which could harm our business. We have incurred a significant amount of indebtedness in connection with the Harborside acquisition and other acquisition activities, which indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and restrict our activities. As of December 31, 2007, we had indebtedness of approximately $729.3 million (in addition to a $50.0 million revolving credit facility for working capital and general corporate purposes, and a $70.0 million letter of credit facility), which includes $49.4 million of debt for variable interest entities (see Note 10 – “Variable Interest Entities”). Our indebtedness could have important consequences, such as requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our debt, limiting our ability to fund, and potentially increasing the cost of funding, working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate requirements and making us more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions. In addition, the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes and our senior secured credit facilities contains restrictions on our ability to, among other things, make acquisitions, other investments and capital expenditures. To the extent that we require additional debt financing in the future, such financing will likely have less favorable terms than our current debt financing. In the ordinary course of business, mortgages on our centers may become due and payable by their terms and we would seek to refinance such mortgages. There can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain such refinancing on terms as favorable as our current financing. In addition, the terms of the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes and our senior secured credit facilities permit us to incur additional indebtedness, subject to certain restrictions. Accordingly, we could incur significant additional indebtedness in the future and there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain such financing on terms as favorable as our current financing. We do not expect to pay any dividends for the foreseeable future. We are currently prohibited by the terms of our senior credit facilities from paying dividends to holders of our common stock, and do not anticipate that we will pay any dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, 11 SUN HEALTHCARE GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Delaware law and provisions in our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws may delay or prevent takeover attempts by third parties and therefore inhibit our stockholders from realizing a premium on their stock. We are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. This section prevents any stockholder who owns 15% or more of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations with us for a period of three years following the time that the stockholder acquired such stock ownership unless certain approvals were or are obtained from our board of directors or the holders of 66 2/3% of our outstanding common stock. Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws also contain several other provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions include, among other things, (i) advance notice for raising business or making nominations at meetings, (ii) an affirmative vote of the holders of 66 2/3% of our outstanding common stock for stockholders to remove directors or amend our Amended and Restated Bylaws or certain provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, and (iii) the ability to issue “blank check” preferred stock, which our board of directors, without stockholder approval, can designate and issue with such dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights, including the right to issue convertible securities with no limitations on conversion. The issuance of blank check preferred stock may adversely affect the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock as our board of directors may designate and issue preferred stock with terms that are senior to our common stock. Our board of directors can use these and other provisions to discourage, delay or prevent a change in the control of our company or a change in our management. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or a change in our board of directors or management could deter potential acquirors or prevent the completion of a transaction in which our stockholders could receive a substantial premium over the then current market price for their shares. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock. We lease a significant amount of our centers. We face risks because of the number of centers that we lease. We currently lease 131 of our 213 inpatient centers. Our high percentage of leased centers limits our control over the centers, could hinder our ability to modify centers to meet changing customer needs, limits our ability to directly control occupancy costs and limits our ability to exit markets. Each of our lease agreements provides that the lessor may terminate the lease for a number of reasons, including our default in any payment of rent or taxes or our breach of any covenant or agreement in the lease. Termination of any of our leases could harm our results of operations and, as with default under any of our indebtedness, could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity. Although we believe that we will be able to renew the existing leases that we wish to extend, there is no assurance that we will succeed in obtaining extensions in the future at rental rates that we believe to be reasonable or at all. Moreover, if some centers should prove to be unprofitable, we could remain obligated for lease payments even if we decided to withdraw from those locations. We could incur special charges relating to the closing of such centers including lease termination costs, impairment charges and other special charges that would reduce our profits. Natural disasters and other adverse events may harm our centers and residents. Our centers and residents may suffer harm as a result of natural or other causes, such as storms, earthquakes, floods, fires and other conditions. Such events can disrupt our operations, negatively affect our revenues and 12 SUN HEALTHCARE GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES increase our costs. For example, ten of our inpatient centers are in Florida, which is prone to hurricanes, and 15 of our centers and our executive offices are in California, which is prone to earthquakes. Failure to maintain effective internal control over our financial reporting could have an adverse effect on our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis. We are required to maintain internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Rule 13a-15 under the Exchange Act. See Item 9A – “Controls and Procedures.” Failure to maintain such controls could result in misstatements in our financial statements and potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the Securities and Exchange Commission or other regulatory authorities, either of which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. In February 2007, our management determined that our financial reporting controls as they related to lease accounting were not effective for the year ended December 31, 2006. Accordingly, management determined that this control deficiency constituted, by definition, a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency or a combination of deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Although we have taken steps to remediate the material weakness, we cannot assure you that this or other control deficiencies will not result in a misstatement in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 