Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business depends on reimbursement under federal and state programs, and legislation or regulatory action may reduce or otherwise adversely affect the amount of reimbursements. Our revenues are heavily dependent on payments administered under the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The economic downturn has caused many states to institute freezes on or reductions in Medicaid reimbursements to address state budget concerns. Moreover, for the 2010 federal fiscal year, CMS effectively reduced our Medicare reimbursement rates; for the 2011 federal fiscal year, CMS is implementing changes to the Resource Utilization Group classification system, which may impact our Medicare revenues adversely. In addition, the skilled nursing center exception to the statutory cap on Medicare reimbursements for therapy services expired on December 31, 2009. If the skilled nursing center exception is not extended, reimbursement for therapy services rendered to our residents and patients will be reduced. See Item 7 – “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Revenues from Medicare, Medicaid and Other Sources.” In addition to these reductions, there have been numerous initiatives on the federal and state levels for comprehensive reforms affecting the payment for and availability of healthcare services. Aspects of certain of these initiatives, such as further reductions in funding of the Medicare and Medicaid programs, additional changes in reimbursement regulations by CMS, enhanced pressure to contain healthcare costs by Medicare, Medicaid and other payors, and additional operational requirements, could adversely affect us. In addition to reducing our revenues, healthcare reform may increase our costs and otherwise adversely affect our business. Both the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate have each recently proposed comprehensive reforms to the country’s healthcare system. There can be no assurance as to the ultimate content, timing or 7 SUN HEALTHCARE GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES effect of any legislation that seeks to address healthcare reform, nor is it possible at this time to estimate the impact of potential legislation on us. Any significant healthcare reform legislation may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we incur considerable administrative costs in monitoring any changes made within the Medicare and Medicaid programs (such as the pending change in Resource Utilization Group categories), determining the appropriate actions to be taken in response to those changes, and implementing the required actions to meet the new requirements and minimize the repercussions of the changes to our organization, reimbursement rates and costs. A major reform of the healthcare delivery system could render determining and implementing appropriate actions more complex and costly. See Item 7 – “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Revenues from Medicare, Medicaid and Other Sources.” Our revenue and collections have been adversely affected by the economic downturn, and there may be further adverse consequences of the downturn. In addition to state and federal budgetary actions that have impacted the amount of reimbursements that we receive for services under state and federal programs, the economic downturn has resulted in reduced demand for our staffing services that we provide through or to other healthcare providers and has impacted our ability to collect our receivables from nongovernmental sources. If current economic conditions do not improve or worsen, this reduction in demand and impact on our receivables collection could continue. Adverse economic conditions could also result in continued reduced demand for our therapy and staffing services to third party providers and increasing difficulty in collecting our receivables. Delays in collecting or the inability to collect our accounts receivable could adversely affect our cash flows and financial condition. Prompt billing and collection are important factors in our liquidity. Billing and collection of our accounts receivable are subject to the complex regulations that govern Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement and rules imposed by nongovernment payors. Our inability to bill and collect on a timely basis pursuant to these regulations and rules could subject us to payment delays that could negatively impact our cash flows and ultimately our financial condition. In addition, commercial payors and other customers, as well as individual patients, may be unable to make payments to us for which they are responsible. The recent economic downturn has resulted in a decrease in our ability to collect accounts receivable from some of our customers. A continuation or worsening of recent unfavorable economic conditions may result in a decrease in our collections, then we will have to make larger allowances for doubtful accounts or incur bad debt write-offs, both of which would have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business is subject to reviews, audits and investigations under federal and state programs and by private payors, which could adversely impact our revenues and results of operations. We are subject to review or audit by federal and state governmental agencies to verify compliance with the requirements of the Medicare and Medicaid programs and other federal and state programs. Audits under the Medicare and Medicaid programs have intensified in recent years. See Item 7 – “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Revenues from Medicare, Medicaid and Other Sources.” Private payors also may have the right by contract to review or audit our files. Such an investigation could result in our paying back amounts that we have been paid pursuant to these programs; our paying fines or penalties; the suspension of our ability to collect payment for new residents to a skilled nursing center; exclusion of a skilled nursing center from participation in one or more governmental programs; revocation of a license to operate a skilled nursing center; or loss of a contract with a private payor. Any of these events could adversely impact our revenues and results of operations. 8 SUN HEALTHCARE GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Our hospice business is subject to a cap on the amount paid by Medicare and other Medicare payment limitations, which limitations could adversely affect our hospice revenues and earnings. Payments made by Medicare for hospice services are subject to a cap amount on a per hospice basis. Our ability to comply with this limitation depends on a number of factors, including number of admissions, average length of stay, acuity level of our patients and patients that transfer into and out of our hospice programs. Our hospice revenue and profitability may be materially reduced if we are unable to comply with this and other Medicare payment limitations. See Item 7 – “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Revenues from Medicare, Medicaid and Other Sources.” Possible changes in the case mix of residents and patients as well as payor mix and payment methodologies may significantly affect our profitability. The sources and amount of our revenues are determined by a number of factors, including the licensed bed capacity and occupancy rates of our healthcare centers, the mix of residents and patients and the rates of reimbursement among payors. Likewise, services provided by our ancillary businesses vary based upon payor and payment methodologies. Changes in the case mix of the residents and patients as well as payor mix among private pay, Medicare and Medicaid will significantly affect our profitability. In particular, any significant decrease in our population of high-acuity residents and patients or any significant increase in our Medicaid population could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows, especially if states operating Medicaid programs continue to limit, or more aggressively seek limits on, reimbursement rates. We are subject to a number of lawsuits, which could adversely impact us. Skilled nursing center operators, including our inpatient services subsidiaries, are subject to lawsuits seeking to hold them liable for alleged negligent or other wrongful conduct of employees that allegedly result in injury or death to residents of the centers. We currently have numerous patient care lawsuits pending against us, as well as other types of lawsuits. Adverse determinations in legal proceedings or any governmental investigations that could lead to lawsuits, whether currently asserted or arising in the future, and any adverse publicity arising therefrom, could have a material adverse effect on our business reputation, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We rely primarily on self-funded insurance programs for general and professional liability and workers’ compensation claims against us. We self-insure for the majority of our insurable risks, including general and professional liabilities, workers’ compensation liabilities and employee health insurance liabilities, through the use of self-insurance or self-funded insurance policies, which vary by the states in which we operate. We rely upon self-funded insurance programs for general and professional liability claims up to $5.0 million per claim, which amounts we are responsible for funding. We maintain excess insurance policies for claims above this amount. There is a risk that the amounts funded to our programs of self-insurance and future cash flows may not be sufficient to respond to all claims asserted under those programs. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had recorded reserves of $94.9 million and $87.3 million, respectively, for general and professional liabilities, but we had only pre-funded $3.4 million in each of those years for such claims. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had recorded reserves of $94.9 million and $87.3 million, respectively, for workers’ compensation liabilities, and had only pre-funded $12.0 million and $22.1 million, respectively, for such claims. We cannot assure you that a claim in excess of our insurance coverage limits will not arise. A claim against us that is not covered by, or is in excess of, the coverage limits provided by our excess 9 SUN HEALTHCARE GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES insurance policies could have a material adverse effect upon us. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain adequate additional liability insurance in the future or that, if such insurance is available, it will be available on acceptable terms. Our operations are extensively regulated and adverse determinations against us could result in severe penalties, including loss of licensure and decertification. In the ordinary course of business, we are continuously subject to a wide variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations and to state and federal regulatory scrutiny, supervision and control in various areas, including referral of patients, false claims under Medicare and Medicaid, health and safety laws, environmental laws and the protection of health information. Such regulatory scrutiny often includes inquiries, civil and criminal investigations, examinations, audits, site visits and surveys, some of which are non-routine. See Item 1 – “Business—Federal and State Regulatory Oversight” and Item 3 — “Legal Proceedings.” If we are found to have engaged in improper practices, we could be subject to civil, administrative or criminal fines, penalties or restitutionary relief or corporate settlement agreements with federal, state or local authorities, and reimbursement authorities could also seek our suspension or exclusion from participation in their program. The exclusion of centers from participating in Medicare or Medicaid could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We cannot predict the future course of any laws or regulations to which we are subject, including Medicare and Medicaid statutes and regulations, the intensity of federal and state enforcement actions or the extent and size of any potential sanctions, fines or penalties. Changes in existing laws or regulations, or the enactment of new laws or regulations, could result in changes to our operations requiring significant capital expenditures or additional operating expenses. Evolving interpretations of existing, new or amended laws and regulations or heightened enforcement efforts could also negatively impact our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our business is dependent on referral sources, which have no obligation to refer residents and patients to our skilled nursing centers. We rely on referrals from physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers to provide our skilled nursing centers with our patient population. These referral sources are not obligated to refer business to us and may refer business to other long term care providers. If we fail to maintain our existing referral sources, fail to develop new relationships, or fail to achieve or maintain a reputation for providing high quality of care, our patient population, payor mix, revenue and profitability could be adversely affected. Providers of commercial insurance and other nongovernmental payors are increasingly seeking to control costs, which efforts could negatively impact our revenues. Private insurers are seeking to control healthcare costs through direct contracts with healthcare providers, and reviews of the propriety of, and charges for, services provided. These private payors are increasingly demanding discounted fee structures. These cost control efforts could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We continue to seek acquisitions and other strategic opportunities, which may result in the use of a significant amount of management resources or significant costs and we may not be able to fully realize the potential benefit of such transactions. We continue to seek acquisitions and other strategic opportunities. Accordingly, we are often engaged in evaluating potential transactions and other strategic alternatives. In addition, from time to time, we engage in preliminary discussions that may result in one or more transactions. Although there is uncertainty that any of these discussions will result in definitive agreements or the completion of any transaction, we may devote a significant amount of our management resources to such a transaction, which could negatively impact our 10 SUN HEALTHCARE GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES operations. In addition, we may incur significant costs in connection with seeking acquisitions or other strategic opportunities regardless of whether the transaction is completed and in combining our operations if such a transaction is completed. In the event that we consummate an acquisition or strategic alternative in the future, we can give no assurance that we would fully realize the potential benefit of such a transaction. We face national, regional and local competition. The healthcare industry is highly competitive and subject to continual changes in the method by which services are provided and the types of companies providing services. Our nursing and rehabilitation centers compete primarily on a local and regional basis with many long-term care providers, some of whom may own as few as a single nursing center. Our ability to compete successfully varies from location to location depending on a number of factors, including the number of competing centers in the local market, the types of services available, quality of care, reputation, age and appearance of each center and the cost of care in each locality. Increased competition in the future could limit our ability to attract and retain residents or to expand our business. State efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of healthcare providers could impair our ability to expand our operations or make acquisitions. Some states require healthcare providers (including skilled nursing centers, hospices and assisted living centers) to obtain prior approval, in the form of a CON, for the purchase, construction or expansion of healthcare centers; capital expenditures exceeding a prescribed amount; or changes in services or bed capacity. To the extent that we are required to obtain a CON or other similar approvals to expand our operations, either by acquiring centers or other companies or expanding or providing new services or other changes, our expansion could be adversely affected by our failure or inability to obtain the necessary approvals, changes in the standards applicable to those approvals, and possible delays and expenses associated with obtaining those approvals. We cannot make any assurances that we will be able to obtain a CON or other similar approval for any future projects requiring this approval. We may be unable to reduce costs to offset completely any decreases in our revenues. Reduced levels of occupancy in our healthcare centers and reductions in reimbursements from Medicare and Medicaid would adversely impact our cash flow and revenues. Fluctuation in our occupancy levels may become more common as we increase our emphasis on patients with shorter stays but higher acuities. If we are unable to put in place corresponding adjustments in costs in response to declines in census or other revenue shortfalls, we would be unable to prevent future decreases in earnings. Our centers are able to reduce some of their costs as occupancy decreases, although the decrease in costs will in most cases be less than the decrease in revenues. However, our centers are not able to reduce their costs of providing care upon a decrease in reimbursement revenues from federal and state programs. We continue to be affected by an industry-wide shortage of qualified center care-provider personnel and increasing labor costs. We, and other providers in the long-term care industry, have had and continue to have difficulties in retaining qualified personnel to staff our healthcare centers, particularly nurses, and in such situations we may be required to use temporary employment agencies to provide additional personnel. The labor costs are generally higher for temporary employees than for full-time employees. In addition, many states in which we operate have increased minimum staffing standards. As minimum staffing standards are increased, we may be required to retain additional staffing. In addition, in recent years we have experienced increases in our labor costs primarily due to 11 SUN HEALTHCARE GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES higher wages and greater benefits required to attract and retain qualified personnel and to increase staffing levels in our centers. A similar situation exists in the rehabilitation therapy industry. We, and other providers, have had and continue to have difficulties in hiring a sufficient number of rehabilitation therapists. Under these circumstances, we, and others in this industry, have been required to offer higher compensation to attract and retain these personnel, and we have been forced to rely on independent contractors, at higher costs, to fulfill our contractual commitments with our customers. Existing contractual commitments, regulatory limitations and the market for these services have made it difficult for us to pass through these increased costs to our customers. If we are unable to meet minimum staffing standards, we may be subject to fines or other sanctions. Increased attention to the quality of care provided in skilled nursing facilities has caused several states to mandate, and other states to consider mandating, minimum staffing laws that require minimum nursing hours of direct care per resident per day. These minimum staffing requirements further increase the gap between demand for and supply of qualified professionals, and lead to higher labor costs. Failure to comply with minimum staffing requirements can result in fines and requirements that we provide a plan of correction. See Item 1 – “Business – Federal and State Regulatory Oversight.” Our ability to satisfy minimum staffing requirements depends upon our ability to attract and retain qualified healthcare professionals, including nurses, certified nurse’s assistants and other personnel. Attracting and retaining these personnel is difficult, given existing shortages of these employees in the labor markets in which we operate. Furthermore, if states do not appropriate additional funds (through Medicaid program appropriations or otherwise) sufficient to pay for any additional operating costs resulting from minimum staffing requirements, our profitability may be materially adversely affected. If we lose our key management personnel, we may not be able to successfully manage our business and achieve our objectives. Our future success depends in large part upon the leadership and performance of our executive management team, particularly Richard K. Matros, our chief executive officer, William A. Mathies, the chief operating officer of our operating subsidiaries, L. Bryan Shaul, our chief financial officer, and key employees at the operating level. If we lose the services of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, or if one or more of them decides to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives. If we lose the services of any of our key employees at the operating or regional level, we may not be able to replace them with similarly qualified personnel, which could harm our business. We have incurred a significant amount of indebtedness in connection with acquisition activities, which indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition. As of December 31, 2009, we had indebtedness of approximately $700.5 million, the ability to borrow up to $50.0 million under our revolving credit facility and a $70.0 million letter of credit facility pursuant to which $62.8 million of letters of credit were outstanding. Our indebtedness could have adverse consequences, such as requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our debt, limiting our ability to fund, and potentially increasing the cost of funding, working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate requirements and making us more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions. If we fail to comply with the payment requirements or financial covenants contained in these agreements, we would be required to seek waivers from our lenders. Seeking these waivers may be difficult or expensive to obtain and, if we fail to obtain any necessary waivers, which may be expensive 12 SUN HEALTHCARE GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES to obtain, the resulting default would allow the lenders to accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness, which would have a material adverse affect on our financial condition. See Item 7 – “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Loan Agreements.” The agreements that govern our indebtedness restrict our activities. The indenture governing our senior subordinated notes and the agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities contain restrictions on our ability to, among other things, make acquisitions and other investments, pay dividends, and incur indebtedness and capital expenditures. These restrictions may significantly adversely affect implementation of future business strategies, or require us to approach our lenders for consent to allow us to implement such strategies. Such a consent could be difficult or expensive to obtain. Our failure to comply with such restrictions and other covenants could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to borrow. To the extent that we require additional debt financing in the future, such financing may have less favorable terms than our current debt financing. In the ordinary course of business, mortgages on our centers may become due and payable by their terms and we would seek to refinance such mortgages. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such refinancing on terms comparable to our current financing, or at all. In addition, the terms of the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes and our senior secured credit facilities permit us to incur additional indebtedness, subject to certain restrictions. Accordingly, we could incur additional indebtedness in the future and there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain such financing on terms comparable to our current financing, or at all. We do not expect to pay any dividends for the foreseeable future. We are currently prohibited by the terms of our senior credit facilities from paying dividends to holders of our common stock, and do not anticipate that we will pay any dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Delaware law and provisions in our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws may delay or prevent takeover attempts by third parties and therefore inhibit our stockholders from realizing a premium on their stock. We are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. This section prevents any stockholder who owns 15% or more of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations with us for a period of three years following the time that the stockholder acquired such stock ownership unless certain approvals were or are obtained from our board of directors or the holders of 66 2/3% of our outstanding common stock. Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws also contain several other provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions include, among other things, (i) advance notice for raising business or making nominations at meetings, (ii) an affirmative vote of the holders of 66 2/3% of our outstanding common stock for stockholders to remove directors or amend our Amended and Restated Bylaws or certain provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, and (iii) the ability to issue “blank check” preferred stock, which our board of directors, without stockholder approval, can designate and issue with such dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights, including the right to issue convertible securities with no limitations on conversion. The issuance of blank check preferred stock may 13 SUN HEALTHCARE GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES adversely affect the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock as our board of directors may designate and issue preferred stock with terms that are senior to our common stock. Our board of directors can use these and other provisions to discourage, delay or prevent a change in the control of our company or a change in our management. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or a change in our board of directors or management could deter potential acquirors or prevent the completion of a transaction in which our stockholders could receive a substantial premium over the then current market price for their shares. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock. We lease a significant amount of our centers. We face risks because of the number of centers that we lease. We currently lease 112 of our 205 healthcare centers. Our high percentage of leased centers limits our ability to exit markets. Each of our lease agreements provides that the lessor may terminate the lease for a number of reasons, including our default in any payment of rent or taxes or our breach of any covenant or agreement in the lease. Termination of any of our leases could harm our results of operations and, as with default under any of our indebtedness, could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity. Although we believe that we will be able to renew the existing leases that we wish to extend, there is no assurance that we will succeed in obtaining extensions in the future at rental rates that we believe to be reasonable, or at all. Moreover, if some centers should prove to be unprofitable, we could remain obligated for lease payments even if we decided to withdraw from those locations. We could incur special charges relating to the closing of such centers including lease termination costs, impairment charges and other special charges that would reduce our profits. Natural disasters and other adverse events may harm our centers and residents. Our centers and residents may suffer harm as a result of natural or other causes, such as storms, earthquakes, floods, fires and other conditions. Such events can disrupt our operations, negatively affect our revenues, and increase our costs or result in a future impairment charge. For example, nine of our healthcare centers are in Florida, which is prone to hurricanes, and 16 of our centers and our executive offices are in California, which is prone to earthquakes. In addition, as a result of June 2008 flooding in the Midwest, one of our centers in Indiana was severely damaged and the operation was permanently discontinued. Our ability to use our net operating losses (“NOLs”) and other tax attributes to offset future taxable income could be limited by an ownership change and/or decisions by California and other states to suspend the use of NOLs. We have significant NOLs, tax credits and amortizable goodwill available to offset our future U.S. federal and state taxable income. Our ability to utilize these NOLs and other tax attributes may be subject to significant limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (and applicable state law) if we undergo an ownership change. An ownership change occurs for purposes of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code if, among other things, 5% stockholders (i.e., stockholders who own or have owned 5% or more of our stock (with certain groups of less-than-5% stockholders treated as single stockholders for this purpose)) increase their aggregate percentage ownership of our stock by more than fifty percentage points above the lowest percentage of the stock owned by these stockholders at any time during the relevant testing period. An issuance of our common stock in connection with acquisitions or for any other reason can contribute to or result in an ownership change under Section 382. Stock ownership for purposes of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code is determined under a complex set of attribution rules, so that a person is treated as owning stock directly, indirectly (i.e., through certain entities) and constructively (through certain related persons and certain unrelated persons acting as a group). In the event of an ownership change, Section 382 imposes an annual limitation 14 SUN HEALTHCARE GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (based upon our value at the time of the ownership change, as determined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code) on the amount of taxable income and tax liabilities a corporation may offset with NOLs and other tax attributes, such as tax credit carryforwards. Any unused annual limitation may be carried over to later years until the applicable expiration date for the respective NOL and tax credit carryforwards. As a result, our inability to utilize these NOLs or credits as a result of any ownership changes, could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. In addition, California and certain states have suspended use of NOLs for certain taxable years, and other states are considering similar measures. As a result, we may incur higher state income tax expense in the future. Depending on our future tax position, continued suspension of our ability to use NOLs in states in which we are subject to income tax could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. Failure to maintain effective internal control over our financial reporting could have an adverse effect on our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis. We are required to maintain internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Rule 13a-15 under the Exchange Act. See Item 9A – “Controls and Procedures.” Failure to maintain such controls could result in misstatements in our financial statements and potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the Securities and Exchange Commission or other regulatory authorities or could cause us to delay the filing of required reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission and our reporting of financial results. Any of these events could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. Although we have taken steps to maintain our internal control structure as required, we cannot assure you that control deficiencies will not result in a misstatement in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 