Item 1A. Risk Factors Information provided in this Annual Report on Form 10-K ("Annual Report") contains "forward-looking" information as that term is defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the "Act"). All statements regarding our expected future financial position, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity, financing plans, business strategy, budgets, the impact of changes in government reimbursement programs, projected costs and capital expenditures, competitive position, growth opportunities, plans and objectives of management for future operations and words such as "anticipate," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may" and other similar expressions are forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements, which are being made pursuant to the provisions of the Act and with the intention of obtaining the benefits of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Act. We caution investors that any forward-looking statements made by us are not guarantees of future performance and that actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including, but not limited to, those set forth below and elsewhere herein. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update our forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results in future periods to differ materially from those projected or contemplated in the forward-looking statements as a result of, but not limited to, the factors set forth below. You should carefully consider the risks described herein. There may be additional risks of which we are presently unaware or that we currently deem immaterial. Healthcare reform legislation or regulatory action may adversely affect our business. Our revenues are heavily dependent on payments under federal and state government programs. See “Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations—Revenues from Medicare, Medicaid and Other Sources.” In recent years, there have been numerous initiatives on the federal and state levels for comprehensive reforms affecting the payment for and availability of healthcare services. Aspects of certain of these initiatives, such as reductions in funding of the Medicare and Medicaid programs, potential changes in reimbursement regulations by CMS, enhanced pressure to contain healthcare costs by 8 SUN HEALTHCARE GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Medicare, Medicaid and other payors, greater state flexibility and additional operational requirements, could adversely affect us. In addition, we incur considerable administrative costs in monitoring the changes made within the program, determining the appropriate actions to be taken in response to those changes, and implementing the required actions to meet the new requirements and minimize the repercussions of the changes to our organization, reimbursement rates and costs. Also, different interpretations or enforcement of existing, new or amended laws and regulations could result in changes in our operations requiring capital expenditures and additional operating expenses. There can be no assurance as to the ultimate content, timing or effect of any healthcare reform legislation, nor is it possible at this time to estimate the impact of potential legislation on us. That impact may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See “Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations—Revenues from Medicare, Medicaid and Other Sources.” Possible changes in the case mix of residents and patients as well as payor mix and payment methodologies may significantly affect our profitability. The sources and amount of our revenues are determined by a number of factors, including the licensed bed capacity and occupancy rates of our inpatient facilities, the mix of residents and patients and the rates of reimbursement among payors. Likewise, services provided by our ancillary businesses vary based upon payor and payment methodologies. Changes in the case mix of the residents and patients as well as payor mix among private pay, Medicare and Medicaid will significantly affect our profitability. Particularly, any significant increase in our Medicaid population could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows, especially if states operating these programs continue to limit, or more aggressively seek limits on, reimbursement rates. Our proposed acquisition of Harborside may be delayed or not be consummated. We are required to obtain approvals from various governmental authorities before we can operate Harborside’s facilities in certain states. In addition, certain of Harborside’s leases and mortgage indebtedness contain provisions that provide for a default if there is a change of control of Harborside. We have received approval or confirmation of no required action from eight of the ten required states and expect to receive the remaining approval in the first half of 2007. In addition, we are in the process of obtaining consents from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and representatives of certain of Harborside’s landlords and mortgage lenders, but have not received all of such required consents. Closing of the acquisition cannot occur until such government approvals and third-party consents are received. We cannot give any assurance that such approvals and consents will be obtained or that the transaction will be completed. If the acquisition of Harborside is not completed because we are unable to obtain all required governmental approvals, we will be required to pay Harborside a termination fee of $8.7 million. We may not be able to successfully integrate our proposed acquisition of Harborside or realize the potential benefits of the acquisition, which could cause our business to suffer. We may not be able to combine successfully the operations of Harborside with our operations if the acquisition is completed and, even if such integration is accomplished, we may never realize the potential benefits of the acquisition. The integration of Harborside with our operations will also require significant attention from management and may impose substantial demands on our operational and financial resources, possibly reducing management’s ability to focus on other operations or other projects. Any delays or increased costs of combining the companies could adversely affect our operations, financial results and liquidity. 9 SUN HEALTHCARE GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES We will incur a significant amount of debt in connection with the proposed acquisition of Harborside. Following the proposed acquisition of Harborside, we currently anticipate we will have indebtedness of approximately $682.0 million (in addition to a $50.0 million revolving credit facility for working capital and general corporate purposes, and a $40.0 million letter of credit facility), the proceeds of which will be used to pay the Harborside purchase price and to refinance certain of our indebtedness (including our Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement with CapitalSource Finance LLC and certain lenders (the “Revolving Loan Agreement”)) and certain indebtedness of Harborside. As such, we would have a significant amount of debt. Our indebtedness could have important consequences, such as requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our debt, limiting our ability to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate requirements and making us more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions. We are subject to a number of lawsuits and rely primarily on self-funded insurance programs for general and professional liability claims against us. Skilled nursing facility operators, including our inpatient services subsidiaries, are subject to lawsuits seeking to hold them liable for the negligent or other wrongful conduct of employees that result in injury or death to residents of the facilities. We currently have numerous patient care lawsuits pending against us, as well as other types of lawsuits, many of which relate to facilities that we no longer operate. Adverse determinations in legal proceedings or any governmental investigations that could lead to lawsuits, whether currently asserted or arising in the future, and any adverse publicity arising therefrom, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We self-insure for the majority of our insurable risks, primarily for general and professional liability, but also for workers’ compensation liability and employee health insurance liability through the use of self-insurance or retrospective and self-funded insurance policies and other hybrid policies, which vary by the states in which we operate. Since January 2000, we have relied upon self-funded insurance programs for general and professional liability claims, which amounts we are responsible for funding, and we have obtained excess insurance policies for claims above those amounts. The programs have the following coverages that we are responsible for self-funding: (i) for events occurring from January 1, 2000 to December 31, 2002, $1.0 million per claim, and $3.0 million aggregate per location; (ii) for claims made in 2003, $10.0 million per claim with excess coverage above this level; and (iii) for claims made in 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007, $5.0 million per claim, with a $5.0 million excess layer that attaches at $5.0 million of liability and a $40.0 million excess layer that attaches at $10.0 million of liability. There is a risk that the amounts funded to our programs of self-insurance and future cash flows may not be sufficient to respond to all claims asserted under those programs. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, we had recorded reserves of $75.1 million and $86.5 million, respectively, for general and professional liability, but we had only pre-funded $4.3 million and $3.6 million, respectively for such claims. We cannot assure you that a claim in excess of our insurance coverage limits will not arise. A claim against us that is not covered by, or is in excess of, our coverage limits provided by our excess insurance policies could have a material adverse effect upon us. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain additional adequate liability insurance in the future or that, if such insurance is available, it will be available on acceptable terms. Our healthcare operations are extensively regulated and adverse determinations against us could result in severe penalties, including loss of licensure and decertification. In the ordinary course of business, we are continuously subject to a wide variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations and to state and federal regulatory scrutiny, supervision and control in various areas, including referral of patients, false claims under Medicare and Medicaid, health and safety laws and the protection of 10 SUN HEALTHCARE GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES health information. These laws and regulations are described in greater detail under the caption “Business—Federal and State Regulatory Oversight.” Such regulatory scrutiny often includes inquiries, civil and criminal investigations, examinations, audits, site visits and surveys, some of which are non-routine. See “Business—Federal and State Regulatory Oversight” and “Item 3 —Legal Proceedings.” If we are found to have engaged in improper practices, we could be subject to civil, administrative or criminal fines, penalties or restitutionary relief or corporate settlement agreements with federal, state or local authorities, and reimbursement authorities could also seek our suspension or exclusion from participation in their program. The exclusion of a facility from participating in Medicare or Medicaid could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We have in the past sustained losses, and may not be able to maintain profitability or generate sufficient operating cash flows to fund our operations. Although we reported net income of $27.1 million and $24.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, prior to June 30, 2005 our operations had not generated sufficient cash flow to operate our businesses, and, as a result, we funded operations through a combination of the proceeds of equity offerings, asset sales and borrowings under a revolving credit facility. Although our operations have generated positive cash flow during the year ended December 31, 2006, we cannot be certain we will continue to generate positive cash flow from operations in the future. We face national, regional and local competition. The healthcare industry is highly competitive and subject to continual changes in the method by which services are provided and the types of companies providing services. Our nursing facilities compete primarily on a local and regional basis with many long-term care providers, some of whom may own as few as a single nursing facility. Our ability to compete successfully varies from location to location depending on a number of factors, including the number of competing facilities in the local market, the types of services available, quality of care, reputation, age and appearance of each facility and the cost of care in each locality. Increased competition in the future could limit our ability to attract and retain residents or to expand our business. State efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of healthcare providers could impair our ability to expand our operations or make acquisitions. Some states require healthcare providers (including skilled nursing facilities, hospices and assisted living centers) to obtain prior approval, in the form of a certificate of need, or CON, for the purchase, construction or expansion of healthcare facilities; capital expenditures exceeding a prescribed amount; or changes in services or bed capacity. To the extent that we are required to obtain a CON or other similar approvals to expand our operations, either by acquiring facilities or other companies or expanding or providing new services or other changes, our expansion could be adversely affected by our failure or inability to obtain the necessary approvals, changes in the standards applicable to those approvals, and possible delays and expenses associated with obtaining those approvals. We cannot make any assurances that we will be able to obtain CON approval for any future projects requiring this approval. We continue to be affected by an industry-wide shortage of qualified facility care-provider personnel and increasing labor costs. We, and other providers in the long-term care industry, have had and continue to have difficulties in retaining qualified personnel to staff our long-term care facilities, particularly nurses, and in such situations we may be required to use temporary employment agencies to provide additional personnel. The labor costs are generally higher for temporary employees than for full-time employees. In addition, many states in which we operate have increased minimum staffing standards. As minimum staffing standards are increased, we may be required to 11 SUN HEALTHCARE GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES retain additional staffing. In addition, in recent years we have experienced increases in our labor costs primarily due to higher wages and greater benefits required to attract and retain qualified personnel and to increase staffing levels in our long-term and sub-acute care facilities. A similar situation exists in the rehabilitation therapy industry. We, and other providers, have had and continue to have difficulties in hiring a sufficient number of rehabilitation therapists. Under these circumstances, we and others in this industry have been required to offer higher compensation to attract and retain these personnel, and we have been forced to rely on independent contractors, at higher costs, to fulfill our contractual commitments with our customers. Existing contractual commitments, regulatory limitations and the market for these services have made it difficult for us to pass through these increased costs to our customers. Although we have undertaken strategic and structural initiatives to address these issues, if these initiatives are unsuccessful, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Delays in collection of our accounts receivable could adversely affect our cash flows and financial condition. Prompt billing and collection are important factors in our liquidity. Billing and collection of our accounts receivable are subject to the complex regulations that govern Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement and rules imposed by non-government payors. Our inability to bill on a timely basis pursuant to these regulations and rules could subject us to payment delays that could negatively impact our cash flows and ultimately our financial condition. If we lose our key management personnel, we may not be able to successfully manage our business and achieve our objectives. Our future success depends in large part upon the leadership and performance of our executive management team, particularly Richard K. Matros, our chief executive officer, and key employees at the operating level. If we lose the services of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, or if one or more of them decides to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives. If we lose the services of any of our key employees at the operating or regional level, we may not be able to replace them with similarly qualified personnel, which could harm our business. We do not expect to pay any dividends for the foreseeable future. We are currently prohibited by the terms of our Revolving Loan Agreement from paying dividends to holders of our common stock, and do not anticipate that we will pay any dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Delaware law and provisions in our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws may delay or prevent takeover attempts by third parties and therefore inhibit our stockholders from realizing a premium on their stock. We are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. This section prevents any stockholder who owns 15% or more of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations with us for a period of three years following the time that the stockholder acquired such stock ownership unless certain approvals were or are obtained from our board of directors or the holders of 66 2/3% of our outstanding common stock. Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws also contain several other provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to 12 SUN HEALTHCARE GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES acquire control of us without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions include, among other things, (i) advance notice for raising business or making nominations at meetings, (ii) an affirmative vote of the holders of 66 2/3% of our outstanding common stock for stockholders to remove directors or amend our Amended and Restated Bylaws or certain provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, and (iii) the ability to issue “blank check” preferred stock, which our board of directors, without stockholder approval, can designate and issue with such dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights, including the right to issue convertible securities with no limitations on conversion. The issuance of blank check preferred stock may adversely affect the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock as our board of directors may designate and issue preferred stock with terms that are senior to our common stock. Our board of directors can use these and other provisions to discourage, delay or prevent a change in the control of our company or a change in our management. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or a change in our board of directors or management could deter potential acquirors or prevent the completion of a transaction in which our stockholders could receive a substantial premium over the then current market price for their shares. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 