Item 1A. Risk Factors Investors should carefully consider the risks described below. In addition, the risks described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Only the risks that the Company considers to be the most material have been described. However, there may be additional risks that are viewed by the Company as not material at the present time or that are not presently known. Conditions could change in the future, or new information may come to the Company’s attention that could impact the assessment of these risks. If any of the events described below were to occur, the Company’s business, prospects, financial condition and/or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Items below are described as items that could potentially have a material adverse effect on the Company meaning that it could or will have one or more of these effects. In any such case, the price of the Company’s common stock could decline, and an investor could lose all or part of their investment in the Company. Because a significant portion of the Company’s sales is to the automotive industry, a decrease in the demand in this industry or the loss of any major customers in this industry could adversely affect the Company’s financial health. Demand for the Company’s products is affected by, among other things, the relative strength or weakness of the automotive industry. The automotive industry is highly cyclical and may be adversely affected by international competition. In addition, the automotive industry is significantly unionized and subject to work slowdowns and stoppages resulting from labor disputes. In fiscal 2006, General Motors accounted for approximately 39.7% of the Company’s revenues and overall automotive industry sales were 79.3%. The loss of a portion of business to any major customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, cash flow and results of operations. The Company cannot offer assurance that it will maintain or improve relationships in the industry or that it will continue to supply customers at current levels. The automotive market that the Company serves is highly competitive, which could limit the volume of products that the Company sells and reduce operating margins. The Company’s products are sold in the highly competitive automotive market. The Company believes that the principal points of competition in this market are product quality and price, design and engineering capabilities, product development, conformity to customer specifications, reliability and timeliness of delivery, customer service and effectiveness of distribution. Maintaining and improving competitive position will require continued investment by the Company in manufacturing, engineering, quality standards, marketing, customer service and support of our distribution networks. The Company may have insufficient resources in the future to continue to make such investments and, even if such investments are made, the Company may not be able to maintain or improve its competitive position. The Company also faces the risk of lower-cost foreign manufacturers competing in the markets for its products and the Company may be driven as a consequence of 8 Table of Contents this competition to increase foreign investment. Making foreign investments can be highly complicated and the Company may not always realize the advantages that are anticipated from any such investments. Competitive pressure may limit the volume of products that the Company sells and reduce operating margins. The Company may encounter difficulty in expanding the business through targeted acquisitions. The Company may pursue targeted acquisition opportunities that it believes would complement its business. Assurances cannot be offered that the Company will be successful in consummating any acquisitions. Any targeted acquisitions will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions of businesses. The Company may not successfully overcome these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with any acquisitions, including the possible inability to integrate an acquired business’ operations, information technologies, services and products into the Company’s business, diversion of management’s attention, the assumption of unknown liabilities, increases in indebtedness, the failure to achieve the strategic objectives of those acquisitions and other unanticipated problems, some or all of which could materially and adversely affect the Company. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, business activities. Any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with any acquisition and the integration of operations could have a material adverse effect on results of operations, financial condition or prospects of the Company’s business. Operating problems in the Company’s business may materially adversely affect the Companys’ financial condition and results of operations. The occurrence of material operating problems at the Company’s facilities may have a material adverse effect on operations as a whole, both during and after the period of operational difficulties. The Company is subject to the usual hazards associated with manufacturing and the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products and waste, including explosions, fires, leaks, discharges, inclement weather, natural disasters, mechanical failure, unscheduled downtime and transportation interruption or calamities. The Company depends on the services of key individuals and relationships, the loss of which would cause material harm. The Company’s success will depend, in part, on the efforts of senior management, including the Chief Executive Officer. The Company’s future success will also depend on, among other factors, the ability to attract and retain other qualified personnel. The loss of the services of any key employees or the failure to attract or retain employees could have a material adverse effect. Restrictions in the Company’s credit facility limit the ability to take certain actions and breaches thereof could impair liquidity. The Company’s credit facility requires compliance with financial covenants relating to, among other things, interest coverage, fixed charges (which includes capital expenditures and capital distributions) and leverage. The Company may not be able to satisfy these covenants in the future or be able to pursue strategies within the constraints of these covenants. Substantially all of the Company’s assets and the assets of domestic subsidiaries are pledged as collateral pursuant to the terms of the credit facility. A breach of a covenant contained in the debt instruments could result in an event of default under one or more debt instruments, accounts receivable facility and lease financing arrangements. Such breaches would permit the lenders under the credit facility to declare all amounts borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, and the commitments of such lenders to make further extensions of credit could be terminated. Each of these circumstances could materially and adversely impair the Company’s liquidity. 9 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 