Item 1A. Risk Factors The following important factors among others, could cause our actual operating results to differ materially from those indicated or suggested by forward-looking statements made in this Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. There are numerous and varied risks, known and unknown, that may prevent us from achieving our goals. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operation may be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and investors could lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to Our Business We have sustained recurring losses since inception and expect to incur additional losses in the foreseeable future. We were formed on November 9, 1992 and have reported annual net losses since inception. For our years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, we experienced net losses allocable to common shareholders of $355,510 and $25,152,667, respectively. As of December 31, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of $137,116,284. In addition, we expect to incur additional losses in the foreseeable future, and there can be no assurance that we will ever achieve profitability. Our future viability, profitability and growth depend upon our ability to successfully operate, expand our operations and obtain additional capital. There can be no assurance that any of our efforts will prove successful or that we will not continue to incur operating losses in the future. 4 We do not have substantial cash resources and if we cannot raise additional funds or generate more revenues, we will not be able to pay our vendors and will probably not be able to continue as a going concern. As of December 31, 2012, our available cash balance was $0. We will need to raise additional funds to pay outstanding vendor invoices and execute our business plan. Our future cash flows depend on our ability to sell our products to retail establishments and/or license our products to third parties. There can be no assurance that additional funds will be available when needed from any source or, if available, will be available on terms that are acceptable to us. We may be required to pursue sources of additional capital through various means, including joint venture projects and debt or equity financings. Future financings through equity investments will be dilutive to existing stockholders. Also, the terms of securities we may issue in future capital transactions may be more favorable for our new investors. Newly issued securities may include preferences, superior voting rights, the issuance of warrants or other convertible securities, which will have additional dilutive effects. Further, we may incur substantial costs in pursuing future capital and/or financing, including investment banking fees, legal fees, accounting fees, printing and distribution expenses and other costs. We may also be required to recognize non-cash expenses in connection with certain securities we may issue, such as convertible notes and warrants, which will adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to obtain needed financing may be impaired by such factors as the weakness of capital markets and the fact that we have not been profitable, which could impact the availability or cost of future financings. If the amount of capital we are able to raise from financing activities, together with our revenues from operations, is not sufficient to satisfy our capital needs, even to the extent that we reduce our operations accordingly, we may be required to cease operations. We have a limited operating history, and it may be difficult for potential investors to evaluate our business. We began operations in November 1992. Our limited operating history makes it difficult for potential investors to evaluate our business or prospective operations. Since our formation, we have generated only limited revenues. There can be no assurance that our efforts will be successful or that we will be able to attain profitability. Risks Relating to Our Organization and Our Common Stock As a publicly registered company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of federal securities laws, which can be expensive and may divert resources from other projects, thus impairing our ability to grow. We are a public reporting company and, accordingly, subject to the information and reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and other federal securities laws, including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”). The costs of preparing and filing annual and quarterly reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC (including reporting of the Merger) and furnishing audited reports to stockholders will cause our expenses to be higher than a private company. If we fail to establish and maintain an effective system of internal control, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or to prevent fraud. Any inability to report and file our financial results accurately and timely could harm our reputation and adversely impact the trading price of our common stock. It may be time consuming, difficult and costly for us to develop and implement the internal controls and reporting procedures required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We may need to hire additional financial reporting, internal controls and other finance personnel in order to develop and implement appropriate internal controls and reporting procedures. Effective internal control is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, we may not be able to manage our business as effectively as we would if an effective control environment existed, and our business and reputation with investors may be harmed. In addition, if we are unable to comply with the internal controls requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, then we may not be able to obtain the independent accountant certifications required by such act, which may preclude us from keeping our filings with the SEC current and may adversely affect any market for, and the liquidity of, our common stock. Public company compliance may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain officers and directors. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act and new rules subsequently implemented by the SEC have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. As a public company, we expect these new rules and regulations to increase our compliance costs and to make certain activities more time consuming and costly. As a public company, we also expect that these new rules and regulations may make it more difficult and expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance in the future and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. 5 Because we are listed on the OTCQB, we may not be able to attract the attention of major brokerage firms. There may be risks associated with us being public and listed on the OTCQB. Securities analysts of major brokerage firms may not provide coverage of us since there is no incentive to brokerage firms to recommend the purchase of our common stock. No assurance can be given that brokerage firms will, in the future, want to conduct any secondary offerings on our behalf. Our stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could fluctuate widely in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: ● changes in our industry; ● competitive pricing pressures; ● our ability to obtain working capital financing; ● additions or departures of key personnel; ● limited “public float” in the hands of a small number of persons whose sales or lack of sales could result in positive or negative pricing pressure on the market price for our common stock; ● sales of our common stock; ● our ability to execute our business plan; ● operating results that fall below expectations; ● loss of any strategic relationship; ● regulatory developments; ● economic and other external factors; and ● period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We may not pay dividends in the future. Any return on investment may be limited to the value of our common stock. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends on our common stock will depend on earnings, financial condition and other business and economic factors affecting us at such time as our board of directors may consider relevant. If we do not pay dividends, our common stock may be less valuable because a return on your investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. There is currently no liquid trading market for our common stock and we cannot ensure that one will ever develop or be sustained. To date there has been limited liquid trading market for our common stock. We cannot predict how liquid the market for our common stock might become. As soon as is practicable after becoming eligible, we anticipate applying for listing of our common stock on either the NYSE Amex Equities, The NASDAQ Capital Market or other national securities exchange, assuming that we can satisfy the initial listing standards for such exchange. We currently do not satisfy the initial listing standards for any of these exchanges, and cannot ensure that we will be able to satisfy such listing standards or that our common stock will be accepted for listing on any such exchange. Should we fail to satisfy the initial listing standards of such exchanges, or our common stock is otherwise rejected for listing and remains quoted on the OTCQB or is suspended from the OTCQB, the trading price of our common stock could suffer and the trading market for our common stock may be less liquid and our common stock price may be subject to increased volatility. Furthermore, for companies whose securities are quoted on the OTCQB, it is more difficult (i) to obtain accurate quotations, (ii) to obtain coverage for significant news events because major wire services generally do not publish press releases about such companies and (iii) to obtain needed capital. 6 Our common stock is currently considered a “penny stock,” which may make it more difficult for our investors to sell their shares. Our common stock is currently considered a “penny stock” and may continue in the future to be subject to the “penny stock” rules adopted under Section 15(g) of the Exchange Act. The penny stock rules generally apply to companies whose common stock is not listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market or other national securities exchange and trades at less than $5.00 per share, other than companies that have had average revenue of at least $6,000,000 for the last three years or that have tangible net worth of at least $5,000,000 ($2,000,000 if the company has been operating for three or more years). These rules require, among other things, that brokers who trade penny stock to persons other than “established customers” complete certain documentation, make suitability inquiries of investors and provide investors with certain information concerning trading in the security, including a risk disclosure document and quote information under certain circumstances. Many brokers have decided not to trade penny stocks because of the requirements of the penny stock rules and, as a result, the number of broker-dealers willing to act as market makers in such securities is limited. If we remain subject to the penny stock rules for any significant period, it could have an adverse effect on the market, if any, for our securities. Since our securities are subject to the penny stock rules, investors may find it more difficult to dispose of our securities. Offers or availability for sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or upon the expiration of any statutory holding period under Rule 144, or issued upon the exercise of outstanding options or warrants, it could create a circumstance commonly referred to as an “overhang” and in anticipation of which the market price of our common stock could fall. The existence of an overhang, whether or not sales have occurred or are occurring, also could make more difficult our ability to raise additional financing through the sale of equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem reasonable or appropriate. Our directors have the right to authorize the issuance of additional shares of our preferred stock and additional shares of our common stock. Our directors, within the limitations and restrictions contained in our articles of incorporation and without further action by our stockholders, have the authority to issue shares of preferred stock from time to time in one or more series and to fix the number of shares and the relative rights, conversion rights, voting rights, and terms of redemption, liquidation preferences and any other preferences, special rights and qualifications of any such series. Any issuance of additional shares of preferred stock could adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock. Should we issue additional shares of our common stock at a later time, each investor's ownership interest in our stock would be proportionally reduced. No investor will have any preemptive right to acquire additional shares of our common stock, or any of our other securities. A sale of a substantial number of shares of the Company's common stock may cause the price of its common stock to decline. If the Company’s stockholders sell substantial amounts of the Company’s common stock in the public market, the market price of its common stock could fall. These sales also may make it more difficult for the Company to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that the Company deems reasonable or appropriate. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 