ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company and its business because such factors may have a significant effect on its operating results and financial condition. As a result of the risk factors set forth below and the information presented elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, actual results could differ materially from those included in any forward-looking statements. Changes in general economic conditions may adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations, and the business of the Company’s customers. The Company’s business may be affected by general economic conditions and uncertainties beyond our control that may cause customers to defer or cancel new orders and sales commitments previously made. Economic difficulties in the United States credit markets and certain international markets could cause a decrease in the overall demand for our products. Uncertainty about the direction and relative strength of the economy in the United States and other important markets may be sufficient reason for customers to delay, defer or cancel purchase decisions, including decisions previously made. Disruptions in credit and other financial markets and deterioration of national and global economic conditions, could, among other things: · adversely affect the Company’s expansion plans; · impair the financial condition of some of the Company’s customers and suppliers, thereby increasing customer bad debts or non-performance by suppliers; · adversely affect the Company’s ability to fund new product development necessary to meet future customer requirements; · negatively affect global demand for the Company’s customers' products, particularly in the food industry, which could result in underutilization of production facilities and a reduction of sales, operating income and cash flows; · negatively affect the Company’s customers’ ability to obtain financing, which could result in a reduction in sales, operating income and cash flows; · decrease the value of the Company’s cash investments in marketable securities; · make it more difficult or costly for the Company to obtain financing for the Company’s operations or investments; · negatively affect the Company’s risk management activities if the Company is required to record losses related to financial instruments or experiences counterparty failure; · require asset write-downs; or · impair the financial viability of the Company’s insurers. Economic conditions in the food processing industry, either globally or regionally, may adversely affect the Company's revenues. The markets served by the Company, particularly the food processing industry, are generally experiencing variable economic conditions. Additionally, varying consumer demand, product supply, and excess plant capacity, most notably in the potato market, could result in reduced or deferred capital equipment purchases for the Company’s product lines. While the Company has reacted to these developments with applications directed to the growing fresh vegetable and fruit industries as well as the pharmaceutical and nutraceutical industries, loss of business, particularly in the potato industry, would have a negative effect on the Company’s sales and net earnings. 11 The loss of any of the Company’s significant customers could reduce the Company’s revenues and profitability. The Company does have significant, strategic customers and the Company anticipates that its operating results may continue to depend on these customers for the foreseeable future. The loss of any one of those customers, or a significant decrease in the volume of products they purchase from the Company, could adversely affect the Company's revenues and materially adversely affect its profitability. Any difficulty in collecting outstanding amounts due from one of those customers may also harm the Company's sales. In addition, sales to any particular large customer may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter causing fluctuations in the Company’s quarterly operating results. The Company is subject to pricing pressure which may reduce the Company’s profitability. The Company faces significant pricing pressures. The Company faces price sensitivity from customers as well as aggressive pricing by its competitors, particularly in periods of excess capacity. These pressures require the Company to be price competitive. In addition, because of their purchasing volume, the Company’s larger customers can influence market participants to compete on price terms. Such customers also use their buying power to negotiate lower prices. If the Company is not able to offset price reductions resulting from these pressures by improved operating efficiencies and reduced expenditures, such price reductions may have an adverse effect on the Company’s profit margins and net earnings. The failure of the Company's independent sales representatives to perform as expected would harm the Company's net sales. Sales by independent sales representatives generally account for between 20% and 30% of the Company's consolidated net sales. If the Company's independent sales representatives fail to market, promote and sell the Company’s products adequately, the Company's business will be adversely affected. The Company's independent sales representatives could reduce or discontinue sales of its products, or they may not devote the resources necessary to sell the Company's products in the volumes and within the time frames that the Company expects, either of which events could adversely affect the Company's revenues and net earnings. The Company may make acquisitions that could disrupt the Company’s operations and harm the Company’s operating results. The Company may in the future make acquisitions of businesses that offer products, services, or technologies that the Company believes would complement its business. Acquisitions present significant challenges and risks and there can be no assurances that the Company will manage acquisitions successfully. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: · significant potential expenditures of cash or stock, and management resources; · difficulty achieving the potential financial and strategic benefits of the acquisition; · difficulties in integrating acquired operations or products, including the potential loss of key employees from the acquired business; · difficulties and costs associated with integrating and evaluating the information systems and internal control systems of the acquired business; · impairment of assets related to goodwill and other intangible assets resulting from the acquisition, and reduction in the Company’s future operating results from amortization of intangible assets; · diversion of management's attention from the Company’s core business, including loss of management focus on marketplace development; · potential difficulties in complying with foreign regulatory requirements, including multi-jurisdictional competition rules; · adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, including the potential loss of suppliers and customers of the acquired business; · assumption of liabilities, known and unknown, related to litigation and other legal process involving the acquired business; · entering geographic areas or distribution channels in which the Company has limited or no prior experience; and · those risks related to general economic and political conditions. 12 There can be no assurance that attractive acquisition opportunities will be available to us, that we will be able to obtain financing for or otherwise consummate any acquisition, or that any acquisition that we do consummate will prove to be successful. The Company's international operations subject the Company to a number of risks that could adversely affect the Company’s revenues, operating results and growth. The Company conducts business outside the United States, which subjects it to the risks inherent in international operations. In fiscal 2010, the Company's international sales represented approximately 50% of its consolidated net sales, compared to 43% of its consolidated net sales in fiscal 2009. Risks inherent in international operations include the following: · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · restrictive governmental actions (such as restrictions on the transfer or repatriation of funds and trade protection measures, including export duties and quotas, customs duties and tariffs, or trade barriers erected by either the United States or other countries where the Company does business); · scrutiny of foreign tax authorities which could result in significant fines, penalties and additional taxes; · changes in import or export licensing requirements; · longer payment cycles; · transportation delays; · pricing pressure that the Company may experience internationally; · economic downturns, civil disturbances or political instability; · geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism or war; · currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations; · difficulties and costs of staffing and managing geographically disparate operations; · changes in labor standards; · laws and business practices favoring local companies; · limitations on the Company's ability under local law to protect its intellectual property; · changes in domestic and foreign tax rates and laws; and · difficulty in obtaining sales representatives and servicing products in foreign countries. Competition and advances in technology may adversely affect sales and profitability. The markets for the Company’s products are competitive. Competitors may be able to adapt or develop technologies to enhance product offerings that directly compete with the Company’s products. Advances in technology may also remove some barriers to market entry, enabling additional competitors to enter the Company’s markets. These competitive factors could force the Company to reduce prices to remain competitive, and decrease the Company’s profits, having a material adverse affect on the Company’s business and financial condition. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue to compete effectively in the future. The Company’s products may not compete successfully in either existing or new markets, which would adversely affect sales and operating results. The future success and growth of the Company is dependent upon its ability to develop, market, and sell products and services in certain food processing markets as well as to introduce new products into other existing and potential markets. There can be no assurance the Company can successfully penetrate these potential markets or expand into new international markets with its current or new and future products. In addition, there are inherent risks in new markets and technologies including length of time and cost for development of these markets and technologies, developing technological capability to address the requirements and performance specifications of new markets, and product reliability issues related to both new technology and adapting existing products to operate in new or rugged operating environment s at customer sites. The failure to meet performance specifications could also damage the profitability and the reputation of the Company and its products. Some of the Company’s competitors manufacture their products in jurisdictions with governmental subsidies or other assistance, or substantially lower effective corporate tax rates than in the United States, which adversely affects the Company’s ability to compete in certain potential markets. 13 The Company’s expansion into new markets and integrated product offerings could increase the cost of operations and reduce gross margins and profitability. The Company's growth strategy includes expansion into new product and geographic markets and the sale of integrated product offerings to provide turnkey solutions to customers. As a result, the Company may encounter new types of competition, and be required to develop new sales channels. Development of such markets and turnkey solutions is likely to require sustained investment, increase the Company's cost of sales, reduce the Company's gross margins to the extent products purchased from others are integrated into our product offerings, and result in overall reduced profitability. The Company is also likely to encounter technical challenges and increased costs related to the integration of products from multiple vendors, adaptation and installation of products in larger and more complex plants, ensurin g product performance in more difficult operating environments, and meeting unfamiliar customer requirements and performance specifications. The Company may also encounter increased warranty costs, performance issues and liability risks from products the Company sells but does not manufacture. Our product offerings depend to a certain extent on products and components manufactured by others. In certain instances, we depend on original equipment manufacturers and other suppliers of components included in our products for the timely delivery of our integrated turnkey products. Such suppliers may experience problems beyond our control which may disrupt our ability to deliver our products to our customers and damage our relationships with current and future customers. These risks may include varying lead times, supplier capacity, delayed shipments, and quality control problems. In addition, supplier pricing may change and be higher than anticipated. As a result of these and other factors, our revenues and profit margins may be adversely affected. The Company's inability to retain and recruit experienced management and other key personnel, or the loss of key management personnel, may adversely affect the Company’s business and prospects for growth. The Company's success depends in part on the skills and experience of its key employees. The loss of services of such employees could adversely affect the Company's business until suitable replacements can be found. In addition, the Company's headquarters are located in Walla Walla, Washington, a small, relatively remote geographic location. As such, there may be a limited number of individuals locally with the requisite skill and experience, and the Company has from time-to-time experienced difficulty recruiting individuals from larger metropolitan areas. Consequently, the Company may not be able to retain and recruit a sufficient number of qualified individuals on acceptable terms to maintain its business or achieve planned growth. Our success also depends to a significant degree upon the continued individual and collective contributions of our management team. A limited number of individuals have primary responsibility for managing our business, including our relationships with key customers. These individuals are integral to our success based on their expertise and knowledge of our business and products. The loss of the services of members of the management team and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The inability to protect the Company’s intellectual property, especially as the Company expands geographically, may adversely affect the Company's competitive advantage. The Company’s competitive position may be affected by its ability to protect its proprietary technology. The Company has obtained certain patents and has filed a number of patent applications. The Company also anticipates filing applications for protection of its future products and technology. There can be no assurance that any such patents will provide meaningful protection for the Company’s product innovations, or that the issuance of a patent will give the Company any material advantage over its competition in connection with any of its products. The Company may experience additional intellectual property risks in international markets where it may lack patent protection. The patent laws of other countries, such as China, may differ from those of the U.S. as to the patentability of the Company’s products and processes. Moreover, the degree of protection afforded by foreign patents may be different from that of U.S. patents. 14 Intellectual property-related litigation expenses and other costs resulting from infringement claims asserted against the Company by third parties may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and its customer relations. The technologies used by the Company may infringe the patents or proprietary technology of others, and the Company has been required in the past to initiate litigation to protect its patents. The cost of enforcing the Company’s patent rights in lawsuits that it may bring against infringers or of defending itself against infringement charges by other patent holders or other third parties, including customers, may be high and could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and its customer relations. The Company's dependence on certain suppliers may leave the Company temporarily without adequate access to raw materials or products. The Company relies on third-party domestic and foreign suppliers for certain raw materials and component products, particularly in the Company’s automated inspection equipment product line. Several of these suppliers are the single source of the raw material or component provided to the Company. The Company does not have long-term contracts with any supplier. The Company may be adversely affected in the event that these suppliers cease operations or if pricing terms become less favorable. The loss of a key vendor may force the Company to purchase its necessary raw materials and components in the open market, which may not be possible or may be at higher prices, until it could secure another source. There is no assurance that the terms of any subsequent supply arrangements th e Company may enter into would be as favorable as the supply arrangements the Company currently has in place. If the Company is unable to replace a key supplier, it may face delays in delivering finished products, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s sales and financial performance. The limited availability and possible cost fluctuations of materials used in the Company's products could adversely affect the Company's gross margins. Certain basic materials, such as stainless steel, and electrical and optical components, are used extensively in the Company’s product fabrication processes. Such basic materials have in the past been subject to worldwide shortages or price fluctuations related to the supply of or demand for raw materials, such as nickel, which are used in their production by the Company’s suppliers. A significant increase in the price or decrease in the availability of one or more of these components, subassemblies or basic materials could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. Compliance with changes in environmental laws, including proposed climate change laws and regulations, could adversely affect our performance. There has been increasing focus by U.S. and overseas governmental authorities on environmental matters, such as climate change, the reduction of greenhouse gases and water consumption. This increased focus may lead to new initiatives directed at regulating an as yet unspecified array of environmental matters, such as the emission of greenhouse gases, where "cap and trade" initiatives could effectively impose a tax on carbon emissions. Legislative, regulatory or other efforts to combat climate change or other environmental concerns could result in future increases in the cost of raw materials, component parts manufactured by others, taxes, transportation and utilities, which could decrease our operating profits and require future investments in facilities and equipment. Compliance with recently passed health care legislation may adversely affect our business. In March 2010, Congress passed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act (collectively, the "Acts"). Among other things, the Acts contain provisions that will affect employer-sponsored health care plans, impose excise taxes on certain plans, and reduce the tax benefits available to employers that receive the Medicare Part D subsidy. We are currently reviewing provisions of the Acts and their impact on our Company-sponsored plans. We are currently unable to estimate costs associated with compliance with the Acts. 15 Our reported results can be affected adversely by the implementation of new, or changes in the interpretation of existing, accounting principles or financial reporting requirements and is expected to require the Company to incur substantial additional expenses. Our financial reporting complies with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"), and GAAP is subject to change over time. If new rules or interpretations of existing rules require us to change our financial reporting (including the adoption of international financial reporting standards in the United States), our reported results of operations and financial condition could be affected substantially, including requirements to restate historical financial statements. Our management team may need to devote significant time and financial resources to comply with evolving standards, which may lead to increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure will result in additional expenses and pose challenges for our management. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and SEC regulations, have created uncertainty for public companies and significantly increased the costs and risks associated with accessing the U.S. public markets. Our management team will need to devote significant time and financial resources to comply with both existing and evolving standards for public companies, which will lead to increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. Changes in the Company's tax rates could affect profitability. The Company is subject to corporate income taxes in several jurisdictions of the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. The Company's effective income tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws. In addition, increases in business taxes or sales related taxes in these various jurisdictions may adversely affect the Company’s costs and result in future increases in the cost of products and services purchased from others. The price of the Company's common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for shareholders to resell common stock when they want or at prices they find attractive. The Company expects that the price of its common stock could fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond its control. These factors include: · quarterly variations in the Company's operating results; · operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; · significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments involving the Company or its competitors; · changes in expectations as to the Company's future financial performance; · the operating and securities price performance of other companies that investors believe are comparable to the Company; · the size of the Company’s public float and the liquidity of the Company’s common stock; · future sales of the Company's equity or equity-related securities; · changes in general conditions in the Company's industry and in the economy, the financial markets and the domestic or international political situation; and · departures of key personnel. In addition, in recent periods the stock market in general has experienced price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons often unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the Company's stock price, regardless of its operating results. 16 