ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company and its business because such factors may have a significant effect on its operating results and financial condition. As a result of the risk factors set forth below and the information presented elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, actual results could differ materially from those included in any forward-looking statements. Current worldwide economic conditions may adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations, and the business of the Company’s customers. The Company’s business may be affected by general economic conditions and uncertainty that may cause customers to defer or cancel new orders and sales commitments previously made to us. Recent economic difficulties in the United States credit markets and certain international markets may lead to an economic recession in some or all of the markets in which the Company operates. A recession or even the risk of a potential recession may be sufficient reason for customers to delay, defer or cancel purchase decisions, including decisions previously made. The recent disruptions in credit and other financial markets and deterioration of national and global economic conditions, could, among other things: · adversely affect the Company’s expansion plans; · impair the financial condition of some of the Company’s customers and suppliers, thereby increasing customer bad debts or non-performance by suppliers; · negatively affect global demand for the Company’s customers' products, particularly in the food industry, which could result in a reduction of sales, operating income and cash flows; · negatively affect the Company’s customer’s ability to get financing, which could result in a reduction in sales, operating income and cash flows; · decrease the value of the Company’s cash investments in marketable securities; · make it more difficult or costly for the Company to obtain financing for the Company’s operations or investments; · negatively affect the Company’s risk management activities if the Company is required to record losses related to financial instruments or experience counterparty failure; · require asset write-downs; or · impair the financial viability of the Company’s insurers. Adverse economic conditions in the food processing industry, either globally or regionally, may adversely affect the Company's revenues. The markets the Company serves, particularly the food processing industry, are experiencing variable economic conditions. Additionally, varying consumer demand, product supply, and plant capacity, most notably in the potato market, could result in reduced or deferred capital equipment purchases for the Company’s product lines. While the Company has reacted to these developments with applications directed to the growing fresh vegetable and fruit industries as well as the pharmaceutical and nutraceutical industries, loss of business, particularly in the potato industry, would have a negative effect on the Company’s sales and net earnings. 10 Table of Contents The loss of any of the Company’s significant customers could reduce the Company’s revenues and profitability. The Company does have significant, strategic customers and the Company anticipates that its operating results may continue to depend on these customers for the foreseeable future. The loss of any one of those customers, or a significant decrease in the volume of products they purchase from the Company, could adversely affect the Company's revenues and materially adversely affect its profitability. Any difficulty in collecting outstanding amounts due from one of those customers may also harm the Company's sales. In addition, sales to any particular large customer may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter causing fluctuations in the Company’s quarterly operating results. The Company is subject to pricing pressure from its larger customers which may reduce the Company’s profitability. The Company faces significant pricing pressures from its larger customers. Because of their purchasing volume, the Company’s larger customers can influence market participants to compete on price terms. Such customers also use their buying power to negotiate lower prices. If the Company is not able to offset price reductions resulting from these pressures by improved operating efficiencies and reduced expenditures, such price reductions may have an adverse effect on the Company’s profit margins and net earnings. The failure of any of the Company's independent sales representatives to perform as expected would harm the Company's net sales. In fiscal 2008, sales by independent sales representatives accounted for approximately 26% of the Company's consolidated net sales. If the Company's independent sales representatives fail to market, promote and sell the Company’s products adequately, the Company's business will be adversely affected. The Company's independent sales representatives could reduce or discontinue sales of its products, or they may not devote the resources necessary to sell the Company's products in the volumes and within the time frames that the Company expects, either of which events could adversely affect the Company's revenues and net earnings. The Company may make acquisitions that could disrupt the Company’s operations and harm the Company’s operating results. The Company may in the future make acquisitions of businesses that offer products, services, or technologies that the Company believes would complement its business. Acquisitions present significant challenges and risks and there can be no assurances that the Company will manage acquisitions successfully. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: · significant potential expenditures of cash, stock, and management resources; · difficulty achieving the potential financial and strategic benefits of the acquisition; · difficulties in integrating acquired operations or products, including the potential loss of key employees from the acquired business; · difficulties and costs associated with integrating and evaluating the information systems and internal control systems of the acquired business; · impairment of assets related to goodwill resulting from the acquisition, and reduction in the Company’s future operating results from amortization of intangible assets; · diversion of management's attention from the Company’s core business, including loss of management focus on marketplace development; · potential difficulties in complying with foreign regulatory requirements, including multi-jurisdictional competition rules; · adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, including the potential loss of suppliers and customers of the acquired business; · assumption of liabilities, known and unknown, related to litigation and other legal process involving the acquired business; · entering geographic areas or distribution channels in which the Company has limited or no prior experience; and · those risks related to general economic and political conditions. 11 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that attractive acquisition opportunities will be available to us, that we will be able to obtain financing for or otherwise consummate any acquisition, or that any acquisition that we do consummate will prove to be successful. Issues arising during the implementation of the Company's enterprise resource planning system could affect the Company’s operating results and ability to manage the Company’s business effectively. The Company is in the process of implementing an enterprise resource planning, or ERP, system in the near future to enhance operating efficiencies and provide more effective management of the Company's business operations. If the Company experiences problems with the implementation of the ERP system, the resulting disruption could adversely affect the Company's sales, manufacturing processes, results of operations and financial condition. Implementing the Company's ERP system involves numerous risks, including: · the possibility that the complexities related to switching certain management information functions to the ERP system will be greater than expected; · the possibility that the implementation could disrupt operations if the transition to the ERP system creates new or unexpected difficulties, or if the ERP system does not perform as expected; · difficulties integrating the new ERP system with the Company's current operations; · potential delays in processing customer orders for shipment of products; · diversion of management's attention from normal daily business operations; · dependence on an unfamiliar system while the Company continues to train employees on the ERP system; and · increased operating expenses resulting from training, conversion and transition support activities. If the Company's ERP system is not implemented properly, it could cause errors in the Company's financial reporting. The Company may experience difficulties in transitioning to the ERP system that could disrupt its ability to timely and accurately process and report key components of the Company's results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Any disruptions or difficulties that may occur in connection with implementing, making changes to or enhancing the Company's ERP system could also adversely affect its ability to complete the evaluation of its internal controls and attestation activities pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Company's international operations subject the Company to a number of risks that could adversely affect the Company’s revenues, operating results and growth. The Company conducts business outside the United States, which subjects it to the risks inherent in international operations. In fiscal 2008, the Company's international sales represented approximately 50% of its consolidated net sales, compared to 46% of its consolidated net sales in fiscal 2007. Risks inherent in international operations include the following: · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · restrictive governmental actions (such as restrictions on the transfer or repatriation of funds and trade protection measures, including export duties and quotas, customs duties and tariffs, or trade barriers erected by either the United States or other countries where the Company does business); · scrutiny of foreign tax authorities which could result in significant fines, penalties and additional taxes; · changes in import or export licensing requirements; · longer payment cycles; · transportation delays; · pricing pressure that the Company may experience internationally; 12 Table of Contents · economic downturns, civil disturbances or political instability; · geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism or war; · currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations; · difficulties and costs of staffing and managing geographically disparate operations; · changes in labor standards; · laws and business practices favoring local companies; · limitations on the Company's ability under local laws to protect its intellectual property; · changes in domestic and foreign tax rates and laws; and · difficulty in obtaining sales representatives and servicing products in foreign countries. Competition and advances in technology may adversely affect sales and prices. The markets for the Company’s products are competitive. Advances in technology may remove some barriers to market entry, enabling additional competitors to enter the Company’s markets. Such additional competition could force the Company to reduce prices to remain competitive, and decrease the Company’s profits, having a material adverse affect on the Company’s business and financial condition. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue to compete effectively in the future. The Company’s new products may not compete successfully in either existing or new markets, which would adversely affect sales. The future success and growth of the Company is dependent upon its ability to develop, market, and sell products and services in certain food processing markets as well as to introduce new products into other existing and potential markets. There can be no assurance the Company can successfully penetrate these potential markets or expand into new international markets with its current or new and future products. Many of the Company’s competitors manufacture their products in jurisdictions with substantially lower corporate tax rates than in the United States which adversely affects the Company’s ability to compete in certain potential markets. The Company's inability to retain and recruit experienced personnel may adversely affect the Company’s business and prospects for growth. The Company's success depends in part on the skills and experience of its key employees. The loss of services of such employees could adversely affect the Company's business until suitable replacements can be found. In addition, the Company's headquarters are located in Walla Walla, Washington, a small, relatively remote geographic location. As such, there may be a limited number of individuals locally with the requisite skill and experience, and the Company has from time-to-time experienced difficulty recruiting individuals from larger metropolitan areas. Consequently, the Company may not be able to retain and recruit a sufficient number of qualified individuals on acceptable terms to maintain its business or achieve planned growth. The loss of members of the Company’s management team could substantially disrupt the Company’s business operations. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued individual and collective contributions of our management team. A limited number of individuals have primary responsibility for managing our business, including our relationships with key customers. These individuals are integral to our success based on their expertise and knowledge of our business and products. The loss of the services of members of the management team and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The inability to protect the Company’s intellectual property, especially as the Company expands geographically, may adversely affect the Company's competitive advantage. The Company’s competitive position may be affected by its ability to protect its proprietary technology. The Company has obtained certain patents and has filed a number of patent applications. The Company also anticipates filing applications for protection of its future products and technology. There can be no assurance that any such 13 Table of Contents patents will provide meaningful protection for the Company’s product innovations, or that the issuance of a patent will give the Company any material advantage over its competition in connection with any of its products. The Company may experience additional intellectual property risks in international markets where it may lack patent protection. The patent laws of other countries, such as China, may differ from those of the U.S. as to the patentability of the Company’s products and processes. Moreover, the degree of protection afforded by foreign patents may be different from that of U.S. patents. Intellectual property-related litigation expenses and other costs resulting from infringement claims asserted against the Company by third parties may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and its customer relations. The technologies used by the Company may infringe the patents or proprietary technology of others, and the Company has been required in the past to initiate litigation to protect its patents. The cost of enforcing the Company’s patent rights in lawsuits that it may bring against infringers or of defending itself against infringement charges by other patent holders or other third parties, including customers, may be high and could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and its customer relations. The Company's dependence on certain suppliers may leave the Company temporarily without adequate access to raw materials or products. The Company relies on third-party domestic and foreign suppliers for certain raw materials and component products, particularly in the Company’s automated inspection equipment product line. Several of these suppliers are the single source of the raw material or component provided to the Company. The Company does not have long-term contracts with any supplier. The Company may be adversely affected in the event that these suppliers cease operations or if pricing terms become less favorable. The loss of a key vendor may force the Company to purchase its necessary raw materials and components in the open market, which may not be possible or may be at higher prices, until it could secure another source. There is no assurance that the terms of any subsequent supply arrangements the Company may enter into would be as favorable as the supply arrangements the Company currently has in place. If the Company is unable to replace a key supplier, it may face delays in delivering finished products, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s sales and financial performance. The limited availability and possible cost fluctuations of materials used in the Company's products could adversely affect the Company's gross margins. Certain basic materials, such as stainless steel, are used extensively in the Company’s product fabrication processes. Such basic materials have in the recent past been subject to worldwide shortages or price fluctuations related to the supply of or demand for raw materials, such as nickel, which are used in their production by the Company’s suppliers. A significant increase in the price or decrease in the availability of one or more of these components, subassemblies or basic materials could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The price of the Company's common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for shareholders to resell common stock when they want or at prices they find attractive. The Company expects that the price of its common stock could fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond its control. These factors include: · quarterly variations in the Company's operating results; · operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; · significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments involving the Company or its competitors; · changes in expectations as to the Company's future financial performance; · the operating and securities price performance of other companies that investors believe are comparable to the Company; · future sales of the Company's equity or equity-related securities; 14 Table of Contents · changes in general conditions in the Company's industry and in the economy, the financial markets and the domestic or international political situation; and · departures of key personnel. In addition, in recent periods the stock market in general has experienced unprecedented price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons often unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the Company's stock price, regardless of its operating results. ITEM 