Item 1A. Risk Factors. Forward-Looking Statements Some of the statements in this Form 10-K, as well as statements made by us in periodic press releases or other public communications, constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Certain, but not necessarily all, of such forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, such as “believes,” “expects,” “may,” “will,” “should,” or “anticipates” or the negative thereof or other comparable terminology. All statements other than of historical facts are forward looking statements. Forward looking statements contained in this document include those regarding market trends, NVR’s financial position, business strategy, the outcome of pending litigation, projected plans and objectives of management for future operations. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results or performance of NVR to be materially different from future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Such risk factors include, but are not limited to the following: general economic and business conditions (on both a national and regional level); interest rate changes; access to suitable financing by NVR and NVR’s customers; competition; the availability and cost of land and other raw materials used by NVR in its homebuilding operations; shortages of labor; weather related slow-downs; building moratoriums; governmental regulation; fluctuation and volatility of stock and other financial markets; mortgage financing availability; and other factors over which NVR has little or no control. NVR undertakes no obligation to update such forward-looking statements. 6 Table of Contents RISK FACTORS Our business is affected by the risks generally incident to the residential construction business, including, but not limited to: • the availability of mortgage financing; • actual and expected direction of interest rates, which affect our costs, the availability of construction financing, and long-term financing for potential purchasers of homes; • the availability of adequate land in desirable locations on favorable terms; • unexpected changes in customer preferences; and • changes in the national economy and in the local economies of the markets in which we have operations. All of these risks are discussed in detail below. The homebuilding industry is experiencing a significant downturn. The continuation of this downturn could adversely affect our business and our results of operations. The homebuilding industry has continued to experience a significant downturn as a result of declining consumer confidence driven by an economic recession, affordability issues and uncertainty as to the stability of home prices. Additionally, the tightening credit markets have made it more difficult for customers to obtain financing to purchase homes. As a result, we have experienced reduced demand for new homes. Our cancellation rate was approximately 14%, 23% and 21% during 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. These ongoing market factors have also resulted in pricing pressures and in turn lower gross profit margins in most of our markets. A continued downturn in the homebuilding industry could result in a material adverse effect on our sales (fewer gross sales and/or higher cancellation rates), profitability, stock performance, ability to service our debt obligations and future cash flows. If the market value of our inventory or controlled lot position declines, our profit could decrease and we may incur losses. Inventory risk can be substantial for homebuilders. The market value of building lots and housing inventories can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing market conditions. In addition, inventory carrying costs can be significant and can result in losses in a poorly performing project or market. We must, in the ordinary course of our business, continuously seek and make acquisitions of lots for expansion into new markets as well as for replacement and expansion within our current markets, which is accomplished by us entering fixed price purchase agreements and paying forfeitable deposits under the purchase agreement to developers for the contractual right to acquire the lots. In the event of further adverse changes in economic or market conditions, we may cease further building activities in communities or restructure existing purchase agreements, resulting in forfeiture of some or all of any remaining land contract deposit paid to the developer. Either action may result in a loss which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability, stock performance, ability to service our debt obligations and future cash flows. If the tax credit available to first time homebuyers expires on July 1, 2010 and is not renewed, it may negatively impact our future sales. As part of the Federal government’s economic stimulus efforts, first time homebuyers may receive an $8,000 tax credit and current homeowners purchasing a replacement primary residence may receive a $6,500 tax credit when filing their Federal income tax return if they purchase the primary residence by April 30, 2010 and settle on the home prior to July 1, 2010, which is the date that the homebuyer tax credit program expires. It is unclear at this time if the Federal government is going to extend or expand that program past July 1, 2010. This program and the prior first time homebuyer tax credit program may have stimulated our sales over the recent quarters to levels that would not have been achieved without the program being in effect. Further, there is a possibility that the availability of the program to homebuyers pulled sales forward from future 7 Table of Contents quarters which could lead to reduced demand in the immediate future. The expiration of the first time homebuyer tax credit could result in a material adverse effect on our sales, profitability, stock performance, ability to service our debt obligations and future cash flows. Because almost all of our customers require mortgage financing, the availability of suitable mortgage financing could impair the affordability of our homes, lower demand for our products, and limit our ability to fully deliver our backlog. Our business and earnings depend on the ability of our potential customers to obtain mortgages for the purchase of our homes. In addition, many of our potential customers must sell their existing homes in order to buy a home from us. The tightening of credit standards and the availability of suitable mortgage financing could prevent customers from buying our homes and could prevent buyers of our customers’ homes from obtaining mortgages they need to complete that purchase, both of which could result in our potential customers’ inability to buy a home from us. If our potential customers or the buyers of our customers’ current homes are not able to obtain suitable financing, the result could have a material adverse effect on our sales, profitability, stock performance, ability to service our debt obligations and future cash flows. If our ability to sell mortgages to investors is impaired, we may be required to fund these commitments ourselves, or may not be able to originate loans at all. Our mortgage segment sells all of the loans it originates into the secondary market usually within 30 days from the date of closing, and has up to approximately $100 million available in a repurchase agreement to fund mortgage closings. In the event that disruptions to the secondary markets similar to those which occurred during 2007 and 2008 continue to tighten or eliminate the available liquidity within the secondary markets for mortgage loans, or the underwriting requirements by our secondary market investors continue to become more stringent, our ability to sell future mortgages could decline and we could be required, among other things, to fund our commitments to our buyers with our own financial resources, which is limited, or require our home buyers to find another source of financing. In addition, government-sponsored enterprises, principally FNMA and FHLMC, play a significant role in buying home mortgages and creating investment securities that they either sell to investors or hold in their portfolios. These organizations, as well as the Federal Reserve’s program to purchase mortgage-backed securities, provide liquidity to the secondary mortgage market. The effects of the government takeover of FNMA and FHLMC are not yet certain and may restrict or curtail their activities and further disrupt the secondary markets. In addition, the Federal Reserve is expected to discontinue purchasing mortgage-backed securities in 2010. The result of such secondary market disruption could have a material adverse effect on our sales, profitability, stock performance, ability to service our debt obligations and future cash flows. Interest rate movements, inflation and other economic factors can negatively impact our business. High rates of inflation generally affect the homebuilding industry adversely because of their adverse impact on interest rates. High interest rates not only increase the cost of borrowed funds to homebuilders but also have a significant effect on housing demand and on the affordability of permanent mortgage financing to prospective purchasers. We are also subject to potential volatility in the price of commodities that impact costs of materials used in our homebuilding business. Increases in prevailing interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our sales, profitability, stock performance, ability to service our debt obligations and future cash flows. Our financial results also are affected by the risks generally incident to our mortgage banking business, including interest rate levels, the impact of government regulation on mortgage loan originations and servicing and the need to issue forward commitments to fund and sell mortgage loans. Our homebuilding customers account for almost all of our mortgage banking business. The volume of our continuing homebuilding operations therefore affects our mortgage banking business. 8 Table of Contents Our mortgage banking business also is affected by interest rate fluctuations. We also may experience marketing losses resulting from daily increases in interest rates to the extent we are unable to match interest rates and amounts on loans we have committed to originate with forward commitments from third parties to purchase such loans. Increases in interest rates may have a material adverse effect on our mortgage banking revenue, profitability, stock performance, ability to service our debt obligations and future cash flows. Our operations may also be adversely affected by other economic factors within our markets such as negative changes in employment levels, job growth, and consumer confidence and availability of mortgage financing, one or all of which could result in reduced demand or price depression from current levels. Such negative trends could have a material adverse effect on homebuilding operations. These factors and thus, the homebuilding business, have at times in the past been cyclical in nature. Any downturn in the national economy or the local economies of the markets in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our sales, profitability, stock performance and ability to service our debt obligations. In particular, approximately 38% of our home settlements during 2009 occurred in the Washington, D.C. and Baltimore, MD metropolitan areas, which accounted for 48% of our homebuilding revenues in 2009. Thus, we are dependent to a significant extent on the economy and demand for housing in those areas. Our inability to secure and control an adequate inventory of lots could adversely impact our operations. The results of our homebuilding operations are dependent upon our continuing ability to control an adequate number of homebuilding lots in desirable locations. There can be no assurance that an adequate supply of building lots will continue to be available to us on terms similar to those available in the past, or that we will not be required to devote a greater amount of capital to controlling building lots than we have historically. An insufficient supply of building lots in one or more of our markets, an inability of our developers to deliver finished lots in a timely fashion due to their inability to secure financing to fund development activities or for other reasons, or our inability to purchase or finance building lots on reasonable terms could have a material adverse effect on our sales, profitability, stock performance, ability to service our debt obligations and future cash flows. Volatility in the credit and capital markets may impact our ability to access necessary financing. Our homebuilding operations are dependent in part on the availability and cost of working capital financing, and may be adversely affected by a shortage or an increase in the cost of such financing. If we require working capital greater than that provided by our operations and our credit facility, we may be required to seek to increase the amount available under the facility or to obtain alternative financing. No assurance can be given that additional or replacement financing will be available on terms that are favorable or acceptable. Moreover, issues involving liquidity and capital adequacy affecting our lenders could in turn affect our ability to fully access our available credit facilities. In addition, the credit and capital markets are experiencing significant volatility that is difficult to predict. If we are required to seek alternative financing to fund our working capital requirements, continued volatility in these markets may restrict our flexibility to access financing. If we are at any time unsuccessful in obtaining sufficient capital to fund our planned homebuilding expenditures, we may experience a substantial delay in the completion of any homes then under construction, or we may be unable to control or purchase finished building lots. Any delay could result in cost increases and could have a material adverse effect on our sales, profitability, stock performance, ability to service our debt obligations and future cash flows. Our mortgage banking operations are dependent on the availability, cost and other terms of mortgage financing facilities, and may be adversely affected by any shortage or increased cost of such financing. No assurance can be given that any additional or replacement financing will be available on terms that are favorable or acceptable. Our mortgage banking operations are also dependent upon the securitization market for mortgage-backed securities, and could be materially adversely affected by any fluctuation or downturn in such market. 9 Table of Contents Our current indebtedness may impact our future operations. Our existing indebtedness contains financial and other restrictive covenants and any future indebtedness may also contain covenants. These covenants include limitations on our ability, and the ability of our subsidiaries, to incur additional indebtedness, pay cash dividends and make distributions, make loans and investments, enter into transactions with affiliates, effect certain asset sales, incur certain liens, merge or consolidate with any other person, or transfer all or substantially all of our properties and assets. Substantial losses by us or other action or inaction by us or our subsidiaries could result in the violation of one or more of these covenants which could result in decreased liquidity or a default on our indebtedness, thereby having a material adverse effect on our sales, profitability, stock performance, ability to service our debt obligations and future cash flows. Government regulations and environmental matters could negatively affect our operations. We are subject to various local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning zoning, building design, construction and similar matters, including local regulations that impose restrictive zoning and density requirements in order to limit the number of homes that can eventually be built within the boundaries of a particular area. These regulations may further increase the cost to produce and market our products. In addition, we have from time to time been subject to, and may also be subject in the future to, periodic delays in our homebuilding projects due to building moratoriums in the areas in which we operate. Changes in regulations that restrict homebuilding activities in one or more of our principal markets could have a material adverse effect on our sales, profitability, stock performance, ability to service our debt obligations and future cash flows. We are also subject to a variety of local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning the protection of health and the environment. We are subject to a variety of environmental conditions that can affect our business and our homebuilding projects. The particular environmental laws that apply to any given homebuilding site vary greatly according to the location and environmental condition of the site and the present and former uses of the site and adjoining properties. Environmental laws and conditions may result in delays, cause us to incur substantial compliance and other costs, or prohibit or severely restrict homebuilding activity in certain environmentally sensitive regions or areas, thereby adversely affecting our sales, profitability, stock performance, ability to service our debt obligations and future cash flows. We are an approved seller/servicer of FNMA, GNMA, FHLMC, FHA and VA mortgage loans, and are subject to all of those agencies’ rules and regulations. Any significant impairment of our eligibility to sell/service these loans could have a material adverse impact on our mortgage operations. In addition, we are subject to regulation at the state and federal level with respect to specific origination, selling and servicing practices including the Real Estate Settlement and Protection Act. Adverse changes in governmental regulation may have a negative impact on our mortgage loan origination business. We face competition in our housing and mortgage banking operations. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive. We compete with numerous homebuilders of varying size, ranging from local to national in scope, some of whom have greater financial resources than we do. We face competition: • for suitable and desirable lots at acceptable prices; • from selling incentives offered by competing builders within and across developments; and • from the existing home resale market. Our homebuilding operations compete primarily on the basis of price, location, design, quality, service and reputation. 10 Table of Contents The mortgage banking industry is also competitive. Our main competition comes from national, regional and local mortgage bankers, thrifts, banks and mortgage brokers in each of these markets. Our mortgage banking operations compete primarily on the basis of customer service, variety of products offered, interest rates offered, prices of ancillary services and relative financing availability and costs. There can be no assurance that we will continue to compete successfully in our homebuilding or mortgage banking operations. An inability to effectively compete may have an adverse impact on our sales, profitability, stock performance, ability to service our debt obligations and future cash flows. A shortage of building materials or labor, or increases in materials or labor costs may adversely impact our operations. The homebuilding business has from time to time experienced building material and labor shortages, including shortages in insulation, drywall, certain carpentry work and concrete, as well as fluctuating lumber prices and supply. In addition, high employment levels and strong construction market conditions could restrict the labor force available to our subcontractors and us in one or more of our markets. Significant increases in costs resulting from these shortages, or delays in construction of homes, could have a material adverse effect upon our sales, profitability, stock performance, ability to service our debt obligations and future cash flows. Product liability litigation and warranty claims may adversely impact our operations. Construction defect and home warranty claims are common and can represent a substantial risk for the homebuilding industry. The cost of insuring against construction defect and product liability claims, as well as the claims themselves, can be high. In addition, insurance companies limit coverage offered to protect against these claims. Further restrictions on coverage availability, or significant increases in premium costs or claims, could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We are subject to litigation proceedings that could harm our business if an unfavorable ruling were to occur. From time to time, we may become involved in litigation and other legal proceedings relating to claims arising from our operations in the normal course of business. As described in, but not limited to, Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” of this 10-K, we are currently subject to certain legal proceedings. Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings may occur. We cannot assure you that these or other litigation or legal proceedings will not materially affect our ability to conduct our business in the manner that we expect or otherwise adversely affect us should an unfavorable ruling occur. Changes in tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws may negatively affect our operating results. The effects of possible changes in the tax laws or changes in their interpretation could have a material negative impact on our financial results. Certain of our net deferred tax assets could be substantially limited if we experience an ownership change as defined in the Internal Revenue Code. Certain of our net deferred tax assets give rise to built-in losses (“BILs”). Our ability to utilize BILs and to offset our future taxable income and/or to recover previously paid taxes would be limited if we were to undergo an “ownership change” within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, which we refer to as the Code. In general, an “ownership change” occurs whenever the percentage of the stock of a corporation owned by “5-percent shareholders” (within the meaning of Section 382 of the Code) increases by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of the stock of such corporation owned by such “5-percent shareholders” at any time over the preceding three years. 11 Table of Contents An ownership change under Section 382 of the Code would establish an annual limitation on the amount of BILs we could utilize to offset our taxable income in any single taxable year to an amount equal to (i) the product of a specified rate, which is published by the U.S. Treasury, and the aggregate value of our outstanding stock plus (ii) the amount of unutilized limitation from prior years. The application of these limitations might prevent full utilization of the deferred tax assets attributable to our BILs. We do not believe we have experienced an ownership change as defined by Section 382 and, therefore, we do not believe the BILs are subject to any Section 382 limitation. However, whether a change in ownership occurs in the future is largely outside of our control, and there can be no assurance that such a change will not occur. Weather-related and other events beyond our control may adversely impact our operations. Extreme weather or other events, such as significant snowfalls, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, forest fires, floods, terrorist attacks or war, may affect our markets, our operations and our profitability. These events may impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or subcontractors, causing us material increases in costs, or delays in construction of homes, which could have a material adverse effect upon our sales, profitability, stock performance, ability to service our debt obligations and future cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 