Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K, in evaluating our Company. If any of the risks described below actually occurs, our business, financial results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business Federal Government Contracting Risks: Our largest customer, the U.S. federal government, accounts for the vast majority of our revenue and earnings. Inherent in the government contracting process are unique risks which may materially and adversely affect our business and profitability. Revenue from services provided as a prime contractor or subcontractor on contracts with federal government clients accounts for approximately 98% of our revenue for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2013. In the federal government market customer relationships involve certain unique risks. · A reduction in federal government spending or changes in spending policies or budget priorities. Changes in spending levels and budget priorities may result from changes in U.S. government leadership, the number of and intensity of and strategy related to military conflicts, the size of the federal budget deficit, increasing political pressure to reduce overall levels of government spending, disruptions in the U.S. Treasury bond markets, shifts in spending priorities as a result of competing demands for federal funds, in-sourcing efforts aimed at improving the organic capabilities of the federal government, or other factors. · The failure by Congress to pass the annual budget on a timely basis may delay funding we expect to receive from clients on work we are already performing and may result in any new initiatives being delayed, and potentially cancelled. · A delay by Congress to raise the amount of U.S. federal government debt. The amount of U.S. federal government debt is limited by statute, and this so-called debt ceiling can only be raised by an act of Congress. If Congress does not timely act to raise the debt ceiling when necessary, federal government spending would be subject to reduction, suspension or cancellation. · Automatic across-the-board spending cuts to civil and defense programs as a result of the sequester. Although the Office of Management and Budget recently issued guidance on the implementation of the sequester, the impact the sequester will have on contractors supporting the U.S. federal government remains uncertain. We are not able to predict the impact of budget cuts or automatic spending cuts related to the sequester and expect that budgetary constraints and related concerns will continue to place downward pressure on government spending levels that may reduce, delay or cancel funding for certain of our contracts and programs that may adversely impact our operations, financial results and growth prospects; · Federal government contracts generally are not fully funded at inception. These contracts typically span one or more base years and multiple option years. Congress generally appropriates funds for these contracts for only one year at a time. The government generally has the unilateral right to reduce or modify contracts or subcontracts, or decline to exercise an option to renew a multi-year contract. · We generally encounter intense competition to win federal government contracts. We spend substantial cost and managerial time and effort to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us, which may result in reduced profitability. Increased competition in the industry may cause some of the services we provide to become “commoditized” and more competitively priced causing downward pressure on profit margins. · Many federal government contract award decisions are subject to protest by competitors, which may require the contracting federal agency or department to suspend our performance pending the outcome of the protest and may also result in a requirement to resubmit bids for the contract or in the termination, reduction, or modification of the awarded contract. · Government regulations on organizational conflicts of interest, which may limit our ability to compete for or perform certain contracts. The government could determine that an organizational conflict of interest or other conflict of interest, such as a personal conflict of interest, exists. If a conflict is perceived or exists we may be deemed unable to render impartial assistance or advice to the government. Therefore, we may be ineligible to compete for certain procurements as it would create an unfair competitive advantage. 13 · Many government contracts require that our employees maintain various levels of security clearances and that we have certain facility security clearances. To the extent we are not able to obtain facility clearances, engage employees with the required security clearances for a particular contract, or maintain connections to controlled government information systems, we may not be able to bid or win new contracts, or effectively re-compete on expiring contracts. · Federal government contracts generally allow the government to terminate a contract, with short or no prior notice, for convenience, as well as for default in the event we fail to meet contractual obligations. If a government client terminates one of our contracts for convenience, we would generally be able to recover only our incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses, and profit on work completed prior to the termination. If one of our contracts is terminated for default, we would generally be entitled to payments for our work that has been accepted by the government. A termination for default could expose us to liability for the client’s costs of re-procurement, damage our reputation, and impair our ability to compete for future contracts. · Our federal customers may cancel pending solicitations, decline to exercise options on existing contracts, or determine not to allot additional funding to cost-reimbursement contracts despite the fact that we may have incurred costs related to pursuing a particular opportunity. The government may also reduce contract scope pursuant to the Federal Acquisition Regulation, or FAR, “Changes” clause, cancel multi-year contracts if funds are not available for contract performance for a subsequent program year, suspend or delay performance, issue stop work orders, opt not to purchase more than the minimum under an indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity contract, terminate contracts for the Government’s convenience, or not renew programs. With fewer federal funds available, issues once resolved as routine contract administration matters (e.g., requests for equitable adjustments, change orders, economic price adjustments, delay claims, etc.) may increasingly lead to more litigation. Extensive contract terminations or contract scope reductions could require us to lay-off employees and incur significant severance, relocation and facility closing costs, reducing our revenues and margins. · In connection with the Small Business Administration, or SBA, set-aside program, the government may decide to restrict certain procurements only to bidders that qualify as small, small-disadvantaged, minority-owned businesses, or other such programs. As a result, we would not be eligible to perform as a prime contractor on those programs and would be restricted to a minority ownership interest and a maximum of 49% of the work as a subcontractor on such programs. An increase in the amount of procurements under the set-aside program may affect our ability to bid on new procurements as a prime contractor, or restrict our eligibility to compete on incumbent work that is set aside for small businesses. Security Threats: Our business could be negatively impacted by cyber security threats, attacks and other disruptions. Like others in our industry, we continue to face advanced and persistent attacks on our information infrastructure where we manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive/confidential data relating to our operations. These attacks may include sophisticated malware (viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs) and phishing emails that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities. These intrusions sometimes may be zero-day malware that are difficult to identify because they are not included in the signature set of commercially available antivirus scanning programs. Experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of our customers or other third-parties, create system disruptions, or cause shutdowns. Additionally, sophisticated software and applications that we produce or procure from third-parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including “bugs” and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the information infrastructure. We are subject to laws, rules, and regulations relating to the collection, use, and security of user data and are subject us to legislative and regulatory burdens that may require us to notify customers or employees of a data security breach. Persistent information infrastructure and cyber security threats require significant management attention and resources and may expose sensitive personally identifiable and other critical information of our customers, their employees or our own employees, and other parties with whom we conduct business and a loss or misuse of this information, could result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation, or otherwise harm our business. Any remedial costs or other liabilities related to cyber or other security threats may not be fully insured or indemnified by other means. The costs to us to eliminate or address the foregoing security problems and security vulnerabilities before or after a cyber-attack could be significant. Our remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, or cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers and may impede critical functions. Occurrence of any of these security threats could adversely affect our reputation, ability to work on sensitive U.S. Government contracts, business operations and financial results. Given the nature of our work for the federal government, SRA has been subject to attempted cyber security incidents during the reporting period, none of which have been successful or material. 14 System Failures or Product Defects: If the systems that we install fail or have significant delays or errors, or products or services we supply have defects, we may be liable, which could adversely affect our results of operations and harm our reputation. Many of the systems we develop, install, and maintain involve managing and protecting information used in intelligence, national security, and other sensitive or classified government functions. Some of our contracts provide critical products and services related to aviation, other transportation systems, space communications and other important civil and government functions having potential for significant economic or personal liabilities. Damage to our reputation or limitations on our eligibility for additional work resulting from a security breach in one of these systems or other failure could materially reduce our revenue. If our solutions, services, products or other applications have defects or errors, are subject to delivery delays or fail to meet our customers’ expectations, we may: ·Loss of revenues due to adverse customer reaction; ·Be required to provide additional services to a customer at no charge or pay re-procurement costs; ·Receive negative publicity that could damage our reputation and adversely affect our ability to attract or retain customers; ·Suffer claims for substantial damages against us; and ·Face material claims for damage to personal property and injuries including loss of life. In addition to any costs resulting from product warranties, contract performance or required corrective action, these failures may result in increased costs or loss of revenues if they result in customers postponing subsequently scheduled work, canceling contracts or failing to renew contracts. We may have agreed to indemnify our customers fully for damages and third party claims, we may have failed to obtain adequate contractual limitations of liability, and we may be found liable for material direct, indirect, consequential, or punitive damages. Internal or External System or Service Failures: Internal or external system or service failures could disrupt our business and impair our ability to effectively provide our services and products to our customers. A system or service disruption, including those caused by ongoing efforts to improve our information technology systems and the delivery of services whether through us or through an outsourced service, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Customer system failures could damage our reputation and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Many of the systems and networks that we develop, install and maintain for our customers involve managing and protecting personal information and information relating to national security and other sensitive government information. While we have programs designed to comply with relevant privacy and security laws and restrictions, if a system or network that we develop, install or maintain were to fail or experience a security breach or service interruption, whether caused by us, third-party service providers, cyber security threats or other events, we may experience loss of revenue, remediation costs or face claims for damages or contract termination. Any such event could cause serious harm to our reputation and prevent us from having access to or being eligible for further work on such systems and networks. Compliance with Laws and Regulations: Our failure to comply with complex laws and regulations could cause us to lose business and subject us to a variety of penalties. We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration, and performance of government contracts, which affect how we do business with our government clients and may impose added costs on our business. These laws and regulations are related to, for example, procurement integrity, disclosure of cost and pricing data, allowability of costs, national security, and employment practices. Failure to comply with any of these regulations could result in civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, harm to our reputation, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with the federal government. Among the most significant of these regulations are: · the FAR and supplements, which regulate the formation, administration and performance of U.S. government contracts; · the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of cost and pricing data in connection with certain contract negotiations; 15 · the Procurement Integrity Act, which regulates access to competitor bid and proposal information and government source selection information, and our ability to provide compensation to certain former government officials; · the False Claims Act, which provides for substantial civil and criminal penalties for violations, including for submission of a false or fraudulent claim to the U.S. government for payment or approval; and · U.S. government Cost Accounting Standards, which impose accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based U.S. government contracts, including allowable amounts for executive compensation reimbursement. Our employees might engage in misconduct or other improper activities, which could harm our business. Misconduct by employees could include intentional failures to comply with federal government procurement regulations, engaging in unauthorized activities, seeking reimbursement for improper expenses or falsifying time records. Employee misconduct could also involve the improper use of our clients’ sensitive or classified information, which could result in regulatory sanctions against us and serious harm to our reputation. The precautions we take to prevent and detect employee misconduct may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses, which could harm our business. Penalties and Sanctions from Government Audits: Unfavorable government audit results could force us to adjust previously reported operating results and could subject us to a variety of penalties and sanctions. As a government contractor, we are subject to routine audits and investigations by U.S. government agencies such as the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA), the Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA) and the Inspectors General for various agencies with which we contract in the ordinary course of business. These agencies review, among other things, a contractor’s performance under its contracts, cost structure, pricing practices, and compliance with applicable contracting and procurement laws, regulations and standards, including U.S. government Cost Accounting Standards. They also review the adequacy of and a contractor’s compliance with its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor’s purchasing, property, estimating, cost accounting, labor, billing, compensation, other management information systems and indirect rates and pricing practices. A finding of significant control deficiencies in our system audits or other reviews may result in reduced billing rates to our U.S. government customers and withholding of payments on receivables until the control deficiencies are corrected and our remediations are accepted by DCMA, and could also impact the Company’s ability to receive future cost type contract awards. Our indirect cost audits by the DCAA have not been completed for fiscal 2007 and subsequent fiscal years. Any costs found to be improperly charged or allocated to a government contract or not properly supported with sufficient documentation will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already reimbursed. SRA maintains reserves based on historical experience for incurred cost audits pending completion. If an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, unilateral reductions of our fees, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with U.S. government agencies. We file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction, and various state and foreign jurisdictions with varying statutes of limitation. Periods for fiscal years ended after July 1, 2009 generally remain subject to examination by federal and state tax authorities. In foreign jurisdictions, tax years after 2008 may remain subject to examination by tax authorities. The Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, recently began its examination of our income tax return for fiscal 2011. Classified U.S. Government Contracts: We have contracts with the U.S. Government that are classified, which may limit investor insight into portions of our business. We derive a portion of our revenues from programs with the U.S. government that are subject to security restrictions (classified programs), which preclude the dissemination of information. We are limited in our ability to provide information about these programs, any risks or any disputes or claims relating to such programs. Contract Estimation and Performance Risk: If we fail to estimate costs accurately or we or our subcontractors or joint venture partners fail to effectively perform our contractual obligations, our reputation, our ability to obtain future business, and our revenue and operating results could suffer. Our contracts are typically awarded through a competitive bidding process. We may lose money on some contracts if, in the bidding process, we underestimate the resources we need to perform under the contract. If we fail to accurately estimate our costs or the time required to complete a contract, the profitability of our contracts may be adversely affected. Specifically, our fixed-priced contracts involve greater financial risk due to the potential for cost overruns. Failure to timely meet contractual requirements under fixed-price contracts or that contain a fixed price component may result in additional costs to satisfy obligations to our customers, reductions in profit, payment of damages or penalties, or termination of the contract. 16 We often rely significantly upon other companies, such as subcontractors or joint venture partners, to perform work we are obligated to deliver to our clients. Subcontractor costs represent approximately 30% of our total cost of services for fiscal 2013. If our subcontractors or joint venture partners fail to deliver their services or products on time, or violate government contracting policies, laws or regulations, our ability to complete our contracts may be adversely affected which may have a material and adverse impact on our revenue and profitability. If we are the prime contractor and our subcontractors fail to perform as agreed, we may be liable to our customers for penalties, lost profits and additional costs to satisfy our contractual obligations. If our joint venture partners fail in their obligations, the joint ventures may be unable to adequately perform and deliver the contracted services. We may then be required to make additional investments and provide additional services to ensure the performance and delivery of the contracted services. The penalties or payments for lost profits associated with our subcontractors or joint venture partners failing to perform may have a material and adverse effect on our profitability and could have a negative impact on our reputation and ability to procure other government contracts in the future. Increased Competition and Bid Protests: The current budget-constrained environment may make it more difficult to maintain our financial performance. We operate in highly competitive markets and our competitors may be larger with greater financial resources and technical staffs or smaller with more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities that are able to concentrate their resources in particular areas. Additionally, we also compete with the U.S. government’s own internal capabilities. Our success depends on our ability to develop services and products that address the changing needs of the customer and provide people and technology needed to deliver these services and products. Additionally, our ability to implement solutions for our customers incorporating new developments and improvements in technology are important to our success. Multi-award contracts require that we make sustained efforts to obtain task orders under the contract. The competitive bidding process entails substantial costs and managerial time to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us or may be split among competitors. Following award, we may encounter significant expenses, delays, contract modifications, or even loss of the contract if our competitors protest or challenge contracts that are awarded to us. Employee Hiring and Retention: If we fail to attract and retain qualified employees, we might not be able to staff recently awarded contracts and sustain our profit margins and revenue growth. As an advanced information technology and technical services company, our business is labor intensive, and, therefore, our ability to attract and retain highly qualified individuals who work well with our clients in a government environment is an important factor in determining our success. Some of our government contracts require us to employ individuals who have particular security clearances issued by the Department of Defense or other government agencies. These employees are in great demand and are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future. If we are unable to recruit and retain a sufficient number of these employees, our ability to staff recently awarded contracts and to maintain and grow our business could be limited. We are operating in a tight labor market for cleared personnel and, if it continues to tighten, we could be required to engage larger numbers of subcontractor personnel, which could cause our profit margins to suffer. Acquisition Risks: If we fail to manage acquisitions successfully, our revenue and operating results may be impaired. Part of our growth strategy may include pursuing acquisitions. Identification and valuation of acquisition targets and closing complicated transactions involve significant risks to our business. In pricing acquisitions, we may make overly optimistic assumptions of future business growth. Our due diligence reviews may not identify all of the material issues necessary to accurately estimate the cost and potential liabilities of a particular acquisition. We may encounter increased competition for acquisitions, which may increase the price of our acquisitions. Additionally, these transactions often require substantial management resources and may divert our attention away from day-to-day operations. Integrating acquired operations of the acquisitions we choose to complete is a significant challenge and there is no assurance that we will be able to manage the integrations successfully. Failure to retain key employees and successfully integrate acquired operations may adversely affect our cost structure thereby reducing our margins and return on investment. Acquisitions may involve incurrence of additional indebtedness which may constrain further growth and include restrictive financial covenants that, if not complied with, may lead to default. Acquisitions may also increase organizational conflicts of interest, impacting current business and limiting further growth. 17 In addition, we periodically divest businesses or contracts that are no longer part of our ongoing strategic plan. These divestitures may result in losses on the sale of the business. Additionally, as a part of a transaction, it is customary to agree to certain indemnification obligations related to the divestiture. The indemnification period generally expires one to two years after the transaction date; however fraud and tax indemnifications last longer. If claims or other costs are incurred related to the divestiture, our financial results may be adversely affected. Intellectual Property Risks: We have very limited ability to protect our intellectual property, which is important to our success. Our failure to adequately protect our proprietary information and intellectual property rights could adversely affect our competitive position. In conducting our business, we may infringe the rights of others. We rely principally on trade secrets to protect much of our intellectual property where patent protection is not feasible and/or copyright protection is not appropriate. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. Confidentiality agreements may be inadequate to deter or prevent misappropriation of our confidential information. In addition, we may be unable to detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property or otherwise take appropriate steps to enforce our rights. Failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. If we are unable to prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our copyrights, trademarks or other proprietary information, our competitive position could be adversely affected. Moreover, use of our trade secrets in performing contracts with the U.S. government can result in the government obtaining license rights in these trade secrets. We have a limited patent portfolio in the United States and Europe and in some cases our intellectual property rights may be limited to only the United States and certain other jurisdictions. In the course of conducting our business, we might inadvertently infringe the intellectual property rights of others, resulting in claims against us or our customers. Our contracts generally indemnify our customers for third-party claims for intellectual property infringement by the services and products we provide. The expense of defending these claims may adversely affect our financial results. Insurance Risks: Our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all of our significant risks or our insurers may deny coverage of material losses we incur, which could adversely affect our profitability and financial position. We attempt to obtain adequate insurance to cover many of our significant risks and liabilities. Not every risk or liability can be protected by insurance, and for insurable risks, the limits of coverage reasonably obtainable in the market may not be sufficient to cover all actual losses incurred. Securing more coverage may impact profitability. Because of the limitations in overall available coverage or our business decisions regarding the amount of coverage that we choose to secure, we may have to bear substantial costs for uninsured losses that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and liquidity. Litigation Risks: We are a defendant in pending litigation and may be subject to future litigation which may have a material and adverse impact on our profitability. We are subject to investigations, audits and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations with respect to our role as a contractor to agencies and departments of the U.S. government, state, local and foreign governments, and otherwise in connection with performing services in countries outside of the United States. Such matters can lead to criminal, civil or administrative proceedings, we could be faced with penalties, fines, repayments or compensatory damages or could lead to suspension or debarment from future U.S. government contracting. Adverse findings could also have a material adverse effect on us because of our reliance on government contracts. We are also involved in various claims and lawsuits arising in the normal conduct of our business including but not limited to various employment litigation matters and investigations or charges before administrative agencies. We can give no assurance that the outcome of any such matter would not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We are not able to predict the ultimate outcome of these disputes or the actual impact of these matters on our profitability. If we agree to settle these matters or judgments are secured against us, we may incur charges which may have a material and adverse impact on our financial position, liquidity and earnings. Impairment of Assets: Changes in future economic or business conditions could cause recorded goodwill or other intangible assets to become impaired, resulting in material losses and write-downs that would reduce our operating income and financial position. Goodwill and other intangible assets account for approximately 80% of our recorded total assets. Goodwill is allocated to each of our business groups and each group is evaluated separately for impairment annually as of April 1, or more frequently when evidence of potential impairment exists. Trade names are also tested for impairment annually as of April 1, or more frequently when evidence of potential impairment exists. The annual impairment tests are based on many inputs requiring judgment. Given the current industry conditions and the uncertainties regarding the impact on our business, there can be no assurance that the estimates and assumptions used in our goodwill and trade names impairment analyses will prove to be accurate predictions of the future. If our assumptions regarding forecasted revenue or profitability are not achieved, or we experience adverse changes in market factors such as discount rates or valuation multiplies derived from comparable publicly traded companies, we may be required to recognize goodwill or trade names impairment charges in future periods. 18 In connection with its annual impairment test conducted during the quarter ended June 30, 2013, the Company recorded a $345.8 million non-cash impairment charge, of which $293.9 million relates to goodwill and $51.9 million relates to trade names. The impairment charge reduces goodwill and trade names by approximately 25%. The impairment is the result of lower industry valuation multiples as well as competitive pressures, contract award and funding delays, and uncertainty regarding U.S. federal government budgets. For further discussion of the impairment, refer to Note 3 of our consolidated financial statements as of and for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2013 included in this annual report on Form 10-K. Risks Related to our Indebtedness Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and operating flexibility. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of June 30, 2013, we had approximately $1,115.0 million of senior indebtedness comprised of $715.0 million on our senior secured Term Loan B Facility and $400.0 million of the Notes. In addition, we have available approximately $100.0 million of additional borrowing capacity under a five-year senior secured revolving credit facility, or the Revolver. Together the Revolver and the Term Loan B Facility are our “Senior Secured Credit Facilities.” Our substantial level of indebtedness and other financial obligations increase the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on, or other amounts due, in respect of our indebtedness. Our substantial debt could also have other significant consequences. For example, it could: ·increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic, competitive and industry conditions; ·limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes on satisfactory terms, or at all; ·require us to utilize a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of our indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available to us for operations and any future business opportunities; ·expose us to the risk of increased interest rates on the un-hedged portion of our Senior Secured Credit Facility borrowings, which are at variable rates of interest; ·restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or cause us to make non-strategic divestitures; ·limit our planning flexibility for, or ability to react to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate; ·limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions, react to competitive pressures and adverse changes in government regulation; ·limit our ability or increase the costs to refinance indebtedness; ·limit our ability to enter into hedging transactions by reducing the number of counterparties with whom we can enter into such transactions, as well as the volume of those transactions; and ·place us at a competitive disadvantage with competitors who may have less indebtedness and other obligations or greater access to financing. If we fail to make any required payment under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities or to comply with any of the covenants included therein, we will be in default. Lenders under such facilities could accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness and foreclose upon our assets securing such indebtedness. Other creditors might then accelerate other indebtedness. If any of our creditors accelerate the maturity of their indebtedness, we may not have sufficient assets to satisfy our obligations under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities or our other indebtedness, including the Notes. 19 Our ability to generate the significant amount of cash needed to pay interest and principal on the Notes and service our other debt and financial obligations and our ability to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and refinance our debt, including the Notes, amounts borrowed under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities and other financial obligations, and to fund our operations depends on our ability to generate substantial operating cash flow. Our cash flow generation depends on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If we cannot service our debt, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital investments, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt and/or seeking additional equity capital. Any of these potential remedies may not be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or otherwise be available. In addition, the indenture governing the Notes and the credit agreement governing our Senior Secured Credit Facilities may limit the availability or effectiveness of certain remedies, including the use of proceeds from divested assets. In the absence of sufficient operating results and/or limitations on remedies available to us, we could face substantial liquidity problems. The right to receive payments on the Notes is junior to that of lenders who have a security interest in our assets. The indenture governing the Notes permits us to incur certain secured indebtedness, including indebtedness under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities. Our obligations under the Notes and our guarantors’ obligations under their guarantees of the Notes are unsecured, but our obligations under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities and each guarantor’s obligations under their respective guarantees of the Senior Secured Credit Facilities are secured by a security interest in substantially all of our and our guarantors’ assets, including pledges of all or a portion of the capital stock of our and our guarantors’ subsidiaries. If we are declared bankrupt or insolvent, or if we default under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities, the lenders could declare all of the funds borrowed thereunder, together with any accrued and unpaid interest, immediately due and payable. If we are unable to repay such indebtedness, the lenders could foreclose on or otherwise enforce the pledged assets to the exclusion of holders of the Notes and the guarantees on the Notes, even if an event of default exists under the indenture at such time. Furthermore, if the lenders foreclose on and sell or otherwise enforce the pledged equity interests in any guarantor, then such guarantor will be released from its guarantee of the Notes automatically upon such sale if the guarantor is no longer a subsidiary of ours, provided that such sale is made in compliance with the provisions of the indenture. We and our subsidiaries may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, including indebtedness incurred in connection with future acquisition or combination transactions. Although the indenture governing the Notes and our Senior Secured Credit Facilities contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. Any additional secured borrowings would effectively be senior to the Notes and the related guarantees to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness. Moreover, the indenture governing the Notes does not impose limitation on our incurrence of liabilities that are not considered “Indebtedness” under the indenture. If we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our increased leverage, including our possible inability to service our debt, would increase. In any such event, because the Notes and the guarantees of the Notes are not secured by any of our or our guarantors’ assets, it is possible that there would be no assets remaining from which claims of the holders of Notes could be satisfied or, if any assets remained, that they would be insufficient to satisfy such claims fully. We may not be able to raise the money necessary to finance the change of control offer required by the indenture. Upon the occurrence of a change of control as defined in the indenture governing the Notes, we will be required to offer to repurchase all outstanding Notes at 101% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of repurchase. However, it is possible that we will not have sufficient funds at the time of the change of control to make the required repurchase of the Notes and we may be required to secure third-party financing to do so. We may not be able to obtain this financing on commercially reasonable terms, or on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Further, we may be contractually restricted under the terms of our Senior Secured Credit Facilities from repurchasing all of the Notes tendered by holders of the Notes upon a change of control. Accordingly, we may not be able to satisfy our obligations to purchase the Notes unless we are able to refinance or obtain waivers under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities. Our failure to repurchase the Notes upon a change of control would cause a default under the indenture that governs the Notes and a cross-default under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities. If any change of control occurs, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient funds to satisfy all of our debt obligations. 20 The change of control provisions in the indenture that govern the Notes may not protect holders of the Notes in the event we consummate a highly leveraged transaction, reorganization, restructuring, merger or other similar transaction, unless such transaction constitutes a change of control under the indenture that governs the Notes. Such a transaction may not involve a change in voting power or beneficial ownership or, even if it does, may not involve a change in the magnitude required under the definition of change of control in the indenture that governs the Notes to trigger our obligation to repurchase the Notes. Except as otherwise described above, the indenture that governs the Notes does not contain provisions that permit the holders of the Notes to require us to repurchase or redeem the Notes in the event of a takeover, recapitalization or similar transaction. If an event occurs that does not constitute a “Change of Control” as defined in the indenture that governs the Notes, we will not be required to make an offer to repurchase the Notes and holders may be required to continue to hold Notes despite the event. The interests of our indirect parent, Sterling Holdco, and its controlling stockholders may differ from the interests of the holders of our debt. The interests of our indirect parent, Sterling Holdco, and/or its controlling stockholders, the PEP Funds, may differ from the holders of our debt in material respects. For example, if we encounter financial difficulties or are unable to pay our debts as they mature, the interests of Sterling Holdco and/or its controlling stockholders might conflict with the interests as a debt holder. The PEP Funds and their respective affiliates may also have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, combinations, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investments, even though such transactions might involve risks to you as a debt holder. Additionally, the indenture governing the Notes permits us to pay advisory fees, dividends or make other restricted payments under certain circumstances, and the controlling stockholders may have an interest in our doing so. The PEP Funds and their respective affiliates are in the business of making investments in companies, and may from time to time in the future, acquire interests in businesses that directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of our business or are suppliers or customers of ours. You should consider that the interests of these holders may differ from the holders of our debt in material respects. In addition, to the extent that the PEP Funds or their affiliates own or acquire a material or substantial interest in one or more companies that provide services or products to the U.S. government, our affiliation with any such company through the PEP Funds could create organizational conflicts of interest and similar issues for us under federal procurement laws and regulations. The Notes are registered but since there is no public market for the Notes, you may not be able to resell your Notes. The Notes are registered under the Securities Act, but constitute a new issue of securities with no established trading market, and we have not listed the Notes on any securities exchange or included them in any automated quotation system. There can be no assurance as to the liquidity of any trading market that may develop; the ability of holders to sell the Notes; or the price at which the holders would be able to sell the Notes. Historically, the market for non-investment grade debt has been subject to disruptions that have caused substantial volatility in the prices of securities similar to the Notes. The market for the Notes, if any, may be subject to similar disruptions. Any such disruptions may adversely affect the value of the Notes. In addition, the Notes may trade at a discount from their initial offering price, depending upon prevailing interest rates, the market for similar notes and the interest of securities dealers in making a market in the Notes, our operating performance and financial condition, our prospects or the prospects for companies in our industry generally and other factors, including those described herein. The trading prices for the Notes are directly affected by many factors, including our credit rating. Credit rating agencies continually revise their ratings for companies they follow or discontinue rating companies, including us. Any ratings downgrade or decisions by a credit rating agency to discontinue rating us could adversely affect the trading price of the Notes, or the trading market for the Notes, to the extent a trading market for the Notes develops. The condition of the financial and credit markets and prevailing interest rates have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future and any fluctuation may impact the trading price of the Notes. Restrictive covenants in the Senior Secured Credit Facilities and the indenture may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. Our Senior Secured Credit Facilities and the indenture governing the Notes contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long term best interests. These agreements governing our indebtedness include covenants restricting, among other things, our ability to: · incur additional indebtedness; · create liens; · engage in mergers or consolidations; 21 · sell or transfer assets, including capital stock of our subsidiaries; · pay dividends and distributions or repurchase our capital stock; · make investments, including acquisitions, loans, advances or guarantees; · prepay the Notes and certain subordinated indebtedness; · engage in certain transactions with affiliates; · create restrictions on the payment of dividends or other amounts to us from our restricted subsidiaries; and · amend material agreements governing the Notes and certain subordinated indebtedness. In addition, our revolving credit facility requires us to maintain a maximum net senior secured leverage ratio. A breach of any covenant contained in either our Senior Secured Credit Facilities or the indenture governing the Notes could result in a default under those agreements. If any such default occurs, the lenders under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities or the holders of the Notes, as the case may be, may elect (after the expiration of any applicable notice or grace periods) to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued and unpaid interest and other amounts payable thereunder, to be immediately due and payable. In addition, a default under the indenture governing the Notes would cause a default under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities, and the acceleration of debt under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities or the failure to pay that debt when due would cause a default under the indenture governing the Notes (assuming the amount of that debt is in excess of $25.0 million). The lenders under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities also have the right upon an event of default thereunder to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. Further, following an event of default under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities, the lenders under these facilities will have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that debt, which includes the available cash of our subsidiaries that guarantee the Senior Secured Credit Facilities. If the debt under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities or the Notes becomes due and payable, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full that debt or any other debt that may become due as a result of that acceleration. Notwithstanding the restrictions on our ability to pay dividends, redeem or purchase capital stock and make certain other restricted payments, the indenture governing the Notes allows us to make significant restricted payments in certain circumstances. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 