Item 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock is subject to risks and uncertainties. Investors should consider the following factors, in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before deciding whether to purchase our securities. Investment risks can be market-wide as well as unique to a specific industry or company. The market risks faced by an investor in our stock are similar to the uncertainties faced by investors in a broad range of industries. There are, however, some risks that apply more specifically to SRA based on our type of business. The following risks are listed without regard to the potential likelihood that any given risk may be realized. These risks include some, but not all risks, uncertainties, and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results or the expectations we describe in our forward-looking statements. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business operations and liquidity. Federal Government Contracting Risks and Client Concentration: Our largest customer, the U.S. federal government, accounts for the vast majority of our revenue and earnings. Inherent in the government contracting process are unique risks which may materially and adversely affect our business and profitability. Revenue from services provided as a prime contractor or subcontractor on engagements with federal government clients accounted for more than 90% of our revenue in each of the last three fiscal years. If a key federal government agency or department terminates their relationship with us for any reason, we may not be able to replace or supplement such lost revenue with other federal government agencies or other customers, and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. This customer relationship involves certain unique risks including: • We may face a reduction in federal government spending or changes in spending policies or budget priorities, for example, the possibility of reduced levels of government spending due to in-sourcing efforts aimed at improving the organic capabilities of the federal government. Other changes in spending levels and budget priorities may result from changes in U.S. Government leadership, the 11 Table of Contents number of and intensity of military conflicts, the growth of the federal budget deficit, increasing political pressure to reduce overall levels of government spending, disruptions in the U.S. Treasury bond markets, shifts in spending priorities as a result of competing demands for federal funds, including the impact of efforts to stimulate the U.S. economy, or other factors. Some of our major federal government customers have publicly stated their intentions to significantly reduce the use of private contractor services similar to those we provide. • The failure by Congress to pass the annual budget on a timely basis may delay funding we expect to receive from clients on work we are already performing and will likely result in any new initiatives being delayed, and potentially cancelled. • Federal government contracts generally are not fully funded at inception. These contracts typically span one or more base years and multiple option years. The government generally has the right to reduce or modify contracts or subcontracts, or decline to exercise an option to renew a multi-year contract. • We generally encounter intense competition to win federal government contracts. Increased competition in the industry may cause some of the services we provide to become “commoditized” and more competitively priced causing downward pressure on profit margins. • Many federal government contract award decisions are subject to protest by competitors, which may require the contracting federal agency or department to suspend our performance pending the outcome of the protest and may also result in a requirement to resubmit bids for the contract or in the termination, reduction, or modification of the awarded contract. • Federal government contracts generally allow the government to terminate a contract, with short notice, for convenience, as well as for default in the event we fail to meet contractual obligations. If a government client terminates one of our contracts for convenience, we may be able to recover our incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses, and profit on work completed prior to the termination. If one of our contracts is terminated for default, we would generally be entitled to payments for our work that has been accepted by the government. A termination for default could expose us to liability for the client’s costs of re-procurement, damage our reputation, and hurt our ability to compete for future contracts. Compliance with Laws and Regulations: Our failure to comply with complex laws and regulations could cause us to be found liable and subject us to a variety of penalties. We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration, and performance of government contracts, which affect how we do business with our government clients and may impose added costs on our business. These laws and regulations are related to procurement integrity, disclosure of cost and pricing data, allowability of costs, national security, and employment practices. Failure to comply with any of these regulations could result in civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, harm to our reputation, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with federal government. Among the most significant of these regulations are: • the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) and supplements, which regulate the formation, administration and performance of U.S. Government contracts; • the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of cost and pricing data in connection with certain contract negotiations; • the Civil False Claims Act, which provides for substantial civil penalties for violations, including for submission of a false or fraudulent claim to the U.S. Government for payment or approval; and • U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards, which impose accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based U.S. Government contracts. 12 Table of Contents Our employees might engage in misconduct or other improper activities, which could harm our business. Misconduct by employees could include intentional failures to comply with federal government procurement regulations, engaging in unauthorized activities, seeking reimbursement for improper expenses or falsifying time records. Employee misconduct could also involve the improper use of our clients’ sensitive or classified information, which could result in regulatory sanctions against us and serious harm to our reputation. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses, which could harm our business. Governmental Constraints: Our failure to consider the impact of organizational conflicts of interest or personal conflicts of interest could limit our business opportunities and have an adverse impact on our business. Government regulations on organizational conflicts of interest may limit our ability to compete for or perform certain contracts. The government could determine that an organizational conflict of interest or other conflict of interest, such as a personal conflict of interest exists. Even the appearance of a conflict may cause the government to determine we are unable to render impartial assistance or advice to the government; and therefore, we may be ineligible to compete for certain procurement or we must implement mitigation strategies that may be costly. The potential for limitations on future contracting associated with a perceived organizational conflict of interest could cause us to divest existing business in order to mitigate a perceived or actual conflict. We may be forced to divest an existing business in an effort to ensure that we are able to perform on other work at a time when market conditions are not favorable to a divestiture. Similarly, if we hire former government personnel, or engage with other contractors or consultants who may have had unequal access to information related to a particular procurement the government may determine that the conflict creates an unfair competitive advantage and we may be deemed ineligible for certain contracts. Penalties and Sanctions from Government Audits: Unfavorable government audit results could force us to adjust previously reported operating results and could subject us to a variety of penalties and sanctions. As a government contractor, we are subject to routine audits and investigations by U.S. government agencies such as the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA) and the Inspectors General for various agencies with which we contract. These agencies review a contractor’s performance under its contracts, cost structure, pricing practices, and compliance with applicable contracting and procurement laws, regulations and standards. The DCAA also reviews the adequacy of and a contractor’s compliance with its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor’s purchasing, property, estimating, cost accounting, labor, billing, compensation and management information systems. Our failure to obtain an “adequate” determination of any of our systems could adversely affect our business, including our ability to invoice and receive timely payments on contracts. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract or not properly supported with sufficient documentation will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already reimbursed. If an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with U.S. federal government agencies. In addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. All significant incurred cost submission audits by the DCAA have been completed through fiscal year 2006. We do not know the outcome of any ongoing or future audits or reviews and if future adjustments exceed our estimates, our profitability would be adversely affected. International Operations Risk: Our international operations are subject to a number of risks that could significantly reduce our profits and revenues or subject us to criminal and civil enforcement actions. Products and services provided to international entities and foreign governments accounted for less than 3% of our revenue in fiscal 2010. International business is subject to a variety of risks, including: • general economic, political and financial conditions in foreign markets; • political, social and economic upheavals resulting in war, civil unrest or acts of terrorism; 13 Table of Contents • greater risk of uncollectible receivables and longer collection cycles; • complex and changing local government laws, regulations and procurement policies and practices which may differ from U.S. government regulations including regulations relating to foreign taxes, employment, investments, exchange controls and repatriation of earnings; • foreign currency fluctuations; • the unavailability of certain protections that would typically be available under federal or common law; • exposure to civil or criminal liability under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, International Traffic in Arms Regulations, anti-boycott rules, trade and export control rules and other international regulations; and • exposure to risk associated with operating in or near warzones. Our international customers have been impacted by the global economic conditions and constraints in the credit market. In our contract research organization business, the global recession has decreased the availability of funding for the small and mid-sized pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies reducing the number of drugs and biological agents that are being taken through clinical trials or to market. Additionally, the financial constraints faced by our aviation customers in emerging markets have delayed the award of projects. Continued weakness or further deterioration of the global economy could adversely impact our results of operations. Our international operations may include providing services that require some of our employees to operate in countries experiencing political unrest, war or terrorism, including Afghanistan and Iraq. As a result, during the course of such deployments we are exposed to liabilities arising from accidents or incidents involving our employees or third parties. Any of these types of accidents or incidents could involve significant potential injury or other claims by employees and/or third parties. It is also possible that we will encounter unexpected costs in connection with additional risks inherent in sending our employees to dangerous locations, such as increased insurance costs, as well as the repatriation of our employees or executives for reasons beyond our control. Security Threats: Our business could be negatively impacted by security threats and other disruptions. Like others in our industry, we continue to face advanced and persistent attacks on our information infrastructure. These may include sophisticated malware introduced through, amongst other methods, so-called phishing emails. When activated, typically by an unknowing recipient, these malware may attempt to surreptitiously capture data input or run malicious software enabling, for example, remote control and possible data exfiltration. These intrusions sometimes may be zero-day malware that are difficult to identify because they are not included in the signature set of commercially available antivirus scanning programs. Persistent information infrastructure threats require significant management attention and resources, and potentially can disrupt our business and may expose sensitive personally identifiable and other critical information of our customers, their employees or our own employees, and other parties with whom we conduct business. Any failure to comply with our network security and data privacy legal and contractual obligations may result in legal actions, contract terminations and payment of damages to impacted parties, require increased expenditures for information infrastructure security and monitoring, and damage our reputation among our customers and the public, possibly resulting in a material increase in our costs and/or reduction in our revenues. With our active cooperation, the U.S. Department of Defense Inspector General and its agencies have been reviewing our policies and procedures and infrastructure architecture, providing technical support and assistance, and reviewing current and past compliance with information security-related contractual obligations. Upon receipt of their final report and depending upon its conclusions, they may demand the reduction of certain contract prices, changes in our current processes and increased expenditures for information infrastructure security. 14 Table of Contents Systems and Service Failures and Product Defects: If the systems that we install fail or have significant delays or errors, or products or services we supply have defects, we may be liable, which could adversely affect our results of operations and harm our reputation. Many of the systems we develop, install, and maintain involve managing and protecting information used in intelligence, national security, and other sensitive or classified government functions. Some of our contracts provide critical products and services related to aviation, other transportation systems, space communications and other important civil and government functions having potential for significant economic or personal liabilities. Damage to our reputation or limitations on our eligibility for additional work resulting from a security breach in one of these systems, or other failure could materially reduce our revenue. If our solutions, services, products or other applications have defects or errors, are subject to delivery delays or fail to meet our customers’ expectations, we may: • Lose revenues due to adverse customer reaction; • Be required to provide additional services to a customer at no charge; • Receive negative publicity that could damage our reputation and adversely affect our ability to attract or retain customers; • Suffer claims for substantial damages against us; and • Face material claims for damage to personal property and injuries including loss of life. In addition to any costs resulting from product warranties, contract performance or required corrective action, these failures may result in increased costs or loss of revenues if they result in customers postponing subsequently scheduled work, canceling contracts or failing to renew contracts. We may have agreed to indemnify our customers fully for damages and third party claims, we may have failed to obtain or have negotiated insufficient contractual limitations of liability, and we may be found liable for material direct, indirect, consequential, or punitive damages. Contract Estimation and Performance Risk: If we fail to estimate costs accurately and we or our subcontractors fail to effectively perform our contractual obligations, our reputation as a prime contractor, our ability to obtain future business, and our revenue and operating results could suffer. Our contracts are typically awarded through a competitive bidding process. We may lose money on some contracts if, in the bidding process, we underestimate the resources we need to perform under the contract. If we fail to accurately estimate our costs or the time required to complete a contract, the profitability of our contracts may be adversely affected. Specifically, our fixed-price contracts involve greater financial risk due to the potential for cost overruns. Failure to timely meet contractual requirements may result in additional costs to satisfy obligations to our customers, reductions in revenue, payment of damages or penalties, or termination of the contract. We often rely significantly upon other companies as subcontractors to perform work we are obligated to deliver to our clients. If our subcontractors fail to deliver their services or products on time, our ability to complete our contracts may be adversely affected which may have a material and adverse impact on our revenue and profitability. If we are the prime contractor and our subcontractors fail to perform as agreed, we may be liable to our customers for penalties, lost profits and additional costs to satisfy our contractual obligations. These penalties or payments for lost profits may have a material and adverse effect on our profitability and could have a negative impact on our reputation and ability to procure other government contracts in the future. Government Security Regulation Risks: Our business depends on obtaining and maintaining required employee and facility clearances. Many of our government contracts require our employees to maintain various levels of security clearances and we are required to maintain certain facility security clearances complying with the Department of Defense and Intelligence Community requirements. Security-related laws and regulations are complex, and we on several 15 Table of Contents occasions have voluntarily disclosed to the government our failure to fully comply with each technical requirement. To the extent we are not able to obtain facility clearances, engage employees with the required security clearances for a particular contract, or maintain connections to controlled government information systems, we may not be able to bid or win new contracts, or effectively recompete on expiring contracts. Employee Hiring and Retention: If we fail to attract and retain qualified employees, we might not be able to staff recently awarded engagements and sustain our profit margins and revenue growth. As an advanced information technology and technical services company, our business is labor intensive, and, therefore, our ability to attract and retain highly qualified individuals who work well with our clients in a government environment is an important factor in determining our success. Some of our government contracts require us to employ individuals who have particular security clearances issued by the Department of Defense or other government agencies. These employees are in great demand and are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future. If we are unable to recruit and retain a sufficient number of these employees, our ability to staff recently awarded engagements and to maintain and grow our business could be limited. We are operating in a tight labor market for cleared personnel and, if it continues to tighten, we could be required to engage larger numbers of subcontractor personnel, which could cause our profit margins to suffer. Acquisition Risks: If we fail to manage acquisitions successfully, our revenue and operating results may be impaired. Part of our growth strategy includes pursing acquisitions of small or large companies. Identification and valuation of acquisition targets and closing complicated transactions involve significant risks to our business. In pricing acquisitions, we may make overly optimistic assumptions of future business growth. Our due diligence reviews may not identify all of the material issues necessary to accurately estimate the cost and potential liabilities of a particular acquisition. Additionally, these transactions often require substantial management resources and may divert our attention away from day-to-day operations. Integrating acquired operations of the acquisitions we choose to complete is a significant challenge and there is no assurance that we will be able to manage the integrations successfully. Failure to successfully integrate acquired operations may adversely affect our cost structure thereby reducing our margins and return on investment. Acquisitions may involve incurrence of substantial indebtedness which may constrain further growth and include restrictive financial covenants that, if not complied with, may lead to default. Acquisitions may also increase organizational conflicts of interest, impacting current business and limiting further growth. In addition, we periodically divest businesses that are no longer part of our ongoing strategic plan. These divestitures may result in losses on disposal or continued financial involvement in the divested business for a period of time following the transaction. If claims or other costs are incurred following a divestiture our financial results may be adversely affected. Impairment of Assets: Goodwill and intangible assets represent a significant portion of our assets and any impairment of these assets could adversely impact our operating results. Goodwill and intangible assets account for almost half of our recorded total assets. We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually, or more frequently when evidence of potential impairment exists. Difficult market conditions and subsequently lower expected future cash flows resulted in a $60.0 million goodwill impairment in our Era business during fiscal 2010. A further decrease in expected cash flows or continued deterioration in market conditions could require us to record future impairment charges that could have a material impact on our operating results and financial position. 16 Table of Contents Intellectual Property Risks: We have only a limited ability to protect our intellectual property rights, which are important to our success. Our failure to adequately protect our proprietary information and intellectual property rights could adversely affect our competitive position. In conducting our business we may infringe the rights of others. We rely principally on trade secrets to protect much of our intellectual property where we do not believe that copyright or patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. Although our employees are subject to confidentiality obligations, this protection may be inadequate to deter or prevent misappropriation of our confidential information. In addition, we may be unable to detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property or otherwise take appropriate steps to enforce our rights. Failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. In addition, if we are unable to prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our copyrights, trademarks or other proprietary information, our competitive position could be adversely affected. We have a limited intellectual property portfolio and in some cases our intellectual property rights may be limited to only the United States and certain other jurisdictions. In the course of conducting our business, we may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, resulting in claims against us or our customers. Our contracts generally indemnify our customers for third-party claims for intellectual property infringement by the services and products we provide. The expense of defending these claims may adversely affect our financial results. Inadequate Insurance Coverage: Our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all of our significant risks or our insurers may deny coverage of material losses we incur, which could adversely affect our profitability and financial position. We attempt to obtain adequate insurance to cover many of our significant risks and liabilities. Not every risk or liability can be protected by insurance, and for insurable risks, the limits of coverage reasonably obtainable in the market may not be sufficient to cover all actual losses incurred. Securing more coverage may impact profitability. Because of the limitations in overall available coverage or our business decisions regarding the amount of coverage that we choose to secure, we may have to bear substantial costs for uninsured losses that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Concentration of Voting Power: Our chairman, whose interests may not be aligned with yours, controls our company, which could result in actions of which you or other stockholders do not approve. As of July 31, 2010, Ernst Volgenau, our chairman, beneficially owned shares of class A and class B common stock representing approximately 69% of the combined voting power of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Dr. Volgenau will be able to control the outcome of all matters that our stockholders vote upon, including the election of directors, amendments to our certificate of incorporation, and mergers, acquisitions, sales of substantially all of our assets or other business combinations. Dr. Volgenau’s voting control may have the effect of preventing or discouraging transactions involving actual or potential change of control that may be beneficial to our stockholders, regardless of whether a premium is offered over the then-current market price. Dr. Volgenau’s voting control could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock if investors perceive disadvantages in owning stock in a company with such concentrated ownership. Together these factors could prevent stockholders from receiving a premium over the market price of our common stock if a change in control were proposed. Anti-Takeover Provisions Make Changes in Control More Difficult: Provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit potential acquisition bids that you and other stockholders may consider favorable, and the market price of our class A common stock may be lower as a result. There are provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws that make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or attempt to acquire, control of our company, even if a change in control was considered favorable by you and other stockholders. For example, our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The Board of Directors can fix the price, rights, preferences, privileges, and 17 Table of Contents restrictions of the preferred stock without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The issuance of shares of preferred stock may delay or prevent a change in control transaction. As a result, the market price of our class A common stock and the voting and other rights of our stockholders may be adversely affected. This issuance of shares of preferred stock may result in the loss of voting control to other stockholders. Our charter documents contain other provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect, including: • the high-vote nature of our class B common stock; • stockholders cannot take actions by written consent; • stockholders cannot call a special meeting of stockholders; and • stockholders must give advance notice to nominate directors or submit proposals for consideration at stockholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which regulates corporate acquisitions. These provisions could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control transaction. They could also have the effect of discouraging others from making tender offers for our class A common stock. These provisions may also prevent changes in our management. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 