ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company and its business because such factors may have a significant effect on its operating results and financial condition. As a result of the risk factors set forth below and the information presented elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, actual results could differ materially from those included in any forward-looking statements. Adverse economic conditions in the food processing industry, either globally or regionally, may adversely affect the Company's revenues. The markets the Company serves, particularly the food processing industry, are experiencing variable economic conditions. The U.S. and European markets in the food processing industry are not growing and are experiencing 9 Table of Contents consolidation. Additionally, varying consumer demand, product supply, and plant capacity, most notably in the potato market, could result in reduced or deferred capital equipment purchases for the Company’s product lines. While the Company has reacted to these developments with applications directed to the growing fresh vegetable and fruit industries as well as the pharmaceutical and nutraceutical industries, loss of business, particularly in the potato industry, would have a negative effect on the Company’s sales and net earnings. Competition and advances in technology may adversely affect sales and prices. The markets for the Company’s products are highly competitive. Advances in technology may remove some barriers to market entry, enabling additional competitors to enter the Company’s markets. Such additional competition could force the Company to reduce prices to remain competitive, and decrease the Company’s profits, having a material adverse affect on the Company’s business and financial condition. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue to compete effectively in the future. The Company’s new products may not compete successfully in either existing or new markets. The future success and growth of the Company is dependent upon its ability to develop, market, and sell products and services in certain food processing markets as well as to introduce new products into other existing and potential markets. There can be no assurance the Company can successfully penetrate these potential markets or expand into new international markets with its current or new products. The limited availability and possible cost fluctuations of materials used in the Company's products could adversely affect the Company's business. Certain of the components, subassemblies and materials for the Company’s products are obtained from single sources or a limited group of suppliers. Although the Company seeks to reduce dependence on sole or limited source suppliers, the partial or complete loss of certain of these sources could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and customer relationships. In addition, certain basic materials, such as stainless steel, are used extensively in the Company’s product fabrication processes. Such basic materials may also be subject to worldwide shortages or price fluctuations related to the supply of or demand for raw materials, such as nickel, which are used in their production by the Company’s suppliers. A significant increase in the price or decrease in the availability of one or more of these components, subassemblies or basic materials could also adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The high price of stainless steel worldwide in fiscal 2006 and 2007 resulted in higher component costs and reduced margins on certain product lines. The inability to protect its intellectual property, especially as the Company expands geographically, may adversely affect the Company's competitive advantage. The Company’s competitive position may be affected by its ability to protect its proprietary technology. The Company has obtained certain patents and has filed a number of patent applications. The Company also anticipates filing applications for protection of its future products and technology. There can be no assurance that any such patents will provide meaningful protection for the Company’s product innovations, or that the issuance of a patent will give the Company any material advantage over its competition in connection with any of its products. The Company may experience additional intellectual property risks in international markets where it may lack patent protection. The patent laws of other countries, such as China, may differ from those of the U.S. as to the patentability of the Company’s products and processes. Moreover, the degree of protection afforded by foreign patents may be different from that of U.S. patents. Intellectual property-related litigation expenses and other costs resulting from infringement claims asserted against the Company by third parties may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and its customer relations. The technologies used by the Company may infringe the patents or proprietary technology of others. In the past, the Company has been required to initiate litigation to protect its patents. The cost of enforcing the Company’s patent rights in lawsuits that it may bring against infringers or of defending itself against infringement charges by 10 Table of Contents other patent holders or other third parties, including customers, may be high and could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and its customer relations. ITEM 