Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related To Our Industry Reduction in Federal Government Spending or Changes in Spending Policies or Budget Priorities: Changes in the spending policies or budget priorities of the federal government could cause us to lose revenue. Revenue from contracts with federal government agencies was 92% of our total revenue for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, 95% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 and 99% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007. Accordingly, changes in federal government fiscal or spending policies could directly affect our financial performance. Among the factors that could harm our federal government contracting business are: • the curtailment of the federal government’s use of service contractors, including new legislation, procurement regulations, or deference to certain union preferences that cause federal agencies to adopt restrictive procurement practices regarding the use of outside information technology providers; • a significant decline in spending by the federal government in general, or by specific departments or agencies in particular; • a reduction in spending or shift of expenditures from existing programs to pay for an international conflict, to pay for the economic stimulus, the national healthcare initiative, or other federal priorities; • changes in policy and goals by the government providing set aside funds to small businesses, disadvantaged businesses, and other socio-economic requirements in the allocation of contracts; and • general economic and political conditions. These or other factors could cause federal government agencies and departments to reduce their purchases under contracts, to exercise their right to terminate contracts, or not to exercise options to renew contracts, any of which could cause us to lose revenue. The threat of reduced levels of outsourcing through “insourcing” efforts aimed at improving the organic capabilities of the U.S. federal government, as proposed in recent Defense Department communications and budget documents, could be of particular concern for our business and our industry. We do not yet know which government customers or types of services are likely to be affected by any such reductions. We have substantial contracts in place with many federal departments and agencies, and our continued performance under these contracts, or award of additional contracts from these agencies, could be materially harmed by federal government spending reductions or budget cutbacks at these departments or agencies. Failure by Congress to Approve Budgets Timely: The failure by Congress to approve budgets on a timely basis for the federal agencies we support could delay or reduce spending and cause us to lose revenue. On an annual basis, Congress must approve budgets that govern spending by each of the federal agencies we support. When Congress is unable to agree on budget priorities and is unable to pass the annual budget on a timely basis, Congress typically enacts a continuing resolution. A continuing resolution allows government agencies to operate at spending levels approved in the previous budget cycle. When government agencies must operate under a continuing resolution, it may delay funding we expect to receive from clients on work we are already performing and will likely result in any new initiatives being delayed, and potentially cancelled. 14 Table of Contents Failure of Our Clients to Comply with Office of Management and Budget Requirements: The Office of Management and Budget process for ensuring government agencies properly support capital planning initiatives, including information technology investments, could reduce or delay federal information technology spending and cause us to lose revenue. The Office of Management and Budget, or OMB, supervises spending by federal agencies, including enforcement of the Government Performance Results Act. This Act requires, among other things, that federal agencies make an adequate business justification to support capital planning initiatives, including all information technology investments. The factors considered by the OMB include, among others, whether the proposed information technology investment is expected to achieve an appropriate return on investment, whether related processes are contemporaneously reviewed, whether inter-operability with existing systems and the capacity for these systems to share data across government has been considered, and whether existing off-the-shelf products are being utilized to the extent possible. If our clients do not adequately justify proposed information technology investments to the OMB, the OMB may refuse funding for their new or continuing information technology investments, and we may lose revenue as a result. Security Threats: U.S. government contractors could be negatively impacted by security threats and other disruptions. As a U.S. government contractor, we and other companies in our industry face an increasingly sophisticated array of highly capable and persistent global security threats to information infrastructures. Similar to public reports involving other companies in our industry and as we have previously disclosed in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, a sophisticated virus believed not to be addressed fully by our system’s commercial antivirus software was identified earlier in the year on the Company’s computer network. Our experts have identified several virus variants and are implementing mitigation and remedial actions. Despite these efforts, we have subsequently discovered and remedied further network infections, and we expect these attacks to continue. The Company has been working closely with law enforcement and other officials who are investigating the source of the attacks. These types of threats require significant management attention and resources, and potentially can disrupt our business, expose sensitive personally identifiable and other information of customers, their employees or our own employees, result in legal actions, contract terminations and payment of damages to impacted parties, require increased expenditures for network security and monitoring, and damage our reputation among our customers and the public. The laws and contractual requirements addressing network security and data privacy are varied and complex and constantly evolving; we face significant challenges ensuring our continued compliance, and failure to comply may constitute a breach of our contractual obligations and/or cause an interruption of contract performance for an indefinite period. Damage to our reputation or limitations on our eligibility for additional work resulting from a security breach in one of the systems we develop, install and maintain could materially reduce our revenue. See risk factor entitled Security Threats under Risks Related to our Business. Unfavorable Contract Provisions and Laws on Federal Government Contracts: Federal government contracts and related laws and regulations give government clients a variety of rights that are unfavorable to us, including the ability to terminate a contract at any time for convenience. Federal government contracts contain provisions and are subject to laws and regulations that provide government clients with rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts. These rights and remedies and related laws and regulations allow government clients, among other things, to: • terminate existing contracts, with short notice, for convenience, as well as for default in the event we fail to meet contractual obligations; • reduce or modify contracts or subcontracts, or decline to exercise an option to renew a multi-year contract; • terminate our facility security clearances and thereby prevent us from receiving classified contracts; 15 Table of Contents • claim rights in products, systems, and technology produced by us; • prohibit future procurement awards with a particular agency due to a finding of organizational conflict of interest based upon prior related work performed for the agency that may give us an unfair advantage over competing contractors; • subject the award of contracts to protest by competitors, which may require the contracting federal agency or department to suspend our performance pending the outcome of the protest and may also result in a requirement to resubmit bids for the contract or in the termination, reduction, or modification of the awarded contract; and • suspend or debar us from doing business with the federal government or with a particular government agency. If a government client terminates one of our contracts for convenience, we may recover only our incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses, and profit on work completed prior to the termination. If a federal government client were to terminate unexpectedly, cancel, or decline to exercise an option to renew with respect to one or more of our significant contracts or suspend or debar us from doing business with government agencies, our revenue and operating results would be materially harmed. Compliance with Laws and Regulations: Our failure to comply with complex laws and regulations could cause us to lose business and subject us to a variety of penalties. We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration, and performance of government contracts, which affect how we do business with our government clients and may impose added costs on our business. Among the most significant laws and regulations are: • the Federal Acquisition Regulation, and agency regulations analogous or supplemental to the Federal Acquisition Regulation, which comprehensively regulate the formation, administration, and performance of government contracts, including provisions relating to the avoidance of conflicts of interest and intra-organizational conflicts of interest; • the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with some contract negotiations; • the Procurement Integrity Act, which requires evaluation of ethical conflicts surrounding procurement activity and establishing certain employment restrictions for individuals who participate in the procurement process; • the Cost Accounting Standards, which impose accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under some cost-based government contracts; • the mandatory disclosure rule (FAR 52.203.13) which requires contractors to timely disclose, in writing, to the Office of Inspector General with a copy to the government contracting officer, whenever in connection with the award, performance, or closeout of the contract or any relevant subcontract that the Contractor has credible evidence that a principal, employee, agent or subcontractor of the Contractor has committed a violation of federal criminal law involving, for example, fraud, conflict of interest, bribery, gratuity violations, or other violations found in Title 18 of United States Code, a violation of the civil False Claims Act (31 USC 3729-3722), or certain significant overpayments. Penalties for noncompliance are retrospective and prospective and include suspension and debarment. • laws, regulations, and executive orders restricting the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the importation and exportation of specified products, technologies, and technical data; • laws surrounding lobbying activities a corporation may engage in and operation of a Political Action Committee established to support corporate interests; and • compliance with antitrust laws. 16 Table of Contents Our employees might engage in misconduct or other improper activities, which could harm our business. We are exposed to the risk that employee fraud or other misconduct could occur. Misconduct by employees could include intentional failures to comply with federal government procurement regulations, engaging in unauthorized activities, seeking reimbursement for improper expenses or falsifying time records. Employee misconduct could also involve the improper use of our clients’ sensitive or classified information, which could result in regulatory sanctions against us and serious harm to our reputation. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses, which could harm our business. If a government review or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, harm to our reputation, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with federal government agencies. The government may in the future reform its procurement practices or adopt new contracting rules and regulations, including cost accounting standards, that could be costly to satisfy or that could impair our ability to obtain new contracts. Any failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in contract termination, price or fee reductions, or suspension or debarment from contracting with the federal government, each of which could lead to a material reduction in our revenue. Risks Related To Our Business Customer Concentration: We depend on contracts with U.S. federal government agencies for the majority of our revenue, and if our relationships with these agencies were harmed, our business would be threatened. Revenue from contracts with federal government agencies was 92% of our total revenue for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, 95% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 and 99% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007. Revenue from contracts with clients in the Department of Defense and the National Guard accounted for approximately 39% of our revenue for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. For this reason, any issue that compromises our relationship with agencies of the federal government in general, or within the Department of Defense and the National Guard in particular, would cause serious harm to our business. Among the key factors in maintaining our relationships with federal government agencies and departments is our performance on individual contracts and delivery orders, the strength of our professional reputation, and the experience of our senior management. Additionally, to the extent that our performance does not meet client expectations, or our reputation with one or more key clients is impaired, our revenue and operating results could be materially harmed. Intense Competition: We face intense competition from many competitors that have greater resources than we do, which could result in price reductions, reduced profitability, and loss of market share. Additionally, if subcontractors on our prime contracts are able to secure positions as prime contracts, we may lose revenue. We operate in highly competitive markets and generally encounter intense competition to win contracts. If we are unable to successfully compete for new business or win recompetitions of existing business, our revenue growth and operating margins may decline. Many of our competitors are larger and have greater financial, technical, marketing, and public relations resources, larger client bases, and greater brand or name recognition than we do. Our competitors include federal systems integrators such as Computer Sciences Corporation and Science Applications International Corporation, CACI International Inc., ManTech International Corporation, NCI, Inc., Unisys Corporation, as well as divisions of larger defense contractors such as General Dynamics Corporation, Lockheed Martin Corporation, L-3 Communications, Northrop Grumman Corporation, and consulting firms such as Accenture Ltd., Booz Allen Hamilton and International Business Machines. Our larger competitors may be able to compete more effectively for very large-scale government contracts. Our larger competitors also may be able to provide clients with different or greater capabilities or benefits than we can provide in areas such as technical qualifications, past performance on large-scale contracts, geographic presence, the ability to provide a broader range of services without creating conflicts of interest or intra-organizational conflicts of interest, price, and the availability of key professional personnel. Our competitors also have 17 Table of Contents established or may establish relationships among themselves or with third parties, including through mergers and acquisitions, to increase their ability to address client needs. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge. Increased competition for services may cause some of the services we provide to become “commoditized” and more competitively priced causing downward pressure on profit margins. If subcontractors on our prime contracts are able to secure positions as prime contractors, we may lose revenue. For each of the past several years, we have received substantial revenue from government clients relating to work performed by other information technology providers acting as subcontractors to us. In some cases, companies that have not held GSA schedule contracts or secured positions as prime contractors on GWACs have approached us in our capacity as a prime contractor, seeking to perform services as our subcontractor for a government client. Some of these providers that are currently acting as subcontractors to us may in the future secure positions as prime contractors. If one or more of our current subcontractors are awarded prime contractor status in the future, it could reduce or eliminate our revenue for the work they were performing as subcontractors to us. Revenue derived from work performed by our subcontractors represented approximately 26%, 25%, and 29% of our revenue for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. Contract Estimation Risk: We derive significant revenue from contracts awarded through a competitive bidding process, which can impose substantial costs upon us, and we will lose profits if we fail to compete and fail to estimate costs and revenue effectively. We derive significant revenue from federal government contracts that are awarded through a competitive bidding process. We expect that most of the government business we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through competitive bidding. We may lose money on some contracts if, in the bidding process, we underestimate the resources we need to perform under the contract. We provide services to the federal government under three types of contracts: cost-plus-fee, time-and-materials, and fixed-price. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, we derived 35%, 43%, and 22% of our revenue from cost-plus-fee, time-and-materials, and fixed-price contracts, respectively. Each of these types of contracts, to differing degrees, involves the risk that we could underestimate or overestimate our cost of fulfilling the contract and negatively affect the amount we bid on a contract, which may reduce the profit we earn, lead to a financial loss on a contract, or cause us to lose a contract bid. For all three contract types, we bear varying degrees of risk associated with the assumptions we use to formulate our pricing for the work. To the extent our working assumptions prove inaccurate, we may lose money on the contract, which would adversely affect our operating results. These estimation and competitive bidding risks include the following: • under cost-plus-fee contracts which are subject to a ceiling amount, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance-based. However, if our costs exceed the ceiling or are not allowable under the terms of the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to recover those costs; • under time-and-materials contracts, we are reimbursed for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates along with the cost of certain expenses, and we assume the risk that our costs of performance may exceed the negotiated hourly rates; • under fixed-price contracts, we perform specific tasks for a fixed price. Compared to cost-plus-fee contracts and time-and-materials contracts, fixed-price contracts involve greater financial risk due to the potential for cost overruns. To the extent our actual costs exceed the estimates upon which the price was negotiated, we will generate less than the anticipated amount of profit or could incur a loss; • the need to bid on engagements in advance of knowing the complete design or full requirements, which may result in unforeseen difficulties in executing the engagement and cost overruns; • the possibility that difficult market conditions will cause our competitors to strive for growth by reducing their bid pricing and compel us to choose between bidding at less profitable levels or losing contracts and foregoing revenue; and 18 Table of Contents • the expense and delay that may arise if our competitors protest or challenge contract awards made to us pursuant to competitive bidding, and the risk that any such protest or challenge could result in the resubmission of bids on modified specifications, or in termination, reduction, or modification of the awarded contract. To the extent we engage in competitive bidding and are unable to win particular contracts, we not only incur substantial costs in the bidding process that would negatively affect our operating results, but we may be precluded from operating in the market for services that are provided under those contracts for a number of years. Even if we win a particular contract through competitive bidding, our profit margins may be depressed as a result of the costs incurred through the bidding process and/or the actual resources and costs to perform the contract being higher than we initially estimate. GWACs and IDIQ Contracts are Critical: Loss of our General Services Administration, or GSA, schedule contracts or our position as a prime contractor on one or more of our government-wide acquisition contracts, or GWACs, or our other multiple-award contracts would impair our ability to win new business. We believe that one of the key elements of our success is our position as the holder of six GSA schedule contracts and as a prime contractor under three GWACs and more than 40 agency-specific indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity, or ID/IQ, contracts. For the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2008, and 2007, revenue from GSA schedule contracts, GWACs, and other ID/IQ contracts accounted for approximately 81%, 81%, and 77%, respectively, of our revenue from federal government clients. If we were to lose our position on one or more of these contracts, we could lose revenue and our operating results could suffer. The Department of Defense has issued guidance providing that procurements of services that are not performance-based or that are to be procured using a contract vehicle outside of the Department of Defense must be approved in advance. This could result in the Department of Defense limiting its future use of GWACs and GSA schedule contracts. Initiatives taken by the Department of Defense or other government agencies and departments, or the impact of the ongoing reorganization by the GSA, could cause services we provide on existing contracts to migrate to contract vehicles on which we are not a prime contractor. Should this occur, our ability to compete for business from these organizations in the future may be harmed. Performance Risk: If we or our subcontractors fail to perform contractual obligations, our reputation as a prime contractor, our ability to obtain future business, and our revenue and operating results could suffer. Our fixed price contracts may encounter difficulties that result in additional costs to us, reductions in revenues, claims, disputes and the payment of damages. Some of our fixed price contracts may require challenging development and integration of technologies and subsystems and completion of acceptance testing by contractually specified delivery dates. We may experience unforeseen technological difficulties and cost overruns that could cause us to lose money on these contracts. Failure to meet contractual requirements may result in additional costs to satisfy contract requirements, reductions in revenue, payment of damages or penalties, or termination of the contract. If we experience systems, service, or product failure, our reputation could be harmed and our clients could assert claims against us for damages or refunds. We create, implement, and maintain information technology solutions, as well as sell products that are often critical to our clients’ operations, including operations in war zones and other hazardous environments. We have experienced and may in the future experience some systems and service failures, schedule or delivery delays, and other problems in connection with our work. If our solutions, services, products, including third party products we may resell to our clients, or other applications have significant defects or errors, are subject to delivery delays, or fail to meet our clients’ expectations, we may: • lose revenue due to adverse client reaction; • be required to provide additional services to a client at no charge; 19 Table of Contents • receive negative publicity, which could damage our reputation and adversely affect our ability to attract or retain clients; or • suffer claims for substantial damages against us. In addition to any costs resulting from product or service warranties, contract performance, or required corrective action, these failures may result in increased costs or loss of revenue if clients postpone subsequently scheduled work or cancel or fail to renew contracts. While many of our contracts limit our liability for consequential damages that may arise from negligence in rendering services to our clients, these contractual provisions may not be legally sufficient to protect us if we are sued. In addition, our errors and omissions and product liability insurance coverage may not continue to be available on reasonable terms or in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims, or the insurer may disclaim coverage as to some types of future claims. As we continue to grow and expand our business into new areas, our insurance coverage may not be adequate. The successful assertion of any large claim against us could seriously harm our business. Even if not successful, these claims could result in significant legal and other costs, may be a distraction to our management, and may harm our reputation. As a prime contractor, we often rely significantly upon other companies as subcontractors to perform work we are obligated to deliver to our clients. Revenue derived from work performed by our subcontractors represented approximately 26%, 25%, and 29% of our revenue for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. A failure by one or more of our subcontractors to satisfactorily perform the agreed-upon services on a timely basis may compromise our ability to perform our obligations as a prime contractor. In some cases, we have limited involvement in the work performed by the subcontractor and may have exposure as a result of problems caused by the subcontractor or the subcontractor’s failure to comply with contractual or regulatory requirements. In extreme cases, performance deficiencies on the part of our subcontractors could result in a government client terminating our contract for default. A default termination could expose us to liability for the agency’s costs of re-procurement, damage our reputation, and hurt our ability to compete for future contracts. Additionally, we may have disputes with our subcontractors that could impair our ability to execute our contracts as required. We may lose money or incur financial penalties if we agree to provide services under a performance-based contract arrangement. Under certain performance-based contract arrangements, we are paid only to the extent our customer actually realizes savings or achieves some other performance-based improvements that result from our services. In addition, we may also incur certain penalties. Performance-based contracts could impose substantial costs and risks, including: • the need to accurately understand and estimate in advance the improved performance that might result from our services; • the lack of experience both we and our primary customers have in using this type of contract arrangement; and • the requirement that we incur significant expenses with no guarantee of recovering these expenses or realizing a profit in the future. Even if we successfully execute a performance-based contract, our interim operating results and cash flows may be negatively affected by the fact that we may be required to incur significant up-front expenses prior to realizing any related revenue. The prevailing adverse economic conditions also require us to monitor the financial health of our commercial customers, our subcontractors and others to whom we have financial exposures. Financial weakness could expose us to credit losses or require us to modify terms. 20 Table of Contents Employee Hiring and Retention: If we fail to attract and retain qualified employees, we might not be able to staff recently awarded engagements and sustain our profit margins and revenue growth. We must hire significant numbers of highly qualified individuals who have advanced information technology and technical services skills and who work well with our clients in a government environment. In some cases, they are required to have security clearances issued by the Department of Defense or other government agencies. These employees are in great demand and are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future. If we are unable to recruit and retain a sufficient number of these employees, our ability to staff recently awarded engagements and to maintain and grow our business could be limited. We are operating in a tight labor market for cleared personnel and, if it continues to tighten, we could be required to engage larger numbers of subcontractor personnel, which could cause our profit margins to suffer. In addition, some of our contracts contain provisions requiring us to commit to staff an engagement with personnel the client considers key to our successful performance under the contract. In the event we are unable to provide these key personnel or acceptable substitutions, the client may terminate the contract, and we may not be able to recover our costs. Our failure to obtain and maintain necessary security clearances may limit our ability to perform classified work for government clients, which could cause us to lose business. Some government contracts require us to maintain facility security clearances and require some of our employees to maintain individual security clearances. We have seen a recent increase in the number of clients requiring special security clearances and the types of clearances required. If our employees lose or are unable to timely obtain security clearances, or we lose a facility clearance, the government client can terminate the contract or decide not to renew it upon its expiration. As a result, to the extent we cannot obtain the required security clearances for our employees working on a particular contract, or we fail to obtain them on a timely basis, we may not derive the revenue anticipated from the contract, which could harm our operating results. Activation of military and National Guard reserves could significantly reduce our revenue and profits. Activation of military reserves, in connection with international conflicts or otherwise, could result in some clients and client contracting staff being activated into the military services. This could delay contract awards that might be in the evaluation or award process, which could in turn reduce our revenue until such time as our clients are able to complete the evaluation and award process, or could even result in the loss of the potential contract award. Additionally, as of June 30, 2009, we had approximately 200 employees who serve as reserves for a branch of the military or the National Guard. In the event of a significant call-up we will pay these employees the differential between their military pay and their salary for up to one year. Our standard practice in the absence of a significant call-up is to provide for up to 15 days of differential pay for military leave. To the extent those called for military duty are directly billable on our contracts, our revenue could be reduced. Additionally, our fringe benefit expenses would be increased by any differential payments, which could reduce our profits. Revenue Recorded in Excess of Funding: We may lose revenue and our cash flow and profitability could be negatively affected if expenditures are incurred prior to final receipt of a contract or contract funding modification. We provide professional services and sometimes procure materials on behalf of our government clients under various contract arrangements. From time to time, in order to ensure that we satisfy our clients’ delivery requirements and schedules, we may elect to initiate procurements or provide services in advance of receiving formal contractual authorization from the government client or a prime contractor. If our government or prime contractor requirements should change or the government directs the anticipated procurement to a contractor other than us, or if the materials become obsolete or require modification before we are under contract for the procurement, our investment might be at risk. If we do not receive the required funding, our cost of services incurred in excess of contractual funding may not be recoverable. This could reduce anticipated revenue or result in a loss, negatively affecting our cash flow and profitability. As disclosed in Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements, the amount of risk funding at June 30, 2009 was $4.3 million. 21 Table of Contents Additional Costs of Doing Business with State, Local, and Other Governments and Organizations: Contracts with state and local governments, other governments, international entities, or other organizations with special standing, could impose substantial additional liability and costs upon us. As organizations seek to enhance their security, particularly state and local governments, other governments, international entities, and other organizations with special standing, such as the World Bank, we have the opportunity to expand our services beyond our core federal government client base. Revenues from contracts with state and local governments were 1.5% in fiscal year 2009 and revenues from contracts with international entities and foreign governments was 2.5% in fiscal year 2009. Contracting with such entities involves additional risks that may result in additional costs to us, including: • the additional costs associated with evaluating, qualifying, and negotiating such opportunities; • a requirement to understand and comply with the specific procurement laws and/or regulations of each individual state, locality, other government, international entity, or other party with special standing; • the contractual acceptance of liability provisions that impose, for example, liquidated damages or other monetary damages in excess of the amount of services we provide, and in some cases are unlimited in amount; • the unavailability of certain protections that would typically be available under federal or common law; and • an increased risk of additional costs associated with dispute resolution. International business may pose greater risks than domestic business due to the differing nature of and the potential for changes in foreign economic, regulatory and political environments. International business may also be highly sensitive to changes in foreign national priorities and government budgets. Work performed in foreign locations may be subject to foreign income and other taxes. We will incur costs in monitoring and complying with the tax laws and regulations in the various foreign locations where we do business, and these costs could be significant. Among other things, we could face scrutiny of transfer pricing arrangements by authorities in countries in which we operate. Failure to comply with all foreign tax laws and regulations may result in penalties and interest in addition to any tax liability owed. There are also U.S. and international regulations relating to investments, exchange controls and repatriation of earnings, as well as varying currency, political and economic risks. It may be more difficult to enforce contracts and collect accounts receivable in foreign markets, our liabilities and risks under contracts or to third parties may be materially different, and we may encounter longer payment cycles. The legal form for our doing business in foreign markets, including as a branch or subsidiary, depends in part on local laws, and we may be subjected to the jurisdiction of foreign courts. In addition, some countries may provide reduced protection for our intellectual property rights, and laws often materially different from those in the U.S. govern relationships with our employees, suppliers, sales representatives and consultants. We will also be required to comply with complex U.S. laws regulating our foreign operations. This includes the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which provides penalties for certain corrupt practices, such as bribes made to foreign officials, and defines standards relating to internal accounting controls. Most of the foreign countries in which we do business have laws similar to the FCPA and, in some cases, the restrictions are more severe. U.S. laws also regulate the brokering of defense articles and services and the import and export of certain articles, services, and data. Foreign countries generally have similar laws with which we must comply. In many cases, U.S. export control laws may be more restrictive than that of other countries; thus, foreign competitors may not be subject to the same degree of compliance. Additionally, the U.S. imposes certain anti-boycott obligations. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our business. The revenue and expenses of our foreign operations are generally denominated in local currencies, primarily the British Pound, Euro, or Czech 22 Table of Contents Koruna and then are translated into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. For the year ended June 30, 2009, 1.6% of our revenue was denominated in British pounds, and 2.2% of our revenue was denominated in other foreign currencies, primarily Euros and Czech Korunas. We have exposure to the extent contract revenues are denominated in a currency different than the contract costs. On these contracts changes in exchange rates may adversely impact profit. In addition, changes in the exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar will affect the translation of foreign results into U.S. dollars for purposes of reporting our consolidated results. We cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on future sales and operating results. Compliance with U.S. Laws in Foreign Countries: Our operations involving foreign countries and foreign personnel require our compliance with complex U.S. laws, including the Arms Export Control Act, the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, the Export Administration Act, the Export Administration Regulations, the Trading with the Enemy Act, the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, and other similar laws. U.S. laws strictly control the manufacture, export or brokering of defense-related articles and services and dual-use goods, software, and technology. Some of the articles and services we and our subsidiaries sell are subject to these restrictions, and violations can lead to civil or criminal penalties. The breadth and complexity of these laws require that we constantly monitor our operations to ensure compliance. Prior to its acquisition by us, Era voluntarily disclosed to the U.S. Department of State potential brokering activities related to product sales of its Czech subsidiary. Following our acquisition, we engaged an outside law firm to conduct a compliance audit of Era operations and two additional potential violations of the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) were identified, one involving a possible brokering violation between U.S. personnel and a foreign country and the second involving use of a U.S.-origin electronic component in a Czech military product exported in potential violation of ITAR export licensing requirements. We disclosed the audit results to the U.S. State Department. We subsequently received notification from the State Department determining that Era had violated ITAR but they are closing the case at this time without imposition of civil penalty. We subsequently discovered evidence of discussions that may have constituted a possible brokering violation between a U.S. person and a foreign country. We voluntarily disclosed and discussed this latest evidence with the U.S. State Department. To ensure compliance with restrictions on brokering, we currently operate Era under a sequestration agreement, which gives the Czech managers of Era’s Czech subsidiary sole authority to manage the defense-related activities of the subsidiary’s military division and prohibits certain managerial input of U.S. personnel. This sequestration agreement has not been approved by the U.S. State Department. To ensure compliance management meets periodically, a Technology Control Plan has been put in place, and relevant employees have received training. Recently SRA was registered as a broker with the U.S. Department of State Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (DDTC), permitting SRA brokering activities for defense-related articles in NATO and certain other countries. The U.S. State Department recently provided authorizations related to the VERA-E product for several key markets, and SRA will prepare to file several requests for authorization of defense-related brokering for DDTC approval. When export controlled U.S. content is involved, we plan to subject Czech defense-related operations to U.S. EAR or ITAR requirements as applicable. This action may limit countries to which we will be permitted to sell our products, reducing potential revenues, and in some cases may delay sales pending governmental approvals. Acquisitions Have Risks: We may not be successful in identifying acquisition candidates and, if we undertake acquisitions, they could be expensive, increase our costs or liabilities, or disrupt our business. Additionally, if we are unable to successfully integrate companies we acquire, our revenue and operating results may be impaired. One of our strategies is to augment our organic growth through acquisitions. Since 2001, we have completed eleven acquisitions of complementary companies that provide services and solutions in one of our three target markets. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates at prices that we consider appropriate or to finance acquisitions on terms that are satisfactory to us. Acquisitions of businesses or other material operations may require additional debt or equity financing, resulting in leverage or dilution of ownership. Additionally, 23 Table of Contents negotiations of potential acquisitions and the integration of acquired business operations could disrupt our business by diverting management attention away from day-to-day operations and we may not be able to successfully integrate the companies we acquire. We also may not realize cost efficiencies or synergies that we anticipated when selecting our acquisition candidates. Acquired companies may have liabilities or adverse operating issues that we fail to discover through due diligence. Any costs, liabilities, or disruptions associated with future acquisitions could harm our operating results. In addition, following the integration of acquired companies, we may experience increased attrition, including but not limited to key employees of acquired companies, which could reduce our future revenue. SRA’s legacy health business had primarily served as an IT functional expert for the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). With the acquisition of Constella Group, LLC in August 2007, SRA expanded its domain experience in numerous aspects of the U.S. and global health care markets. Through its work in health sciences and clinical research, Constella provides federal and local governments, foundations and academic institutions with health and clinical research, biosurveillance, pharmacovigilance, informatics and IT support services for a variety of public health programs. SRA provides services to various HHS agencies including the National Institutes of Health (NIH), the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), as well as the Department of Veterans Affairs. This U.S. federal component represents over three-quarters of our total health business. Second our global clinical development (GCD) business provides pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and medical device firms with a comprehensive range of consultative and operational development services that span every phase of the product development process from development strategy creation, early stage product development to clinical trial delivery, and global regulatory submissions to post-marketing support. GCD has offices in the U.S. and Europe. For a discussion of specific risks, see risk factor titled Unique Risks in our GCD Business below. Our July 2008 acquisition of Era Systems Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and M/S ERA a.s., its indirect Czech subsidiary, establishes our presence in surveillance and flight tracking solutions for the air traffic management, military, security, and airport operations markets, but its international operations and complex technologies may also expose us to greater legal and business risks. Era’s Czech operations utilize suppliers from various countries. Prior to our acquisition, Era filed disclosures with the U.S. Department of State regarding Era’s potential brokering activities related to the foreign sales of its Czech subsidiary. U.S. law requires government approval of brokering of defense articles and services to certain foreign countries, and violation can result in civil and criminal penalties. Upon the acquisition, we have been in active discussions with the proper U.S. Government officials, and we are putting in place operational procedures prohibiting any unapproved brokering. We are conducting an audit of Era’s operations and training its employees to ensure compliance with relevant U.S. laws. We are still conducting a review, and cannot be certain that no claims ultimately will be made against Era. Exports from the Czech Republic are subject to Czech export control laws, and our plan is to subject all such exports also to U.S. Government approvals as required, which can be expected to limit the countries to which such products may be exported if such products include controlled U.S. content. Prior to our acquisition, Era also conducted a review of various foreign representatives and consultants and began a process of restructuring certain of its related contractual agreements to ensure compliance with foreign laws that, amongst other things, restrict for certain countries use of commissioned representatives for select products. The customer base for our recently acquired Era business includes countries in emerging markets. Therefore, our revenues, in particular, may be adversely affected by the current uncertainty in global market conditions. Our projected revenues and operating results are based on assumptions concerning levels of customer spending, primarily by foreign governments. Continued weakness or further deterioration of the global economy could delay or decrease purchases of our products by our customers. Additionally, the weakened economy and tightness of the credit markets may result in supplier disruptions, which could reduce our revenues. 24 Table of Contents Impairment of Intangible Assets: Changes in future economic or business conditions could cause recorded goodwill or other intangible assets to become impaired, resulting in material losses and write-downs that would reduce the company’s operating income and financial position. Goodwill and other intangible assets account for almost half of the company’s recorded total assets. The company evaluates goodwill for impairment annually, or more frequently when evidence of potential impairment exists. The annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. In particular, a significant decrease in expected future cash flows or continued deterioration in economic conditions could require the company to record an impairment charge that could have a material impact on the company’s operating results and financial position. Unique Risks in our GCD Business: Our global drug development business, a component of our Constella acquisition, is subject to risks that may adversely affect our results of operations. Contracts to provide clinical research services are subject to various risks, including (e.g., economic, regulatory, and litigation arising out of personal injury and professional malpractice claims) that are unique to the clinical research and development sector. Of particular note has been the impact of the global recession on the availability of funding for the small and mid-sized pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies in the U.S. and Europe that make up the bulk of GCD’s customer base, and the resulting retraction in the number of drugs and biological agents that are being taken through clinical trials or to market. Penalties and Sanctions from Government Audits: Unfavorable government audit results could force us to adjust previously reported operating results and could subject us to a variety of penalties and sanctions. The federal government reviews and audits our contract performance, pricing and cost accounting practices, and compliance with other applicable laws and regulations. Like most large government contractors, our contracts are reviewed and audited on a continual basis by federal agencies, including the Defense Contract Management Agency, or DCMA and the Defense Contract Audit Agency, or DCAA. An audit of our contracts, including an audit of contracts performed by companies we have acquired or may acquire or subcontractors we have hired or may hire, could result in a substantial adjustment to our previously reported operating results. Additionally, the recent increase in government oversight through requirements such as the Mandatory Disclosure Rule increases the potential for more frequent government audits regarding general compliance with laws and contractual requirements and increases the associated risk of penalties. All significant incurred cost submission audits have been completed through fiscal year 2006. Subsequent fiscal year cost submission audits as well as other audits and reviews by the government may still be conducted on all our government contracts. Other audit reviews by the government may include audits relative to our compliance with laws, regulations and contractual requirements. Such audits may be conducted for labor qualification compliance, information assurance and information security requirement compliance, service contract act compliance, as well as all other regulatory or contractual requirement compliance. A government audit may require an adjustment to total contract values, previous amounts invoiced and/or include penalties associated with any discovered non-compliance. If a government audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with U.S. federal government agencies. In addition, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety were made against us, whether or not true. If we were suspended or debarred from contracting with the federal government generally, or any specific agency, if our reputation or relationship with government agencies were impaired, or if the government otherwise ceased doing business with us or significantly decreased the amount of business it does with us, our revenue and operating results would be materially harmed. 25 Table of Contents Injury to Our Employees: Our business commitments require our employees to travel to potentially dangerous places, which may result in injury to our employees. Our business involves providing services that require our employees to operate in various countries around the world, including Iraq and Afghanistan. These countries may be experiencing political upheaval or unrest, and in some cases war or terrorism. Senior level employees or executives may, on occasion, be part of the teams deployed to provide services in these countries. As a result, it is possible that certain of our employees or executives will suffer injury or bodily harm in the course of these deployments. It is also possible that we will encounter unexpected costs in connection with additional risks inherent with sending our employees to dangerous locations, such as increased insurance costs, as well as the repatriation of our employees or executives for reasons beyond our control. Security Threats: Our business could be negatively impacted by security threats and other disruptions. Like others in our industry, we continue to face attacks on our information infrastructure. We earlier in the year identified a sophisticated virus and subsequently have identified variants on our computer network. While we have not determined that specific information has been exfiltrated from our information infrastructure, our forensic analysts suggest that the virus and its variants are designed for this purpose and, based on indirect evidence found, there is the possibility that data was compromised. We earlier have notified customers and employees regarding that possibility. A U.S. government customer is considering the potential for data breach of specific information, and, while the outcome of that effort is uncertain, we may incur costs to mitigate the impact to our customer or address potential claims and to take further steps to increase the level of protection of relevant data. With our active cooperation, the U.S. Department of Defense Inspector General and its agencies are also reviewing our policies and procedures and infrastructure architecture, providing technical support and assistance, and reviewing current and past compliance with network security-related contractual obligations. Depending on the outcome of this continuing review, they may demand the reduction of certain contract prices, changes in our current processes and increased expenditures for network security. We believe that we will continue to be subject to sophisticated virus threats, and we have made and expect to continue to make significant expenditures for network security and monitoring to address these threats. See risk factor entitled Security Threats under Risks Related to our Industry. Security Breaches Reputational Risk: Security breaches in sensitive government systems could result in loss of clients and negative publicity. Many of the systems we develop, install, and maintain involve managing and protecting information used in intelligence, national security, and other sensitive or classified government functions. A security breach in one of these systems could cause serious harm to our business, damage our reputation, and prevent us from being eligible for further work on sensitive or classified systems for federal government clients. We could incur losses from such a security breach that could exceed the policy limits under our insurance. Damage to our reputation or limitations on our eligibility for additional work resulting from a security breach in one of our systems could materially reduce our revenue. Others Might Infringe On Our Intellectual Property: We depend on our intellectual property and our failure to protect it could enable competitors to market products and services with similar features that may reduce demand for our products. We employ patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secret laws to establish and maintain proprietary rights in our technology and products. With the acquisitions of Era and ICS, we currently own 30 issued patents in the U.S., and own or have applied for a lesser number in certain other foreign jurisdictions. We believe that while our intellectual property protections have value, our future business success will rely primarily upon the expertise and management skills of our employees. SRA leverages its patented technologies in sales of services and customer licenses; the patents themselves are not licensed to any third party, and no revenue is derived directly from the patents. Most of the patent applications were filed after January 2000 and still have durations of 26 Table of Contents 10 to 15 years. We do not have the same protections in many foreign jurisdictions. Our competitors could market services or products similar to our services and products, which could reduce demand for our offerings. Federal government clients typically retain a perpetual, world-wide, royalty-free right to use the intellectual property we develop for them in any manner they deem appropriate, including providing it to our competitors in connection with their performance of other federal government contracts. We typically take advantage of standard FAR and DFARS data rights clauses that allow us to re-use intellectual property developed with funding from the federal government. When necessary, we seek to secure export authorization. Due to the nature of our technology, it is generally difficult to determine whether similar products or solutions offered by third parties infringe on our own. Despite our diligence and policies to protect our technology, we may be unable to prevent unauthorized parties from attempting to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology. Policing unauthorized use of our technology is difficult, and we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our intellectual property as fully as those in the United States. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, and to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Any litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, with no assurance of success. Intellectual Property Infringement Claims: We may be harmed by intellectual property infringement claims. Our employees develop much of the software and other forms of intellectual property that we use to provide our services and business solutions to our clients, but we also license technology from other vendors. While we take every industry-standard precaution to ensure that we have clear title to work product and establish appropriate use and distribution licenses for third party products, we may become subject to claims from our employees or third parties who assert that software and other forms of intellectual property that we use in delivering services and business solutions infringe upon their intellectual property rights. If our vendors or third parties assert such claims, we could incur substantial costs to defend those claims. In addition, if any of these infringement claims are ultimately successful, we could be required to: • cease selling or using products or services that incorporate the challenged software or technology; • obtain a license or additional licenses from our vendors or other third parties; or • redesign our products and services that rely on the challenged software or technology. It may not be possible to determine in advance whether our products, their components, or our services infringe a third party’s patent rights. Regardless of the merit of intellectual property claims, such claims can be time-consuming and costly, and we may be required to develop a non-infringing technology or enter into license agreements. Our customers may require indemnity for patent infringement and similar intellectual property challenges. If any intellectual property claim made against us is successful, if we are required to indemnify a customer with respect to third party claims, or if we are unable to develop non-infringing technology or license proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms, our business could be materially and adversely affected. To date, we have not been involved in any such infringement claims. Debt covenants restrict our Actions: Covenants in our credit facility may restrict our financial and operating flexibility. On May 29, 2008, we amended our five-year unsecured revolving credit facility dated August 9, 2007 to increase the commitment from $100 million to $285 million. At June 30, 2009, we had $75 million outstanding under this facility. The credit facility contains covenants limiting our ability to, among other things, merge or consolidate with others, incur liens, redeem or repurchase our stock, enter into transactions with affiliates, or dispose of assets. In addition, the credit facility contains financial covenants requiring us to maintain specified financial ratios. Our ability to satisfy these financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet these ratios. If we do not comply with the various covenants under the credit facility, the lenders may, subject to various customary cure rights, require immediate payment of all amounts 27 Table of Contents outstanding under the facility, and the lenders could proceed against our assets. We also may incur future debt obligations that might subject us to restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility or subject us to other events of default. From time to time we may require consents or waivers from our lenders to permit actions that are prohibited by our credit facility. If our lenders refuse to provide waivers of our credit facility’s restrictive covenants or financial ratios, then we may be prohibited from undertaking actions that are necessary or desirable to maintain and expand our business. The recent downturn in the equity and debt markets, the tightening of the credit markets and the general economic slowdown in the U.S. could make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital or obtain additional financing. We cannot be certain that additional funds will be available if needed and to the extent required or, if available, on acceptable terms. If we cannot raise additional funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to fund expansion or take advantage of future opportunities. Other Risks Related To Our Stock Stock Price Volatility: Our stock price is volatile and could decline. The stock market in general and the market for technology-related stocks in particular, has been highly volatile. As a result, the market price of our class A common stock is likely to be similarly volatile, and holders of our class A common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their stock, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. The price of our class A common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including those listed in this “Risk Factors” section and others such as: • actual operating results that differ from our prior performance, our earnings estimates or those of securities analysts; • changes in our revenue or earnings estimates, or estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • the performance of other similar companies or companies deemed to be similar; • publication of research reports about us or our industry by securities analysts; • additions and departures of key personnel; • contract mix and the extent of use of subcontractors; • strategic decisions by our competitors, such as acquisitions, consolidations, divestitures, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments, or changes in business strategy; • speculation in the press or investment community; • changes in the government information technology services industry; • terrorist acts; • general market conditions, including economic factors unrelated to our performance; and • military action related to international conflicts, wars, or otherwise. Our revenue and operating results could vary significantly from quarter to quarter. In addition, we cannot predict with certainty our future revenue or results of operations. As a consequence, our operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause the price of our class A common stock to decline. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources. 28 Table of Contents Concentration of Voting Power: Our chairman, whose interests may not be aligned with yours, controls our company, which could result in actions of which you or other stockholders do not approve. As of August 14, 2009, Ernst Volgenau, our chairman, beneficially owned 113,078 shares of class A common stock and 12,050,736 shares of class B common stock, which represented approximately 69% of the combined voting power of our outstanding common stock. As of August 14, 2009, our executive officers, directors and chairman of the Board of Directors as a group beneficially owned an aggregate of 937,576 shares of class A common stock and 12,050,736 shares of class B common stock, which represented approximately 69% of the combined voting power of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these individuals acting together, or Dr. Volgenau acting alone, will be able to control the outcome of all matters that our stockholders vote upon, including the election of directors, amendments to our certificate of incorporation, and mergers or other business combinations. This concentration of ownership and voting power may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company and could prevent stockholders from receiving a premium over the market price if a change in control is proposed. Anti-Takeover Provisions Make Changes in Control More Difficult: Provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit potential acquisition bids that you and other stockholders may consider favorable, and the market price of our class A common stock may be lower as a result. There are provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws that make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or attempt to acquire, control of our company, even if a change in control was considered favorable by you and other stockholders. For example, our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The Board of Directors can fix the price, rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions of the preferred stock without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The issuance of shares of preferred stock may delay or prevent a change in control transaction. As a result, the market price of our class A common stock and the voting and other rights of our stockholders may be adversely affected. This issuance of shares of preferred stock may result in the loss of voting control to other stockholders. Our charter documents contain other provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect, including: • the high-vote nature of our class B common stock; • only one of the three classes of directors is elected each year; • stockholders have limited ability to remove directors without cause; • stockholders cannot take actions by written consent; • stockholders cannot call a special meeting of stockholders; and • stockholders must give advance notice to nominate directors or submit proposals for consideration at stockholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which regulates corporate acquisitions. These provisions could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control transaction. They could also have the effect of discouraging others from making tender offers for our class A common stock. These provisions may also prevent changes in our management. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 