ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company and its business because such factors may have a significant effect on its operating results and financial condition. As a result of the risk factors set forth below and the information presented elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, actual results could differ materially from those included in any forward-looking statements. Adverse changes in general economic conditions and disruption in financial markets may adversely affect the business of the Company’s customers and the Company’s business and results of operations. The Company’s business may be affected by uncertainties and general economic conditions beyond our control that may cause customers to defer or cancel new orders and sales commitments previously made. Uncertainty about the direction and relative strength of the economy in the United States and other important markets may be sufficient reason for customers to delay, defer or cancel purchase decisions, including decisions previously made. Economic difficulties in the United States and certain international markets could cause a decrease in the overall demand for our products. Deterioration of national and global economic conditions and disruptions in credit and other financial markets could, among other things: · adversely affect our expansion plans, including possible acquisitions; · impair the financial condition of some of our customers and suppliers, thereby increasing customer bad debts or non-performance by suppliers; · adversely affect our ability to fund new product development necessary to meet future customer requirements; · negatively affect global demand for our customers' products, particularly in the food industry, which could result in underutilization of our production facilities and a reduction of sales, operating income and cash flows; · negatively affect our customers’ ability to obtain financing, which could result in a reduction in sales, operating income and cash flows; · negatively affect our return on cash and cash equivalents; · make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain financing for our operations or investments; · negatively affect our risk management activities if we are required to record losses related to financial instruments or experience counterparty failure; · require asset write-downs; or · impair the financial viability of our insurers. 11 Table of Contents The ongoing uncertainty and volatility in the financial markets related to the U.S. budget deficit, the European sovereign debt crisis and the state of the U.S. economic recovery may adversely affect the Company’s operating results. Global financial markets continue to experience disruptions, including increased volatility, and diminished liquidity and credit availability. In particular, developments in Europe have created uncertainty with respect to the ability of certain European countries to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations. This debt crisis and related European financial restructuring efforts may cause the value of the Euro to deteriorate, reducing the purchasing power of our European customers and reducing the translation of Euro based revenues into U.S. dollars. In the event that one or more countries were to replace the Euro with their legacy currency, then the Company’s sales into such countries, or Europe generally, would likely be adversely affected until stable exchange rates are established. In addition, the European crisis is contributing to instability in global credit markets. If global economic and market conditions, or economic and financial market conditions in Europe, the United States or other key markets, remain uncertain, persist, or deteriorate further, our customers may respond by suspending, delaying or reducing their capital expenditures, which may adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. In addition, these conditions may affect the ability of our suppliers to provide goods and materials to us on a consistent and timely basis which may adversely affect our operations. Adverse economic conditions in the food processing industry, either globally or regionally, may adversely affect the Company's revenues. The markets served by the Company, particularly the food processing industry, are generally experiencing variable economic conditions. Additionally, varying consumer demand, product supply, and excess plant capacity, most notably in the potato market, could result in reduced or deferred capital equipment purchases for our product lines. While we have reacted to these developments with applications directed toward the growing fresh vegetable and fruit industries as well as the pharmaceutical and nutraceutical industries, loss of business, particularly in the potato industry, would have a negative effect on our sales and net earnings. The loss of any of the Company’s significant customers could reduce the Company’s revenues and profitability. The Company has significant, strategic customers and we anticipate that our operating results may continue to depend on these customers for the foreseeable future. The loss of any one of those customers, or a significant decrease in the volume of products they purchase from us, could adversely affect our revenues and materially adversely affect our profitability. Any difficulty in collecting outstanding amounts due from one of those customers may also harm our operating results. In addition, sales to any particular large customer may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter causing fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. The Company is subject to pricing pressure that may reduce the Company’s profitability. The Company faces price sensitivity from customers as well as aggressive pricing by its competitors, particularly in periods of excess capacity. These conditions may require us to be price-competitive. In addition, because of their purchasing volume, our larger customers can influence market participants to compete on price terms. Such customers also use their buying power to negotiate lower prices. If we are not able to offset resulting price reductions by improving operating efficiencies and reducing expenses, such price reductions may have an adverse effect on our profit margins and net earnings. The failure of the Company's independent sales representatives to perform as expected would harm the Company's net sales. Sales by independent sales representatives generally account for between 20% and 30% of the Company's consolidated net sales. If our independent sales representatives fail to market, promote and sell our products adequately, our business will be adversely affected. Our independent sales representatives could reduce or discontinue sales of our products, or they may not devote adequate resources to selling our products in the volumes and within the time frames that we expect, either of which events could adversely affect our revenues and net earnings. 12 Table of Contents The Company may make acquisitions that could disrupt the Company’s operations and harm the Company’s operating results. The Company may in the future make acquisitions of businesses that offer products, services, or technologies that we believe would complement our business. Acquisitions present significant challenges and risks and there can be no assurances that we will manage acquisitions successfully. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: · significant potential expenditures of cash, stock, and management resources; · difficulty achieving the potential financial and strategic benefits of the acquisition; · difficulties in integrating acquired operations or products, including the potential loss of key employees from the acquired business; · difficulties and costs associated with evaluating and integrating the information systems and internal control systems of the acquired business; · impairment of assets related to goodwill and other intangible assets resulting from the acquisition, and reduction in our future operating results from amortization of intangible assets; · diversion of management's attention from our core business, including loss of management focus on marketplace development; · potential difficulties in complying with foreign regulatory requirements; · adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, including the potential loss of suppliers and customers of the acquired business; · assumption of liabilities, known and unknown, related to the acquired business in general, and litigation and other legal process involving the acquired business in particular; · entering geographic areas or distribution channels in which we have limited or no prior experience; and · those risks related to general economic and political conditions. There can be no assurance that attractive acquisition opportunities will be available to us, that we will be able to obtain financing for or otherwise consummate any acquisition, or that any acquisition that we do consummate will be successful. The Company's international operations subject the Company to a number of risks that could adversely affect the Company’s revenues, operating results and growth. The Company conducts business outside the United States, which subjects it to the risks inherent in international operations. In fiscal 2011, our international sales represented approximately 41% of our consolidated net sales, compared to approximately 50% of our consolidated net sales in fiscal 2010. Risks inherent in international operations include the following: · unexpected changes in regulatory and certification requirements; · restrictive governmental actions (such as restrictions on the transfer or repatriation of funds and trade protection measures, including export duties and quotas, customs duties and tariffs, or trade barriers erected by either the United States or other countries where we do business); · currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations; · scrutiny of foreign tax authorities which could result in significant fines, penalties and additional taxes; · changes in import or export licensing requirements; · longer payment cycles; · transportation delays; · competitive pricing that we may experience internationally; · challenges in implementing cost effective operating and manufacturing strategies in varied geographic regions; · economic downturns, civil disturbances or political instability; · geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism or war; · difficulties and costs of staffing and managing geographically disparate operations; · changes in labor standards; · laws and business practices favoring local companies; · limitations on our ability under local law to protect our intellectual property; · changes in domestic and foreign tax rates and laws; and · difficulty in obtaining sales representatives and servicing products in foreign countries, which may adversely affect sales in those countries. 13 Table of Contents Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could result in unanticipated losses that could adversely affect the Company's liquidity and results of operations. The Company is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations because a portion of its revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are denominated in foreign currencies. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates affect our results of operations and financial position. We attempt to manage certain effects of foreign currency fluctuations by entering into short-term forward exchange contracts in situations where it is both possible and practical. In these instances, these contracts are designed to minimize specific foreign currency gains or losses, as the gains or losses on the derivative are intended to offset the losses or gains on the underlying exposure. However, these contracts do not cover our full exposure and, additionally, there is no guarantee that these forward contracts will protect against the foreign exchange fluctuations in the underlying exposure. Accordingly, we could experience foreign currency gains or losses that could have a material impact on our operating results. Advances in technology by competitors may adversely affect the Company’s sales and profitability. The rapidly changing needs of the markets for the Company’s products demand constant innovation. Competitors may be able to adapt or develop technologies to enhance product offerings that directly compete with our products. Advances in technology may also remove some barriers to market entry, enabling additional competitors to enter our markets. These competitive factors could cause our products to become less competitive or obsolete, and decrease our profits, having a material adverse affect on our business and financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to develop new products to compete effectively in the future. The Company’s new and existing products may not compete successfully in either current or new markets, which would adversely affect the Company’s sales and operating results. The future success and growth of the Company is dependent upon its ability to develop, manufacture, market, and sell products and services in certain food processing markets as well as to introduce new products into other existing and potential markets. There can be no assurance we can successfully and profitably penetrate these potential markets or expand into new international markets with our current or future products. In addition, some of our competitors manufacture their products in jurisdictions with substantially lower effective corporate tax rates than the United States, which adversely affects our ability to compete in certain potential markets. There are inherent risks in entering new markets and developing new technologies including: · length of time and cost for development of these markets and technologies; · development of the technological capability to address the requirements and performance specifications of new markets; our ability to manufacture our products in various geographies, which may affect our success in certain emerging markets; · product reliability issues related to both new technology and adapting existing products to operate in new or rugged operating environments at customer sites; and · failure to meet performance specifications, which could damage the profitability and the reputation of the Company and its products. The Company’s expansion into new markets, increasingly complex projects and applications, and integrated product offerings could increase the Company’s cost of operations and reduce gross margins and profitability. The Company's growth strategy includes expansion into new product and geographic markets, complex projects and applications, and integrated product offerings to provide turnkey solutions to customers. As a result, we may encounter new types of competition and be required to develop new sales channels. Development of such markets and turnkey solutions is likely to require sustained investment, increase our cost of sales, reduce our gross margins to the extent products purchased from others are integrated into our product offerings, and result in overall reduced profitability. We are also likely to encounter technical challenges and increased costs related to the integration of products from multiple vendors, adaptation and installation of products in larger and more complex plants, ensuring product performance in more difficult operating environments, and meeting unfamiliar customer requirements and performance specifications. Despite rigorous testing and quality processes, newly-developed or enhanced products 14 Table of Contents or solutions may encounter challenges during or after their initial introduction or installation. We may also encounter increased warranty costs, performance issues and liability risks from products we sell but do not manufacture. The Company’s product offerings depend, to a certain extent, on products and components manufactured by others. In certain instances, the Company depends on original equipment manufacturers and other suppliers of components included in its products for the timely delivery of its integrated turnkey products. Such suppliers may experience problems beyond our control, which may disrupt our ability to deliver our products to our customers and damage our relationships with current and future customers. These risks may include varying lead times, supplier capacity, delayed shipments, and quality control problems. In addition, supplier pricing may change and be higher than anticipated. As a result of these and other factors, our revenues and profit margins may be adversely affected. The Company's information systems, computer equipment and information databases are critical to its business operations, and any damage or disruptions could adversely affect the Company's business and results of operations. The Company's operations are dependent on its ability to protect its information systems, computer equipment and information databases from systems failures. Such failures could be caused by internal or external events, such as incursions by intruders or hackers, computer viruses, failures in hardware or software, power fluctuations or cyber terrorists. The failure of these systems to perform as anticipated for any reason or any significant breach of security could disrupt our business and result in numerous adverse consequences, including reduced effectiveness and efficiency of operations, increased overhead costs and loss of important information, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The Company's potential inability to retain and recruit experienced management and other key personnel, or the loss of key management personnel, may adversely affect the Company’s business and prospects for growth. The Company's success depends in part on the skills and experience of its key employees. The loss of services of such employees could adversely affect our business until suitable replacements can be found. In addition, our headquarters are located in Walla Walla, Washington, a small, relatively remote geographic location. As such, there may be a limited number of individuals locally with the requisite skill and experience, and we have from time-to-time experienced difficulty recruiting individuals from larger metropolitan areas. Consequently, the Company may not be able to retain and recruit a sufficient number of qualified individuals on acceptable terms to maintain its business or achieve planned growth. Our success also depends, to a significant degree, upon the continued individual and collective contributions of our management team. A limited number of individuals have primary responsibility for managing our business, including our relationships with key customers. These individuals are integral to our success based on their expertise and knowledge of our business and products. The loss of the services of members of the management team and other key employees for any reason could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The potential inability to protect the Company’s intellectual property, especially as the Company expands geographically, may adversely affect the Company's competitive advantage. The Company’s competitive position may be affected by its ability to protect its proprietary technology. We have obtained certain patents and have filed a number of patent applications. We also anticipate filing applications for protection of our future products and technology. There can be no assurance that any such patents will provide meaningful protection for our product innovations, or that the issuance of a patent will give us any material advantage over our competition in connection with any of our products. We may experience additional intellectual property risks in international markets where we may lack patent protection. The patent laws of other countries, such as China, may differ from those of the U.S. as to the patentability of our products and processes. Moreover, the degree of protection afforded by foreign patents may be different from that of U.S. patents. 15 Table of Contents Intellectual property-related litigation expenses and other costs resulting from infringement claims asserted against the Company by third parties may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and its customer relations. The technologies used by the Company may infringe the patents or proprietary technology of others, and the Company has been required in the past to initiate litigation to protect its patents. The cost of enforcing our patent rights in lawsuits that we may bring against infringers or of defending ourselves against infringement charges by other patent holders or other third parties, including customers, may be high and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our customer relations. The Company's dependence on certain suppliers may leave the Company temporarily without adequate access to raw materials or products. The Company relies on third-party domestic and foreign suppliers for certain raw materials and component products, particularly in its automated inspection equipment product line. Several of these suppliers are the single source of the raw material or component provided to us. We do not have long-term contracts with any supplier. We may be adversely affected in the event that these suppliers cease operations or if pricing terms become less favorable. The loss of a key vendor may force us to purchase our necessary raw materials and components in the open market, which may not be possible or may be at higher prices, until we could secure another source. There is no assurance that the terms of any subsequent supply arrangements we may enter into would be as favorable as the supply arrangements we currently have in place. If we are unable to replace a key supplier, we may face delays in delivering finished products, which could have an adverse effect on our sales, financial performance and reputation. The Company's operating results are seasonal and may further fluctuate due to severe weather conditions affecting the agricultural industry in various parts of the world. A large portion of the Company's customer base processes agricultural products and its demand for the Company’s products and solutions fluctuates seasonally. Consequently, we generally experience lower sales and net income in our first two fiscal quarters. As a result of these seasonal and quarterly fluctuations, comparisons of our sales and operating results between different quarters within a single fiscal year may not necessarily provide meaningful comparisons. In addition, in the event of severe weather conditions or geological events that negatively affect the production of growers, such as prolonged droughts, serious floods or earthquakes, the food processing industry may not invest in a particular year or years in new equipment in the affected locations. As a result, our revenues, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. The limited availability and possible cost fluctuations of materials used in the Company's products could adversely affect the Company's gross margins. Certain basic materials, such as stainless steel, are used extensively in the Company’s product fabrication processes. Such basic materials have, in the past, been subject to worldwide shortages or price fluctuations related to the supply of or demand for raw materials, such as nickel, which are used in their production by our suppliers. A significant increase in the price or decrease in the availability of one or more of these components, subassemblies or basic materials could adversely affect our results of operations. Compliance with recently passed health care legislation may adversely affect the Company’s business. In March 2010, Congress passed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act (collectively, the "Acts"). Among other things, the Acts contain provisions that will affect employer-sponsored health care plans, impose excise taxes on certain plans, and reduce the tax benefits available to employers that receive the Medicare Part D subsidy. We are currently reviewing the provisions of the Acts and their impact on our Company-sponsored plans. We are currently unable to estimate costs associated with compliance with the Acts. 16 Table of Contents The Company’s reported results may be affected adversely by the implementation of new, or changes in the interpretation of existing, accounting principles or financial reporting requirements, which could require the Company to incur substantial additional expenses. Our financial reporting complies with the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) in the United States, and GAAP is subject to change over time. If new rules or interpretations of existing rules require us to change our financial reporting (including the adoption of international financial reporting standards in the United States), our reported results of operations and financial condition could be affected substantially by the new requirements, which could include requirements to restate historical financial statements. Our management team may need to devote significant time and financial resources to comply with evolving standards, which may lead to increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure will result in additional expenses to the Company and pose challenges for the Company’s management. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and the rules and regulations promulgated under that act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and SEC regulations, have created uncertainty for public companies and significantly increased the costs and risks associated with accessing the U.S. public markets. Our management team will need to devote significant time and financial resources to comply with both existing and evolving standards for public companies, which will lead to increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. 17 Table of Contents 