Item 1A. Risk Factors The statements in this Section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. We provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our business. These are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. Risks Relating to our Business We have incurred losses in our last three fiscal years and our losses may continue. We incurred a net loss of approximately $14.4 million for our fiscal year ended March 31, 2008, $32.0 million for our fiscal year ended March 31, 2007 and $8.5 million for our fiscal year ended March 31, 2006. Our net losses may continue and our ability to achieve and sustain profitability will be impacted by the following: • Our access to sufficient working capital and vendor credit to fund our sales and other operating activities. • Our revenue may not increase or even remain at its current level. • Our operating expenses may increase as we continue to develop our business. If our expenses increase more rapidly than our revenue, or if revenue and expense levels remain the same, we may never become profitable. • If we fail to reach profitability or sustain or grow our profits within the time frame expected by investors, the market price of our common stock may be adversely impacted. • Our ability to increase our Access, IP Telephony, Networking solution revenue and our Managed Services revenue to improve overall service margins, as well as our ability to leverage our current customer base and sell to selected industry segments or industry “verticals.” • Our ability to keep pace with rapidly changing technology and frequent introductions of new IT products, services, and product and service enhancements, and our ability to fulfill increasingly sophisticated client requirements. • Our ability to attract, train, retain and motivate qualified IT, sales and senior management personnel in a market place where competition for qualified personnel is significant. There is a shortage of qualified personnel in these fields and we compete with other companies for this limited pool of IT professionals and sales and senior management personnel. 5 We require access to significant working capital and vendor credit to fund our day-to-day operations. Our failure to comply with the financial and other covenants under our working capital facility and other credit arrangements could lead to a termination of those agreements and an acceleration of our outstanding debt. We require access to significant working capital and vendor credit to fund our day-to-day operations, particularly at the end of our fiscal quarters when demand for our products and services increases substantially. Our credit facilities agreement (described in Part II, Item 7) with GE Commercial Distribution Finance Corporation, as Administrative Agent, and our credit agreement (described in Part II, Item 7) with Columbia Partners, L.L.C. Investment Management, as Investment Manager, and National Electric Benefit Fund, as Lender, contain a number of financial and other covenants, including minimum consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, minimum consolidated liquidity multiples and maximum consolidated leverage ratios. A breach of these financial or other covenants, unless waived, would be a default under each facility. Upon an event of default, each of these lenders may terminate their respective facilities and/or declare all amounts outstanding under such facilities immediately due and payable and exercise other remedies including foreclosure of the security for the obligations under such facilities. The acceleration of our debt would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity. Additionally, the amount of working capital available to us under the credit facilities agreement is dependent upon the amount and quality of our accounts receivable. Significant defaults, or payment delays, of our accounts receivable could materially adversely affect our borrowing base and our access to sufficient working capital. Our vendor agreements and lines of credit are generally terminable by the vendor at any time. Any significant termination of these arrangements would adversely impact our ability to deliver our IT solutions and reduce our working capital availability. We may need additional funds to support our current and future operations which, if available, could result in an increase in our interest expense and/ or dilution of your shareholdings. If these funds are not available, our business could be adversely affected. We may raise funds through public or private debt or equity financing. If funds are raised through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of our then current shareholders may be reduced and such securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of debt securities, such securities could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock and the terms of such debt could impose restrictions on our operations. If additional funds become necessary, additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to continue to fund our current operations or expand our business. A prolonged downturn in economic conditions may impact our revenues and negatively affect our business in the future. The recent economic slowdown in particular within the lending industry may negatively affect our business. Customers may cancel or delay orders for our products or services, and we could fall short of our revenue projections for 2009 and beyond. Slower growth and budget tightening among our customers and other general economic factors all have had, and could in the future have a materially adverse effect on our revenue, capital resources, financial condition and results of operations. The failure to maintain our status as an authorized reseller/service provider of IT products or a significant change in the terms of our supplier agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. We are materially dependent on our continued status as an approved reseller of IT products and our continued authorization as an IT service provider. We would be unable to provide the range of products and services we currently offer, including warranty services, without such authorization. Our resale agreements with manufacturers generally are terminable by manufacturers on short notice. The sales of products from our two largest suppliers accounted for 29% and 19% of all product sales for the year ended March 31, 2008. The loss of one or more of such authorizations could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, our professional services revenues depend in large part on our accreditations with other vendors such as Citrix, Cisco, and Microsoft. Most of our major vendors require that we maintain specifically trained and accredited staff at each of our offices in order to resell and provide services associated with such products. Furthermore, certain such vendors require that we make annual purchases of their products for use in our labs and for marketing purposes. Each vendor independently determines these requirements for those organizations which it authorizes to provide services in connection with their products. If these requirements should become substantially more burdensome, they could affect our business in either of two ways: (1) we would elect not to continue our accreditation with such vendor and forgo the revenues associated with the resale of such vendor’s products and associated services, or (2) we would incur the additional expense associated with additional staff training or equipment purchase requirements. In either case, this could have a negative impact on our operating results. We are subject to substantial competition which could adversely affect our operating results. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive with respect to performance, quality and price. In our professional services business our competition ranges from small, specialty integrators, to other service providers of comparable size and profile to us, as well as large national and global professional services firms and integrators. Our smaller competitors generally are highly focused on their immediate market segment and can respond more quickly to changes in client needs. Our larger competitors generally have greater financial resources and may be able to compete more effectively than we can on prices and payment terms offered to potential clients. This competition impacts our ability to acquire and retain clients and reduces the prices we can charge for our offering. In addition, the computer and IT products and services industries have each experienced a significant amount of consolidation through mergers and acquisitions. We also compete with manufacturers, including those serving as our vendors, which market through direct sales forces and distributors. More aggressive competition by principal manufacturers of computer and IT products, such as offering a full range of services in addition to products, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. 6 The loss of key personnel or difficulties recruiting and retaining qualified personnel could jeopardize the Company’s ability to meet its growth targets. The success of the Company’s efforts to grow its business depends on the contributions and abilities of key executive and operating officers and other personnel. We must continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and operating personnel sufficient to maintain its current business and support its projected growth. A shortage or loss of these key employees might jeopardize the Company’s ability to meet its growth targets. If we are unable to protect our trade secrets, our financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We rely upon a combination of nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements and trade secret, copyright, and trademark laws to protect our proprietary rights and the proprietary rights of third parties from whom we license intellectual property. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and limit distribution of proprietary information. However, we cannot assure that the steps taken in this regard will be adequate to deter misappropriation of proprietary information or that we will be able to detect unauthorized use and take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. We also are subject to the risk of litigation alleging infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. Any such claims could require us to spend significant sums in litigation, pay damages, develop non-infringing intellectual property, or acquire licenses to the intellectual property that is the subject of the alleged infringement. Our inability or failure to establish rights or to protect our rights may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our dependence on third party licenses could have adverse affects. We rely on certain software, technology and content that we license or have licensed from third parties, including software, technology and content that is integrated with internally developed software and used in our products to perform key functions. These third-party licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. Also, the licensed software, technology and content may not be appropriately supported, maintained or enhanced by the licensors such that the license would not continue to provide the necessary commercial benefits to us. In addition, we may not be able to license additional software, technology and content on terms advantageous to us. The loss of or inability to obtain or replace licenses to, or inability to support, maintain and enhance, any of such licensed software, could result in increased costs, including the expense of internally developing the required software, technology and/or content, as well as delays or reductions in product shipments. In certain parts of our managed services business we utilize software obtained as open-source. Such software is supported through various informal developer communities and may be more susceptible to internal vulnerabilities than commercial grade products. In the event that any of these software products would need to be replaced by an equivalent commercial product (because of discovered flaws or difficulty in obtaining support), we could incur significant costs associated with licensing equivalent commercial products, possibly rendering the services provided to clients based on these products unprofitable. We have and may continue to have fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. Our quarterly operating results have and, in the future, may fluctuate significantly, depending on a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Factors that may affect our quarterly results include: • changes in the level of our operating expenses; • the demand for our products and services; • timing and amount of vendor and manufacturer incentive programs; • the size, timing and timely fulfillment of orders for our products and services; • the financial impact of and possible business interruptions caused by restructuring efforts; • the level of product, price and service competition; • changes in our sales incentive strategy, as well as sales personnel changes; • the timing and impact of acquisitions; and • general economic conditions and economic conditions specific to the IT market. Our operating expenses and capital expenditures are expected to be based in large part on our expectations of future revenues. Therefore, if revenue levels are below expectations, operating results are likely to be adversely affected. Operating results may be disproportionately affected negatively by an unanticipated decline in revenue for a particular quarter because a relatively small amount of our expenses will vary with our revenue in the short term. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not and will not necessarily be meaningful and should not be relied upon as any indication of future performance. 7 MTM may be delisted by NASDAQ which could affect the ability to trade MTM stock, and which may be deemed an event of default pursuant to our credit arrangements. Our common stock (“Common Stock”) currently trades on The NASDAQ Capital Market (“NASDAQ”). In order for our Common Stock to continue to be quoted on NASDAQ, it must satisfy certain listing maintenance standards of the NASDAQ. On November 12, 2007, we received a notice from the Listing Qualifications Staff of The NASDAQ Stock Market stating that for the last 30 consecutive business days, the bid price of our Common Stock had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued inclusion under NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(4). Pursuant to NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(8)(D), we were provided 180 calendar days or until May 12, 2008 to regain compliance. On May 14, 2008, we received notice from The NASDAQ Stock Market stating that our Common Stock will be delisted from NASDAQ due to our failure to evidence a closing bid price of $1.00 per share, prior to the expiration of the 180 day grace period. The notice from NASDAQ provided that our Common Stock will be delisted from NASDAQ at the opening of business on May 23, 2008, unless we request a hearing before the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel. We have requested such a hearing to seek continued listing of our Common Stock on NASDAQ. Our hearing request stays the delisting of our Common Stock until the Listing Qualifications Panel renders a determination after the hearing. The hearing is scheduled for July 10, 2008. In April 2008, the Independent Committee of the Board of Directors and the Board of Directors authorized a reverse stock split of our Common Stock at a reverse stock split ratio of 1-for-15 (the “Reverse Stock Split”), At the hearing, we will request an opportunity to implement the Reverse Stock Split and allow the post-split shares to trade for a sufficient time to meet the $1.00 minimum bid price listing standard. In order to demonstrate compliance with the NASDAQ bid price requirement, we will be required to evidence a closing bid price of at least $1.00 per share for a minimum of ten consecutive business days (NASDAQ in its discretion may monitor the bid price for as long as twenty business days). There can be no assurance that the Listing Qualification Panel will grant our request for continued listing on NASDAQ. In the event the NASDAQ panel determines not to grant our request or in the event the reverse stock split fails to bring us back into compliance with the $1.00 per share bid price requirement, our Common Stock would be delisted from NASDAQ and our Common Stock would trade on the OTC Bulletin Board or in the “pink sheets” maintained by the National Quotation Bureau, Inc. Such alternative markets are generally considered to be less efficient than, and not as liquid as NASDAQ. Consequently, broker-dealers may be less willing or able to sell and/or make a market in MTM common stock. Additionally, an investor would find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations for the price of, MTM common stock. As a result of a delisting, it may become more difficult for MTM to raise funds through the sale of its securities. A delisting of our common stock may be deemed an event of default or breach of a covenant by our lenders pursuant to our facilities and credit agreements which could lead to the termination of these agreements and an acceleration of our outstanding debt. The acceleration of our debt would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity. Delisting could also adversely affect MTM’s ability to obtain financing for the continuation of its operations or to use its common stock in acquisitions. Delisting could result in the loss of confidence by suppliers, customers and employees. Risks Relating to our Reverse Stock Split If the Reverse Stock Split is implemented, the resulting per share price may not attract institutional investors; and any decline in share price would be a greater percentage decline than prior to the Reverse Stock Split. While our Board of Directors believes that a higher stock price may help generate investor interest in our Common Stock, the Reverse Stock Split may not result in a stock price that will attract institutional investors or investment funds or satisfy the investing guidelines of institutional investors or investment funds. If the Reverse Split is implemented and the market price of our Common Stock declines, the percentage decline may be greater than would occur in the absence of the split. The market price of our Common Stock is also based on the Company’s performance and other factors, which are unrelated to the number of shares of Common Stock issued. Our total market capitalization immediately after the proposed Reverse Stock Split may be lower than immediately before the proposed Reverse Stock Split. There are numerous factors and contingencies that could affect our stock price following the proposed Reverse Stock Split, including the status of the market for our stock at the time, our reported results of operations in future periods, and general economic, market and industry conditions. Accordingly, the market price of our Common Stock may not be sustainable at the bid price following the Reverse Stock Split. If the market price of our Common Stock declines after the Reverse Stock Split, our total market capitalization (the aggregate value of all of our Common Stock at the then existing market price) after the Reverse Stock Split will be lower than before the Reverse Stock Split. The Reverse Stock Split may result in some stockholders owning “odd lots” that may be more difficult to sell. The Reverse Stock Split may result in some stockholders owning “odd lots” of less than 100 shares of our Common Stock on a post-split basis. Odd lots may be more difficult to sell, or require greater transaction costs per share to sell, than shares in “board lots” of even multiples of 100 shares. Risks Relating to Ownership of our Common Stock Pequot can be deemed our controlling shareholder and Pequot’s interests may not be the same as our other shareholders. Pequot currently holds approximately 57% of the voting power of our outstanding securities and has the right to acquire up to 60% of our voting securities. Pequot also has the power to nominate two directors to our Board of Directors. Pequot will receive additional voting power when we pay dividends on outstanding Series A Preferred Stock in the form of additional shares of Series A Preferred Stock. As a result, Pequot may be deemed in control because Pequot is in a position to approve, and the approval of Pequot is effectively required to approve, any transaction requiring approval of shareholders. These transactions could include mergers, consolidations, dissolutions or sales of assets. These transactions could benefit Pequot at the expense of our other shareholders or benefit Pequot disproportionately when compared to our other shareholders. 8 There is significant potential volatility in our stock price. The market for our common stock is highly volatile and we have a limited average daily trading volume when compared to the total number of shares of our common stock outstanding. Consequently, even moderate selling pressure on our common stock could have a depressive effect on its market price. We may issue substantial amounts of additional shares of our common and preferred stock without shareholder approval, which could dilute the equity interests of our shareholders. As of May 31, 2008, we had outstanding an aggregate of 13,462,514 shares of our common stock and an aggregate of 30,843,626 shares of Series A Preferred Stock which are subsequently convertible into a total of 45,012,649 shares of our common stock. As of May 31, 2008, the Investors hold warrants to purchase 6,566,093 shares of our common stock and 392,157 shares of preferred stock. We also have an additional 9,436,374 shares of Series A Preferred Stock authorized but unissued, all of which shares are not reserved for specific purposes, other than pursuant to the anti-dilution provisions of the Series A Preferred Stock or for issuance in lieu of cash dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock, an additional 7,720,000 shares of serial preferred that are not designated as Series A Preferred Stock and an additional (a) 5,747,457 shares of our common stock issuable upon the exercise of stock options or restricted stock units granted or available for grant under our various stock plans and (b) aggregate of approximately 1,400,000 shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of other warrants previously granted and outstanding, all as of May 31, 2008. All of such shares may be issued without any action or approval by our shareholders, except as may be limited under NASDAQ Marketplace Rules. Any shares issued by us in the future would further dilute the percentage ownership held by our shareholders. 