Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business We have incurred losses in our last 3 fiscal years and our losses may continue. We incurred a net loss of approximately $32.0 million for our fiscal year ended March 31, 2007, $8.5 million for our fiscal year ended March 31, 2006 and $8.6 million for our fiscal year ended March 31, 2005. Our net losses may continue and our ability to achieve and sustain profitability will be impacted by the following: • Our access to sufficient working capital and vendor credit to fund our sales and other operating activities. • Our revenue may not increase or even remain at its current level. • Our operating expenses may increase as we continue to develop our business. If our expenses increase more rapidly than our revenue, or if revenue and expense levels remain the same, we may never become profitable. • If we fail to reach profitability or sustain or grow our profits within the time frame expected by investors, the market price of our common stock may be adversely impacted. • Our ability to increase our Access, IP Telephony, Networking solution revenue and our Managed Services revenue to improve overall service margins, as well as our ability to leverage our current customer base and sell to selected industry segments or industry “verticals.” • Our ability to keep pace with rapidly changing technology and frequent introductions of new IT products, services, and product and service enhancements, and our ability to fulfill increasingly sophisticated client requirements. • Our ability to attract, train, retain and motivate qualified IT, sales and senior management personnel in a market place where competition for qualified personnel is significant. There is a shortage of qualified personnel in these fields and we compete with other companies for this limited pool of IT professionals and sales and senior management personnel. We require access to significant working capital and vendor credit to fund our day-to-day operations. Our failure to comply with the financial and other covenants under our working capital facility and other credit arrangements could lead to a termination of those agreements and an acceleration of our outstanding debt. We require access to significant working capital and vendor credit to fund our day-to-day operations, particularly at the end of our fiscal quarters when demand for our products and services increases substantially. Our secured revolving credit facility (the “CIT Facility”) with CIT Group/Business Credit, Inc. (“CIT”), our amended and restated loan and security agreement (the “New Textron Facility”) with Textron Financial Corporation (“Textron”), and our secured credit agreement (the “Columbia Facility”) with Columbia Partners, L.L.C. Investment Management, (“Columbia Partners”) and National Electric Benefit Fund, (the “Lender”) contain a number of financial and other covenants, including with respect to the CIT Facility and the New Textron Facility minimum consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, consolidated fixed charge coverage ratios, minimum consolidated liquidity and maximum consolidated fixed charges and with respect to the Columbia Facility consolidated senior leverage ratios and consolidated fixed charge coverage ratios. A breach of these financial or other covenants, unless waived, would be a default under each facility. Upon an event of default, each of these lenders may terminate their respective facilities and/or declare all amounts outstanding under such facilities immediately due and payable and exercise other remedies including foreclosure of the security for the obligations under such facilities. The acceleration of our debt could have a material adverse effect on our financial 7 condition and liquidity. Additionally, the amount of working capital available to us under the CIT Facility is dependent upon the amount and quality of our accounts receivable. Significant defaults, or payment delays, of our accounts receivable could materially adversely affect our borrowing base and our access to sufficient working capital. The Company received a waiver letter in November 2006 from Columbia Partners which included a waiver of the consolidated senior leverage ratio and the consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio through and including the four fiscal quarters ending March 31, 2008. Our vendor agreements and lines of credit are generally terminable by the vendor at any time. Any significant termination of these arrangements could adversely impact our ability to deliver our IT solutions and reduce our working capital availability. We may need additional funds to execute our internal growth programs which, if available, could result in an increase in our interest expense or dilution of your shareholdings. If these funds are not available, our business could be adversely affected. We may raise funds through public or private debt or equity financing. If funds are raised through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of our then current shareholders may be reduced and such securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of debt securities, such securities could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock and the terms of such debt could impose restrictions on our operations. If additional funds become necessary, additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to continue to fund our growth. We are subject to substantial competition which could adversely affect our operating results. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive with respect to performance, quality and price. In our professional services business our competition ranges from small, specialty integrators, to other service providers of comparable size and profile to us, as well as large national and global professional services firms and integrators. Our smaller competitors generally are highly focused on their immediate market segment and can respond more quickly to changes in client needs. Our larger competitors generally have greater financial resources and may be able to compete more effectively than we can on prices and payment terms offered to potential clients. This competition impacts our ability to acquire and retain clients and reduces the prices we can charge for our offering. In addition, the computer and IT products and services industries have each experienced a significant amount of consolidation through mergers and acquisitions. We also compete with manufacturers, including those serving as our vendors, which market through direct sales forces and distributors. More aggressive competition by principal manufacturers of computer and IT products, such as offering a full range of services in addition to products, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. The failure to maintain our status as an authorized reseller/service provider of IT products could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. We are materially dependent on our continued status as an approved reseller of IT products and our continued authorization as an IT service provider. We would be unable to provide the range of products and services we currently offer, including warranty services, without such authorization. Our resale agreements with manufacturers generally are terminable by manufacturers on short notice. The sales of products from our three largest suppliers accounted for 26%, 14% and 11% of all product sales for the year ended March 31, 2007. The loss of one or more of such authorizations could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, our professional services revenues depend in large part on our accreditations with other vendors such as Citrix, Cisco, and Microsoft. Most of our major vendors require that we maintain specifically trained and accredited staff at each of our offices in order to resell and provide services associated with such products. Furthermore, certain such vendors require that we make annual purchases of their products for use in our labs and for marketing purposes. Each vendor independently determines these requirements for those organizations which it authorizes to provide services in connection with their products. If these requirements should become substantially more burdensome, they could affect our business in either of two ways: (1) we would elect not to continue our accreditation with such vendor and forgo the revenues associated with the resale of such vendor’s products and associated services, or (2) we would incur the additional expense associated with additional staff 8 training or equipment purchase requirements. In either case, this could have a negative impact on our operating results. The loss of key personnel or difficulties recruiting and retaining qualified personnel could jeopardize the Company’s ability to meet its growth targets. The success of the Company’s efforts to grow its business depends on the contributions and abilities of key executive and operating officers and other personnel. We must continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and operating personnel sufficient to maintain its current business and support its projected growth. A shortage or loss of these key employees might jeopardize the Company’s ability to meet its growth targets. The success of our business depends on the continued integration of acquisitions. We completed several acquisitions and may make additional acquisitions of businesses as part of our long-term strategic growth strategy. Our future performance will depend in large part on our ability to integrate those businesses with our existing operations successfully and to do so profitably. To integrate acquired businesses, it is often necessary or desirable to accomplish one or more of the following: • consolidate their billing and accounting systems into our systems and implement financial and other control systems; • relocate the servers and other equipment of acquired companies to one of our facilities; • migrate the operations of acquired companies onto our technology platforms; • integrate the client accounts of acquired companies into our client service system; • integrate the service offerings of acquired companies into our service offerings; and • identify resellers and referral partners of the services of acquired companies and migrate them to our business partner program. We may not be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses with existing operations without substantial costs, delays or other problems. As we integrate acquired businesses: • we may lose clients of acquired companies due to difficulties during the integration process; • we may not be able to bill clients of the acquired companies accurately due to potential deficiencies in the internal controls of the acquired companies, such as inadequate back-office systems of the acquired companies and potential difficulties in migrating records onto our own systems; • we may experience difficulty in collecting bills rendered by acquired companies due to inaccurate record keeping of the acquired companies; • key employees of the acquired companies whom we wish to retain may resign; • management’s attention and resources could be diverted from our ongoing business concerns; • we may not be able to integrate newly acquired technologies with our existing technologies; and • we may not be able to train, retain and motivate executives and employees of the acquired companies. If we are unable to protect our trade secrets, our financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We rely upon a combination of nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements and trade secret, copyright, and trademark laws to protect our proprietary rights and the proprietary rights of third parties from whom we license intellectual property. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and limit distribution of proprietary information. However, we cannot assure that the steps taken in this regard will be adequate to deter misappropriation of proprietary information or that we will be able to detect unauthorized use and take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. We also are subject to the risk of litigation alleging infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. Any such claims could require us to spend significant sums in litigation, pay damages, develop non-infringing intellectual property, or acquire licenses to the intellectual property that is the 9 subject of the alleged infringement. Our inability or failure to establish rights or to protect our rights may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our dependence on third party licenses could have adverse affects. We rely on certain software, technology and content that we license or have licensed from third parties, including software, technology and content that is integrated with internally developed software and used in our products to perform key functions. These third-party licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. Also, the licensed software, technology and content may not be appropriately supported, maintained or enhanced by the licensors such that the license would not continue to provide the necessary commercial benefits to us. In addition, we may not be able to license additional software, technology and content on terms advantageous to us. The loss of or inability to obtain or replace licenses to, or inability to support, maintain and enhance, any of such licensed software, could result in increased costs, including the expense of internally developing the required software, technology and/or content, as well as delays or reductions in product shipments. In certain parts of our managed services business we utilize software obtained as open-source. Such software is supported through various informal developer communities and may be more susceptible to internal vulnerabilities than commercial grade products. In the event that any of these software products would need to be replaced by an equivalent commercial product (because of discovered flaws or difficulty in obtaining support), we could incur significant costs associated with licensing equivalent commercial products, possibly rendering the services provided to clients based on these products unprofitable. We have and may continue to have fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. Our quarterly operating results have and, in the future, may fluctuate significantly, depending on a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Factors that may affect our quarterly results include: • the timing and impact of acquisitions; • the demand for our products and services; • timing and amount of vendor and manufacturer incentive programs; • the size, timing and timely fulfillment of orders for our products and services; • the level of product, price and service competition; • changes in our sales incentive strategy, as well as sales personnel changes; and • general economic conditions and economic conditions specific to the IT market. Our operating expenses and capital expenditures are expected to be based in large part on our expectations of future revenues. Therefore, if revenue levels are below expectations, operating results are likely to be adversely affected. Operating results may be disproportionately affected negatively by an unanticipated decline in revenue for a particular quarter because a relatively small amount of our expenses will vary with our revenue in the short term. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not and will not necessarily be meaningful and should not be relied upon as any indication of future performance. Any future acquisitions may entail significant risks. We may pursue opportunities to expand our business through the acquisition of selected companies in targeted markets. The acquisition candidates we review can be large, and their acquisition by us could have a significant and lasting impact on our business. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • adverse effects on our operating results; • an inability to integrate acquired businesses; • unanticipated liabilities and expenses; 10 • costs associated with incomplete acquisitions; • expenses, delays and difficulties of integrating acquired companies into our existing organization; • dilution of the interest of existing shareholders if we issue our securities in making acquisitions or if we sell our securities in order to raise cash for acquisitions; • diversion of management’s attention; • expenses of amortizing the acquired companies’ intangible assets; • increases in our expenses in order to advertise and promote acquired companies; and • expenses of any undisclosed or potential legal liabilities of an acquired company. In addition, we cannot guarantee that we will realize the benefits or strategic objectives we are seeking to obtain by acquiring any particular company and any acquired company could significantly underperform relative to our expectations. In particular, acquired companies often experience modest revenue declines immediately following the closing of their acquisition. Risks Involving Our Common Stock Pequot can be deemed our controlling shareholder and Pequot’s interests may not be the same as our other shareholders. Pequot currently holds approximately 53% of the voting power of our outstanding securities and has the right to acquire up to 57% of our voting securities. Pequot also has the power to nominate two directors to our Board of Directors. Pequot also may receive additional voting power if we were to elect to pay dividends on outstanding Series A Preferred Stock in the form of additional shares of Series A Preferred Stock. As a result, Pequot may be deemed in control because Pequot is in a position to approve, and the approval of Pequot is effectively required to approve any transaction requiring approval of shareholders. These transactions could include mergers, consolidations, dissolutions or sales of assets. These transactions could benefit Pequot at the expense of our other shareholders or benefit Pequot disproportionately when compared to our other shareholders. There is significant potential volatility in our stock price. The market for our common stock is highly volatile and we have a limited average daily trading volume when compared to the total number of shares of our common stock outstanding. Consequently, even moderate selling pressure on our common stock could have a depressive effect on its market price. We have no history of paying dividends. We have never paid any cash dividends on our common stock and we do not anticipate paying any dividends in the foreseeable future. In addition, our ability to pay dividends to the holders of our common stock is limited under our certificate of incorporation and secured lending facilities. We may issue substantial amounts of additional shares of our common stock without shareholder approval, which could dilute the equity interests of our shareholders. As of June 20, 2007, we had outstanding an aggregate of 13,225,837 shares of our common stock and an aggregate of 27,967,857 shares of Series A Preferred Stock which are subsequently convertible into a total of 30,262,971 shares of our common stock. The Investors currently hold warrants to purchase 5,673,995 shares of our common stock. We also have an additional 10,532,143 shares of Series A Preferred Stock authorized but unissued, all of which shares are not reserved for specific purposes, other than pursuant to the anti-dilution provisions of the Series A Preferred Stock or for issuance in lieu of cash dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock, an additional 1,500,000 shares of serial preferred that are not designated as Series A Preferred Stock and an additional (a) 4,386,450 shares of our common stock issuable upon the exercise of stock options or restricted stock units granted or available for grant under our various stock plans and (b) aggregate of approximately 700,000 shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of other warrants previously granted and outstanding, all as of June 20, 2007. All of such shares may be issued without any action or approval by our 11 shareholders, except as may be limited under NASDAQ Marketplace Rules. Any shares issued by us in the future would further dilute the percentage ownership held by our shareholders. 