ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FINANCIAL CONDITION OR BUSINESS As discussed under the caption, “Cautionary Statement Pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995” in Item 7, certain statements in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere in this report that are not related to historical results are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements present our expectations or forecasts of future events. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They frequently are accompanied by words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe” and other words and terms of similar meaning. Actual results may differ materially from those projected or implied in the forward-looking statements. Subsequent written and oral forward looking statements attributable to us or to persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements and risk factors set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other reports filed by us with the SEC. We disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS General We have senior and subordinated debt that matures during 2008 and 2010. As of December 31, 2007 we had senior and subordinated debt in the aggregate principal amount of approximately $32.0 million that matures through 2010; of the $32 million approximately $18.0 million was due and owing to Laurus Master Fund, Ltd. (“Laurus”) and is secured by substantially all of our assets. The amount owed to Laurus comes due on April 30, 2008. An additional $13.1 million in subordinated, unsecured debt is due by December 2008 under convertible notes issued by us in connection with our acquisition of MedUnite in December 2002. Although a portion of the proceeds from the NPPN sale in February 2008 were used to reduce Laurus debt, we currently do not have the resources to repay in full the Laurus debt and the convertible notes when they mature in December 2008. We are currently in discussions with our lenders and exploring alternatives to restructure or refinance this debt, but if we are unable to restructure or obtain additional funding to repay or refinance our senior and subordinated debt prior to maturity, the lenders could foreclose and take certain other action against us. The effect on our operations and stock price could be significantly negative and we may be unable to continue as a going concern. Such an event would negatively impact our ability to operate as a solvent and on-going concern. We incurred net losses in 2005, 2006 and 2007. We may not be able to generate positive earnings in the future and this could have a detrimental effect on the market price of our stock. In the last three years, we have incurred substantial losses, including losses of $105.3 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, $6.6 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, and $36.8 million in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. As of December 31, 2006, and December 31, 2007, we had accumulated deficits of $216.0 million, and $252.8 million, respectively. Continued shortfalls could deplete our cash reserves and availability via our credit facility, making it difficult for us to obtain credit at a favorable rate or to continue investing in infrastructure we need to compete in the future. Continued shortfalls may also cause our share price to decline. Our auditors have issued a going concern opinion. This means we may not be able to achieve our objectives and may have to suspend or cease operations. Our independent public accounting firm has issued a going concern opinion April 15, 2008, with respect to our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2007. If we cannot raise additional capital, refinance certain debt, or generate sufficient revenues, or sufficiently reduce costs, to operate profitably, we may have to suspend or cease operations or significantly dilute our stockholders’ equity holdings. Management changes may disrupt our operations and we may not be able to retain key personnel or replace them when they leave. Although we have entered into employment agreements with many of our senior executives, the loss of any of their services could cause our business to suffer. Our success is also dependent upon our ability to hire and retain qualified operations, development and other personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in the healthcare information services industry is intense and we cannot assure that we will be able to hire or retain the personnel necessary for our planned operations. On February 28, 2008 John Lettko resigned as Chief Executive Officer and Director. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate. We have purchased directors’ and officers’, casualty, property and general liability coverage which management believes is adequate for our requirements. However, should we incur a loss that exceeds our coverage, it could negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows. An inability to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, could have an adverse impact on our stock price. Our certification that we have sufficient internal controls in place today is no guarantee that we will maintain those controls in the future or that those controls will be effective in ensuring the accuracy of our financial reports. An inability to maintain effective controls or our receiving an adverse or qualified opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls from our independent registered public accounting firm in the future could have a negative impact on our stock price. 7 Table of Contents Transaction Services Segment Changes that reduce payer compensation for electronic claims may reduce our revenue and margins. Over the last few years, some payers have reduced their rebate rate paid to companies which process claims, and some have elected to stop offering rebates. If this trend continues, we will be forced to shift the cost of these claims from the payers to the submitting providers. If we are not successful in shifting this revenue burden to our submitting providers, our revenue will be reduced and our margins will also be negatively affected. As electronic transaction processing penetrates the healthcare industry more extensively, we will face increasing pressure to reduce our prices which may cause us to no longer be competitive as a result of potential declining margins. As electronic transaction processing extensively penetrates the healthcare market and/or becomes highly standardized, competition among electronic transaction processors will focus increasingly on pricing. This competition is putting intense pressure on us to reduce our pricing in order to retain market share. If we are unable to reduce our costs sufficiently to offset declines in our prices, or if we are unable to introduce new, innovative service offerings with higher margins, our results of operations could decline. Consolidation in the healthcare industry may give our customers greater bargaining power and cause us to reduce our prices. Many healthcare industry participants are consolidating to create integrated healthcare delivery systems with greater market power. As provider networks and managed care organizations consolidate, competition to provide products and services such as those we provide will become more intense and the importance of establishing and maintaining relationships with key industry participants will become greater. These industry participants may try to use their market power to negotiate price reductions for our products and services. If we are forced to reduce prices, revenues and cash flows could decrease. Our business and future success may depend on our ability to cross-sell our products and services. Our ability to generate revenue and growth partly depends on our ability to cross-sell our products and services to our existing customers and new customers resulting from acquisitions. Our ability to successfully cross-sell our products and services is one of the most significant factors influencing our growth. We may not be successful in cross-selling our products and services and our failure in this area would likely have an adverse effect on our business. We depend on electronic connections to insurance companies and other payers, and if we lose these electronic connections, our service offerings would be limited and less desirable to healthcare providers. Our business depends upon a substantial number of payers, such as insurance companies, Medicare and Medicaid agencies, to which we have electronic connections. These connections may either be made directly or through a clearinghouse. We may not be able to maintain our links with all these payers on terms satisfactory to us. In addition, we cannot assure that we will be able to develop new connections, either directly or through clearinghouses, on satisfactory terms. Lastly, some third-party payers provide systems directly to healthcare providers, bypassing us and other third-party processors. Our failure to maintain existing connections with payers and clearinghouses or to develop new connections as circumstances warrant, or an increase in the utilization of direct links between providers and payers, could cause our electronic transaction processing system to be less desirable to healthcare participants, thus slowing down or reducing the number of transactions that we process and for which we are paid. We have important business relationships with other companies to market and sell some of our clinical and financial products and services. If these companies terminate their relationships with us, or are less successful in the future, we will need to add this emphasis internally, which may divert our efforts and resources from other projects. For the marketing and sale of some of our products and services, we entered into important business relationships with physician office management information system vendors, with electronic medical record vendors and with other distribution partners. These business relationships, which have required and may continue to require significant commitments of effort and resources, are an important part of our distribution strategy and generate substantial recurring revenue. Most of these relationships are on a non-exclusive basis. We may not be able to continue our relationships with our electronic commerce partners and other strategic partners, most of whom have significantly greater financial and marketing resources than we do. Also, our arrangements with some of our partners involve negotiated payments to the partners based on percentages of revenues generated by the partners. If the payments prove to be too high, we may be unable to realize acceptable margins, but if the payments prove to be too low, the partners may not be motivated to produce a sufficient volume of revenues. The success of our important business relationships will depend in part upon our partners’ own competitive, marketing and strategic considerations, including the relative advantages of alternative products being developed and marketed by such partners. If any such partners are unsuccessful in marketing our products, we will need to place added emphasis on these aspects of our business internally, which may divert our planned efforts and resources from other projects. A significant amount of the revenues in our Transaction Services segment is from one customer. Loss of this relationship may adversely affect our profitability. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, approximately 7%, 6%, and 8%, respectively, of consolidated revenues and 8%, 7%, and 10%, respectively, of transaction services revenue were from Per-Se Technologies. The adoption of electronic processing of clinical transactions in the healthcare industry is proceeding slowly; thus, the future of our business could be uncertain and this may have an adverse impact on our operations. Our strategy anticipates that electronic processing of clinical healthcare transactions, including transactions involving prescriptions and laboratory results, will become more widespread and that providers and third-party institutions increasingly will use electronic transaction processing networks for the processing and transmission of data. The rate at which providers adopt the use of electronic transmission of clinical healthcare transactions (and, in particular, the use of the Internet to transmit them) continues to be slow and the continued or accelerated conversion from paper-based transaction processing to electronic transaction processing in the healthcare industry, using proprietary healthcare management systems or the Internet, may not occur. An error by us in the process of providing clinical connectivity or transmitting prescription and laboratory data could result in substantial injury to a patient, and our liability insurance may not be adequate in a catastrophic situation, adversely impacting our business or operations. 8 Table of Contents Our business exposes us to potential liability risks that are, unavoidably, part of the healthcare electronic transaction processing industry. Since some of our products and services have historically related to the prescribing and refilling of drugs through our pharmacy business and the transmission of medical laboratory results, an error by any party in the process could result in substantial injury to a patient. As a result, our liability risks are significant. Our insurance may be insufficient to cover potential claims arising out of our current or future operations, and sufficient coverage may not be available in the future at a reasonable cost. A partially or completely uninsured claim against us, if successful and of sufficient magnitude could have significant adverse financial consequences. Our inability to obtain insurance of the type and in the amounts required could generally impair our ability to market our products and services. Our businesses have many competitors. We face competition from many healthcare information systems companies and other technology companies. Many of our competitors are significantly larger, have greater financial resources than we do and have established reputations for success in implementing healthcare electronic transaction processing systems. Other companies have targeted this industry for growth, including the development of new technologies utilizing Internet-based systems. We may not be able to compete successfully with these companies and these or other competitors may commercialize products, services or technologies that render our products, services or technologies obsolete or less marketable. 9 Table of Contents Our PPO accounts receivable are subject to adjustment. We generally record revenue for our services when the services are performed, less amounts reserved for claim reversals and bad debts. The estimates for claim reversals and bad debts are based on judgment and historical experience. Many of the claims are not fully adjudicated for over 90 days. Although we have not experienced this, to the extent that actual claim reversals and bad debts associated with our business exceed the amounts reserved, such difference could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. During the period ended June 30, 2007, the Company wrote off approximately $1.7 million of accounts receivable from certain customers that management determined were uncollectible. The NPPN Stock Purchase Agreement governing the sale of our NPPN business may expose us to contingent liabilities. Under the Stock Purchase Agreement, we indemnify Coalition America (“Coalition” or “CAI”) for the breach or violation of any representation, warranty or covenant made by us in the Stock Purchase Agreement, subject to certain limitations. Significant indemnification claims by CAI could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Claims for indemnification for breach of certain covenants, agreements or other matters agreed to by us in the Stock Purchase Agreement are not subject to the $3.0 million held in escrow. Laboratory Communication Services Segment: Our Laboratory Communication Services Segment has a high customer concentration. For the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 and 2005, approximately 6%, 8% and 7% of consolidated revenues, and 41%, 45% and 50% of Laboratory Communication segment revenues, respectively were from a single customer for the sale, lease, and service of communication devices. The potential loss of this customer would materially affect the Company’s Laboratory Communication Services’ operating results as well as our consolidated operating results. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY Government regulation and new legislation may have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. The healthcare industry is highly regulated and is subject to extensive and frequently changing federal and state healthcare laws. Several state and federal laws, including without limitation, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”), govern the collection, dissemination, use and confidentiality of patient healthcare information. The privacy regulations, in particular, are broad in scope, and will require constant vigilance for ongoing compliance. We cannot guarantee that we will be in compliance in the future. HIPAA also mandates the use of standard transactions, standard provider identifiers, security requirements and other provisions for electronic healthcare claims transactions. Approximately 12% of our inbound transactions from our provider customers are received in a legacy format and are translated, by us, on behalf of these customers. Our contracts with our customers, strategic partners, providers, payers and other healthcare entities mandate, or will mandate, that our products and services be HIPAA compliant. If our products and services are not in compliance with HIPAA or any other alternative guidelines issued by the CMS on an ongoing basis, our customers, strategic partners and other healthcare providers with whom we contract may terminate their contracts with us or sue us for breach of contract. Additionally, our revenues may be reduced as some of our non-compliant payer partners may be forced to accept paper based transactions for which we may not be the recipient for processing. We may be subject to penalties for non-compliance by federal and state governments, and patients who believe that their confidential health information has been misused or improperly disclosed may have certain causes of actions under applicable state privacy or HIPAA-like laws against us, our partners or customers. We, and all companies, are responsible for collecting and sending NPI numbers in compliance with the Federal Register mandate. The original compliance date was May 23, 2007; however, CMS declared a contingency period which revised the compliance date to May 23, 2008. We may not be able to maintain compliance with HIPAA standards for transaction formats, provider identifiers and security. Any failure to be in compliance could result in regulatory penalties assessed against us, weaken demand for our affected services and may have an adverse impact on our business and operations. We are dependent on the growth of the Internet and electronic healthcare information markets. Many of our products and services are geared toward the Internet and electronic healthcare information markets. The perceived difficulty of securely transmitting confidential information has been a significant barrier to conducting e-commerce and engaging in sensitive communications over the Internet. Our strategy relies, in part, on the use of the internet to transmit confidential information. Any well-publicized compromise of Internet security may deter providers from using the Internet to conduct transactions that involve transmitting confidential healthcare information and this may result in significantly lower revenues and operating results. RISKS RELATED TO OUR TECHNOLOGY Evolving industry standards and rapid technological changes could result in our products becoming obsolete or no longer in demand. Rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and the frequent introduction of new and enhanced Internet-based services characterize the market for our products and services. Our success will depend upon our ability to enhance our existing services, introduce new products and services on a timely and cost-effective basis to meet evolving customer requirements, achieve market acceptance for new products or services and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. We may not be able to respond effectively to technological changes or new industry standards. Moreover, other companies may develop competitive products or services that may cause our products and 10 Table of Contents services to become obsolete or no longer be in demand. We depend on uninterrupted computer access for our customers. Any prolonged interruptions in operations could cause customers to seek alternative providers of our services. Our success is dependent on our ability to deliver high-quality, uninterrupted computer networking and hosting, requiring us to protect our computer equipment and the information stored on servers against damage by fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failures, unauthorized intrusion and other catastrophic events. We operate production networks in Norcross, Georgia and Santa Ana, California. Any damage or failure resulting in prolonged interruptions in our operations could cause our customers to seek alternative providers of our services. In particular, a system failure, if prolonged, could result in lost revenues, loss of customers and damage to our reputation, any of which could cause our business to materially suffer. While we carry property and business interruption insurance to cover operations, the coverage may not be adequate to compensate us for losses that may occur. Computer network systems like ours could suffer security and privacy breaches that could harm our customers and us. We currently operate servers and maintain connectivity from multiple facilities. Our infrastructure may be vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptive problems caused by customers or others. Computer viruses, break-ins or other security problems could lead to interruption, delays or cessation in service to our customers. These problems could also potentially jeopardize the security of confidential information stored in the computer systems of our customers, which may deter potential customers from doing business with us and give rise to possible liability to users whose security or privacy has been infringed. The security and privacy concerns of existing and potential customers may inhibit the growth of the healthcare information services industry, in general, and our customer base and business, in particular. A significant security breach could result in loss of customers, loss of revenues, damage to our reputation, direct damages, costs of repair and detection and other unplanned expenses. While we carry professional liability insurance to cover such breaches, the coverage may not be adequate to compensate us for losses that may occur. The protection of our intellectual property requires substantial resources. We rely largely on our own security systems and confidentiality procedures and nondisclosure agreements with employees, customers and certain vendors to maintain the confidentiality and security of our proprietary information, including our trade secrets and internally developed computer applications. If third parties gain unauthorized access to our information systems, or if anyone misappropriates our proprietary information, this may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are in the process of acquiring patent protection for our Phoenix technology and other proprietary technology; however, we have not traditionally sought patent protection for our technology. Trade-secret laws offer limited protection against third party development of competitive products or services. Because we lack the protection of registered copyrights for our internally-developed software and software applications, we may be vulnerable to misappropriation of our proprietary technology by third parties or competitors. The failure to adequately protect our technology could adversely affect our business. 11 Table of Contents We may be subject to infringement claims. As our competitors’ healthcare information systems increase in complexity and overall capabilities, and the functionality of these systems further overlap, we could be subject to claims that our technology infringes on the proprietary rights of third parties. These claims, even if without merit, could subject us to costly litigation and could require the resources, time and attention of our technical, legal and management personnel to defend. The failure to develop non-infringing technology or trade names, or the failure to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, could adversely affect our operations and revenues. If our ability to expand our network infrastructure is constrained, we could lose customers, and that loss could adversely affect our operating results. We must continue to expand and adapt our network and technology infrastructure to accommodate additional users, increased transaction volumes and changing customer requirements. We may not be able to accurately project the rate or timing of increases, if any, in the volume of transactions we process, reprice or otherwise service or be able to expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate such increases. We may be unable to expand or adapt our network infrastructure to meet additional demand or our customers’ changing needs on a timely basis, at a commercially reasonable cost or at all. Our current information systems, procedures and controls may not continue to support our operations while maintaining acceptable overall performance and may hinder our ability to exploit the market for healthcare applications and services. Service lapses could cause our users to switch to the services of our competitors. RISKS RELATED TO OUR STOCK We may issue additional shares that could adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. We currently have 16,217,085 shares of authorized but unissued Common Stock and 1,998,000 shares of authorized but unissued Preferred Stock. Certain events over which our shareholders have no control could result in the issuance of additional shares of our Common Stock which would dilute our shareholders’ ownership percentage in us and could adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. We may issue additional shares of Common Stock or Preferred Stock for many reasons including: . raising additional capital or financing acquisitions; . exercise, conversion, or exchange of outstanding options, warrants and shares of convertible preferred stock; . in lieu of cash payment of dividends; or . our articles of incorporation, as amended, authorize the issuance of up to 30,000,000 shares of Common Stock and 2,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our board of directors. Pursuant to our Articles of Incorporation, as amended, we may issue shares of our Common and Preferred Stock in the future that will dilute our existing shareholders without prior notice or approval of our shareholders. Additionally, our board of directors does not intend to solicit further approval from our shareholders prior to designating the rights, preferences or privileges of any such Preferred Stock, including, without limitation, rights as to dividends, conversion, voting, liquidation preference or redemption, which in each case may be superior to the rights of our Common Stock. The rights of the holders of any of our Common Stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any Preferred Stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of our Preferred Stock could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change of control and preventing holders of our Common Stock from realizing a premium on their shares. The trading price of our Common Stock may be volatile. The stock market, including the NASDAQ Stock Market, on which the shares of our Common Stock are listed, has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The market price of our Common Stock, as with many emerging healthcare and technology companies, is likely to be volatile and could continue to be susceptible to wide price fluctuations due to a number of internal and external factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: . quarterly variations in operating results and overall financial condition; . economic and political developments affecting the economy as a whole; 12 Table of Contents . our largest holder liquidating their position would likely serve to compress our share price; . short-selling programs; . the stock market’s perception of the healthcare technology industry as a whole; . changes in earnings estimates by analysts; . additions or departures of key personnel; and . sales of substantial numbers of shares of our Common Stock, or securities convertible into or exercisable for our Common Stock. Our Common Stock may be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market, which could negatively impact the price of our Common Stock and would constitute an event of default under our senior debt obligations. Our Common Stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. The listing standards of the NASDAQ Global Market provide, among other things, that a company may be delisted if the bid price of its stock drops below $1.00 for a period of 30 consecutive business days or if the market value of publicly held shares of that company drops below $15 million for a period of 30 consecutive days. Recently, our stock has traded near this $1.00 threshold and our market value of publicly held shares has dropped below $15 million. If we fail to comply with the listing standards applicable to issuers listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, our common stock may be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market. The delisting of our common stock could significantly affect the ability of investors to trade our securities and could significantly negatively affect the value and liquidity of our common stock. In addition, the delisting of our common stock would constitute an event of default under the Loan Agreement with Laurus and could also materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us or at all. Delisting from the NASDAQ Global Market could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by customers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. We do not plan on declaring or paying dividends on our Common Stock. We have never declared or paid a dividend on our Common Stock, nor do we have any plans to do so in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 13 Table of Contents 