ITEM 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, in addition to the information set forth elsewhere in this report, when evaluating our business, industry and capital structure. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that we may currently believe to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect us. Any of the following risks and uncertainties could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business Our results of operations and growth could be adversely affected if we lose existing contracts or fail to renew existing contracts on favorable terms. A significant portion of our growth historically has resulted from increases in the number of emergency and non-emergency transports under our existing contracts with municipalities, counties and fire districts to provide emergency and other services. Substantially all of our net revenue for fiscal year 2010 was generated under existing contracts. Our contracts generally range from three to five years in length. Most of our contracts are terminable by either party upon notice of as little as 30 days. Further, certain of our contracts expire during each fiscal period, and we may be required to seek renewal of certain of these contracts through a formal bidding process that often requires written responses to a Request for Proposal (“RFP”). Even if any of our contracts are renewed, a renewal contract may contain terms that are not as favorable to us as the terms of our current contract. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in retaining or renewing our existing contracts or that the loss or renewal terms of contracts would not have a material adverse effect on us. There is also no assurance that we will experience growth in the number of transports under our existing contracts. Our growth strategy involves significant risks, and if we are unable to manage them effectively, our business may be materially harmed. In addition to organic growth, the Company’s strategy includes growth through strategic business acquisitions. These growth plans may strain our financial resources. The Company competes for acquisition opportunities with other companies, some of which have significantly greater financial resources. Therefore, there is a risk that the Company may be unable to complete a particular acquisition that it determines to be important to the growth strategy because another company may be able to pay more for a potential acquisition candidate or may be able to use its financial resources to acquire a potential acquisition candidate before the Company is able to arrange the requisite financing for such acquisition. Even if the Company completes a desirable business acquisition on favorable terms, the Company may not be able to successfully integrate newly-acquired business operations into its existing business operations on a timely basis. The process of identifying, negotiating and closing acquisition transactions is a challenging, time-consuming and costly process, as is the process of integrating newly-acquired business operations. Accordingly, the acquisition process will require a significant amount of management attention and other administrative resources and could result in disruptions to the Company’s ongoing business operations. In addition, successful integration of acquired businesses requires the dedication of significant management resources that may temporarily detract attention from the Company’s and the acquired company’s day-to-day business. If management is not able to integrate the organization, operation and systems of an acquired business in a timely and efficient manner, the anticipated benefits of a completed acquisition may not be fully realized. We are subject to decreases in our revenue as a result of changes in payer mix. We are subject to risks related to changes in the mix of insured versus uninsured patients that receive our medical services. If our mix of uninsured patients to insured patients increases, we may be adversely affected because we have greater difficulty recovering our full fees for services rendered to uninsured patients. Our credit risk related to services provided to uninsured individuals is exacerbated because communities are required to provide emergency response services regardless of an individual’s ability to pay. We also believe uninsured patients are more likely to dial 911 to seek care for minor conditions because they frequently do not have a primary care physician with whom to consult. An increase in individuals utilizing our services that do not have an ability to pay could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The current economic downturn has resulted in rising unemployment, which may result in a higher number of uninsured individuals and individuals that do not have the ability to pay our standard rates. The cost of our services is funded substantially by government and private insurance programs. If this funding is reduced or becomes limited or unavailable to our customers, our business may be adversely impacted. The current economic downturn could result in increased budget pressures and reductions or re-allocations in government spending. Such budget pressures and reductions or other changes in spending may negatively impact 23 Table of Contents contract retention and renewal with governmental entities, and may also result in a reduction in Medicaid reimbursement and covered services in an attempt to contain Medicaid costs. Furthermore, as a result of the economic downturn, third-party payers, including Medicare, Medicaid and private health insurance providers are increasingly challenging amounts paid for healthcare-related services. We cannot assure you that reimbursement will be available or that payers’ reimbursement policies will not have a material adverse effect on our ability to provide our services on a profitable basis, if at all. We are in a highly competitive industry; if we do not compete effectively, we could lose business or fail to grow. The market for providing ambulance services to counties, municipalities, fire districts and hospitals and other healthcare providers is highly competitive. We compete to provide ambulance services with governmental entities, hospitals, local and volunteer and private providers, including national providers such as American Medical Response. In many communities, our primary competitor in providing ambulance service is the local fire department, which in many cases has traditionally acted as first responder during emergencies and has been able to expand its scope of services to include emergency ambulance transports. In order to compete successfully, we must make continuing investments in our fleet, facilities and operating systems. Some of our current competitors and certain potential competitors may have access to greater capital and other resources than we do. Counties, municipalities, fire districts and healthcare providers that currently contract for ambulance services could choose to provide ambulance services directly in the future. We may experience increased competition from fire departments in providing emergency medical transportation service. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully to provide our medical transportation services. If fuel prices increase significantly, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We are subject to risk with respect to purchases of fuel. Prices and availability of petroleum products are subject to political, economic, weather-related, and market factors that are generally outside of our control, and each of which may lead to an increase in the cost of fuel. Because our operations are dependent on fuel, significant increases in fuel costs could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition if we are unable to pass increased costs on to payers through rate increases or fuel surcharges. Fuel surcharges that can be collected do not always fully offset the increase in the cost of fuel. To the extent we are not able to successfully negotiate such rate increases or fuel surcharges, our results of operations may be adversely affected by increases in fuel price. Some state and local governments regulate our rate structures and may limit our ability to increase our rates or maintain a satisfactory rate structure. State or local government regulations or administrative policies regulate the rates we can charge in some states for non-emergency ambulance services. In addition, in some service areas in which we are the exclusive provider of services, the municipality or fire district sets the rates for emergency ambulance services pursuant to a master contract and otherwise establishes the rates for non-emergency ambulance services. In areas where our rates are regulated, there is no assurance we will receive ambulance service rate increases on a timely basis to offset increases in the cost to perform our services, or at all. If we are not able to obtain timely rate increases it could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profits and cash flows. If we fail to implement our business strategy, our financial performance and our growth could be materially and adversely affected. Our future financial performance and success are dependent in large part upon our ability to implement our business strategy successfully. Implementation of our business strategy could be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, such as increased competition, legal developments, government regulation, general economic 24 Table of Contents conditions or increased operating costs or expenses. In addition, to the extent we have misjudged the nature and extent of industry trends or our competition; we may have difficulty in achieving our strategic objectives. Any failure to implement our business strategy successfully may adversely affect our business, financial condition and profitability. Our long-term growth may also be adversely affected. Even if we are able to implement some or all of the initiatives of our business plan successfully, our operating results may not improve to the extent we anticipate, or at all. Our business depends on numerous complex information systems, and any failure to successfully maintain these systems or implement new systems could materially and adversely affect our operations. We depend on complex, integrated information systems and standardized procedures for operational and financial information and billing operations. We may experience unanticipated delays, complications and expenses in implementing, integrating and operating our systems. Any interruption in operations during periods of implementation would adversely affect our ability to properly allocate resources and process billing information in a timely manner, which could result in customer dissatisfaction and interruption in our cash flow. We also use the development and implementation of sophisticated and specialized technology to differentiate our services from our competitors and improve our profitability. The failure to implement and maintain operational, financial and billing information systems successfully could have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain new business, retain existing business and maintain or increase our profit margins. The reserves we establish with respect to our losses covered under our insurance programs are subject to inherent uncertainties, and we could be required to increase our reserves, which would adversely affect our results of operations. In connection with our insurance programs, we establish reserves for losses and related expenses which represent our expectations of the ultimate resolution and administration costs of losses we have incurred in respect of our liability risks. Our reserves are based on estimates involving actuarial and statistical projections, at a given point in time. However, insurance reserves inherently are subject to uncertainty. Our reserves are based on historical claims, demographic factors, industry trends, severity and exposure factors and other actuarial assumptions calculated by an independent actuary firm. The independent actuary firm performs studies of projected ultimate losses on an annual basis and provides quarterly updates to those projections. We use these actuarial estimates to determine appropriate reserves. Our reserves could be significantly affected if current and future occurrences differ from historical claim trends and expectations. While we monitor claims closely when we estimate reserves, the complexity of the claims and the wide range of potential outcomes may hamper timely adjustments to the assumptions we use in these estimates. Actual losses and related expenses may deviate, individually and in the aggregate, from the reserve estimates reflected in our financial statements. If we determine that our estimated reserves are inadequate, we will be required to increase reserves at the time of the determination which would result in a reduction in our net income in the period in which the deficiency is determined. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies—Insurance Reserves” and Note 9 of the notes to our financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. We may be subject to claims for which we are not insured or for which our insurance coverage is inadequate. In recent years, physicians, hospitals and other participants in the healthcare industry have become subject to an increasing number of lawsuits alleging medical malpractice and related legal theories such as negligent hiring, supervision and credentialing. Similarly, ambulance transport services may result in lawsuits concerning vehicle collisions and personal injuries, patient care incidents or mistreatment and employee job-related injuries. Some of these lawsuits may involve large claim amounts and substantial defense costs, which may not be covered by our insurance policies or for which we may not have established adequate reserves. In the normal course of our business, we are involved in lawsuits, claims, audits and investigations, including those arising out of our billing and marketing practices, employment disputes, contractual claims and other 25 Table of Contents business disputes for which we may have no insurance coverage, and which are not subject to actuarial estimates. The outcome of these matters could have a material effect on our results of operations in the period when we identify the matter, and the ultimate outcome could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. We obtain insurance coverage from third party insurers to supplement our self insurance program and to cover periods prior to our implementation of the program. To the extent we hold policies to cover certain claims, but either did not obtain sufficient insurance limits, or did not buy an extended reporting period policy, where applicable, or the issuing insurance company is no longer viable, we may be responsible for losses attributable to such claims. While we believe our commercial insurance company providers currently are creditworthy, there can be no assurance that such insurance companies will remain so in the future. If our insurers do not make payments in respect of claims, we may be required to do so, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Many of our employees are represented by labor unions and any unfavorable labor agreements or work stoppage could adversely affect our business, financial conditions, results of operations and reputation. Approximately 41% of our employees are covered by one or more of 22 collective bargaining agreements as of June 30, 2010. Six of these collective bargaining agreements, covering 829 employees, are subject to renegotiation in fiscal 2011. Although we believe our relations with our employees are good, we cannot assure you that we will be able to negotiate a satisfactory renewal of these collective bargaining agreements or that our employee relations will remain stable. If we are unable to negotiate a timely renewal of one or more agreements, the employees covered by the agreement may enter into a strike or other work stoppage. Such a stoppage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions, results of operations and reputation. We depend on our senior operational personnel and may not be able to retain those employees or recruit additional qualified personnel, which could adversely affect our business. We depend on our senior operational personnel. The loss of services of any of the members of our senior operational personnel could adversely affect our business until a suitable replacement can be found. If we were required to find a suitable replacement for one of our senior managers, there could be a limited number of persons with the requisite skill to serve in the position, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to identify or employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms. Risks Related to the Healthcare Industry We conduct business in a heavily regulated industry and state and federal legislation and regulations may have significant and unforeseeable impact on our operations. The ambulance industry is heavily regulated by the federal and state governments, with a substantial portion of our revenues coming from governmental sources. Congress and state legislatures have consistently fought to curb spending in governmental programs and in the past there have been frequent and significant changes in the methods and standards used by federal and state government agencies to reimburse and to regulate the operation of ambulance and other health care providers. Further, governmental payor programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, administrative rulings, interpretations of policy, determinations by intermediary entities and government funding restrictions, all of which may materially increase or decrease the rates of payment and cash flow to ambulance providers. There is no assurance that payments made under such programs will remain at levels comparable to the present levels or be sufficient to cover our fixed and operating costs. PPACA expands coverage to 30 million uninsured Americans through a combination of tax increases and reductions in Medicare and Medicaid spending. A significant portion of such savings are expected to be generated through recoupment and penalties associated with enhanced fraud and abuse enforcement. The federal 26 Table of Contents legislation contains over 1,000 rulemaking opportunities for the Secretary of DHHS, thus, the full impact of the law on our operations cannot be currently ascertained and may have a material impact on our operations. There is no reason to believe that substantial additional changes in federal and state laws and regulations will not occur in the future. From time to time, legislative proposals are made at the federal and state level to engage in broader reform of the healthcare industry, including proposals to contain healthcare costs, to provide health insurance, promote competition in the healthcare industry and to impose additional requirements and restrictions on healthcare insurers, providers and other healthcare entities. The content, timing or effects of future health care reform efforts on us cannot be predicted. Broadly speaking, provisions of federal and state laws which encourage or mandate health care coverage for individuals can be expected to benefit us. However, revisions to the Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement programs could reduce our revenues. We monitor and evaluate the impact of federal and state laws and related regulations and will continue to do so in order to assess their effects on our current and projected operations, financial performance and financial condition, however, we cannot predict with any reasonable degree of certainty or reliability any interim or ultimate effects of future federal or state health care legislation and regulations. We conduct business in a heavily regulated industry and if we fail to comply with applicable laws and government regulations, we could incur penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. The healthcare industry is heavily regulated and closely scrutinized by federal, state and local governments. Comprehensive statutes and regulations govern the manner in which we provide and bill for services, our contractual relationships, our marketing activities and other aspects of our operations. Failure to comply with these laws can result in civil and criminal penalties such as fines, damages and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The risk of being found in violation of these laws and regulations is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are sometimes open to a variety of interpretations. Any action against us for the violation of these laws or regulations, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. The parties with whom we contract are also subject to ethical guidelines and operational standards of professional and trade associations and private accreditation agencies. Compliance with these guidelines and standards is often required by our contracts with our customers or to maintain our reputation. The failure by the parties with whom we contract to comply with such guidelines and standards could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions, results of operations and reputation. The laws, regulations and standards governing the provision of healthcare services may change significantly in the future. New or changed healthcare laws, regulations or standards could materially and adversely affect our business. A review of our business by judicial, law enforcement, regulatory or accreditation authorities could result in a determination that could adversely affect our operations. We are subject to comprehensive and complex laws and rules that govern the manner in which we bill and are paid for our services by third-party payers, and the failure to comply with these rules, or allegations that we have failed to do so, can result in civil or criminal sanctions, including exclusion from federal and state healthcare programs. Like most healthcare providers, the majority of our services are paid for by private or governmental third-party payers, such as insurance companies, Medicare and Medicaid. These third-party payers typically have differing and complex billing and documentation requirements that we must meet in order to receive payment for our services. Reimbursement to us is typically conditioned on providing the correct procedure and diagnostic codes and properly documenting the services, including the level of service provided, medical necessity for the services and the identity of the practitioner who provided the service. 27 Table of Contents We must also comply with numerous other laws applicable to our documentation and the claims we submit for payment, including but not limited to (1) “coordination of benefits” rules that dictate which payer we must bill first when a patient has potential coverage from multiple payers; (2) requirements that we obtain the signature of the patient or patient representative, when possible, or document why we are unable to do so, prior to submitting a claim; (3) requirements that we make repayment to any payer which pays us more than the amount to which we were entitled; (4) requirements that we bill a hospital or nursing home, rather than Medicare, for certain ambulance transports provided to Medicare patients of such facilities; (5) requirements that our electronic claims for payment be submitted using certain standardized transaction codes and formats; and (6) laws requiring us to handle all health and financial information of our patients in a manner that complies with specified security and privacy standards. Governmental and private third party payers and other enforcement agencies carefully audit and monitor our compliance with these and other applicable rules, and in some cases in the past have found that we were not in compliance. We have received in the past, and expect to receive in the future, repayment demands from third party payers based on allegations that our services were not medically necessary, were billed at an improper level, or otherwise violated applicable billing requirements. Our failure to comply with the billing and other rules applicable to us could result in non-payment for services rendered or refunds of amounts previously paid for such services. In addition, non-compliance with these rules may cause us to incur civil and criminal penalties, including fines, imprisonment of our management or employees, and exclusion from government healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, under a number of state and federal laws. These laws include the federal False Claims Act, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, The Civil Monetary Penalties Law and other provisions of federal, state and local law. In addition, from time to time we self-identify practices that may have resulted in Medicare or Medicaid overpayments or other regulatory compliance issues. For example, we have previously identified situations in which we may have inadvertently utilized incorrect billing codes for some of the services we have billed to government programs such as Medicare or Medicaid. In such cases, if appropriate, it is our practice to disclose the issue to the affected government programs and to refund any resulting overpayments. Although the government usually accepts such disclosures and repayments without taking further enforcement action, it is possible that such disclosures or repayments will result in allegations by the government that we have violated the False Claims Act or other laws, leading to investigations and possibly civil or criminal enforcement actions. If our operations are found to be in violation of these or any of the other laws which govern our activities, any resulting penalties damages, fines or other sanctions could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Our contracts with healthcare facilities and our marketing practices are subject to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute. We are subject to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits the knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of “remuneration” in return for, or to induce, the referral of business or ordering of services paid for by Medicare or other federal programs. “Remuneration” potentially includes discounts and in-kind goods or services, as well as cash. Certain federal courts have held that the Anti-Kickback Statute can be violated if “one purpose” of a payment is to induce referrals. Violations of the Anti-Kickback Statute can result in imprisonment, civil or criminal fines or exclusion from Medicare and other governmental programs. In 1999, the OIG issued an Advisory Opinion indicating that discounts provided to health facilities on the transports for which they are financially responsible potentially violate the Anti-Kickback Statute when the ambulance company also receives referrals of Medicare and other government-funded transports from the facility. The OIG has clarified that not all discounts violate the Anti-Kickback Statute, but that the statute may be violated if part of the purpose of the discount is to induce the referral of the transports paid for by Medicare or other federal programs, and the discount does not meet certain “safe harbor” conditions. In the Advisory Opinion and subsequent pronouncements, the OIG has provided guidance to ambulance companies to help them avoid unlawful discounts. 28 Table of Contents Like other ambulance companies, we have provided discounts to our healthcare facility customers (nursing homes and hospitals) in certain circumstances. We have attempted to comply with applicable law when such discounts are provided. However, the government has alleged in the past that certain of our hospital and nursing home contracts contained discounts in violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute. There can be no assurance that investigations or legal action related to our contracting practices will not be pursued against us. If we are found to have violated the Anti-Kickback Statute, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties, including exclusion from the Medicare or Medicaid programs, or may be required to enter into settlement agreements with the government to avoid such sanctions. Typically, such settlement agreements require substantial payments to the government in exchange for the government to release its claims, and may also require us to enter into a Corporate Integrity Agreement (“CIA”). In addition to our contracts with healthcare facilities, other marketing practices or transactions we enter into may implicate the Anti-Kickback Statute. Although we have attempted to structure our past and current marketing initiatives and business relationships to comply with the Anti-Kickback Statute, we cannot assure you that the OIG of the DHHS or other authorities will not find that our marketing practices and relationships violate the statute. If we fail to comply with the terms of our settlement agreements with the federal government, we could be subject to additional litigation or other governmental actions which could be harmful to our business. In the last five years, we have entered into three settlement agreements with the United States government. In connection with the settlement agreements, we have entered into two CIAs, each of which is still in effect. Pursuant to the CIAs, we are required to establish and maintain compliance programs, which include, among other things, the appointment of a compliance officer and committee; the training of employees nationwide; enhancing procedures relating to certain of our contracting processes, including tracking contractual arrangements; review by an independent review organization; and reporting of certain reportable events. We cannot assure you that the CIAs or the compliance programs we have initiated have prevented, or will prevent, any repetition of the conduct or allegations that were the subject of these settlement agreements, or that the government will not raise similar allegations in other jurisdictions or for other periods of time. If such allegations are raised, or if we fail to comply with the terms of the settlement agreement or CIAs, we may be subject to fines and other contractual and regulatory remedies specified in the settlement agreements and/or CIAs or by applicable laws, including exclusion from the Medicare program and other federal and state healthcare programs. Such actions could have a material adverse effect on the conduct of our business, our financial condition or our results of operations. We may not be able to successfully recruit and retain paramedics and EMT professionals with the qualifications and attributes desired by us and our customers. Our ability to recruit and retain paramedics and EMT professionals significantly affects our business. Due to the geographic and demographic diversity of the communities we serve, medical personnel shortages in some of our market areas can make the recruiting and retention of full-time personnel more difficult and costly. Moreover, we compete with other entities, both municipal and private, to recruit and retain qualified paramedics and EMTs to deliver ambulance services. Failure to retain or replace our medical personnel or to attract new personnel, or the additional cost of doing so may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to operate our business At June 30, 2010, we had total debt of $269.0 million, including $174.9 million of borrowing under the term loan portion of our senior secured credit facility, $93.5 million of senior discount notes and no borrowings outstanding under our $40.0 million revolving credit facility (the “2009 Credit Facility”), other than letters of credit issued 29 Table of Contents under the $25.0 million letter of credit subline. In addition, subject to restrictions in the indenture governing our notes and the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facility, we may incur additional debt. Our level of debt obligation could have important consequences, including the following: • It may be difficult to satisfy our principal and interest obligations; • It may be difficult to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other general corporate purposes; and • It may be difficult to capitalize on business opportunities and to react to competitive pressures, as compared to our competitors. Furthermore, the borrowings under our senior secured credit facility bear interest at variable rates. If these rates were to increase significantly, to the extent not hedged, our debt service costs would increase and could have a potential material effect on our cash flows. Our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on numerous factors beyond our control, and we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our debt and to fund planned capital expenditures and acquisitions will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. To some extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Lower net revenues generally will reduce our cash flow. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt and meet our other commitments, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt, sell material assets or operations or raise additional debt or equity capital. We cannot assure you that we could effect any of these actions on a timely basis, on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or that these actions would be sufficient to meet our capital requirements. In addition, the terms of our existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from effecting any of these alternatives. Restrictive covenants in our senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing our senior discount notes may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. Our 2009 Credit Facility and the indentures governing our senior discount notes limit our ability, among other things, to: • Incur additional debt or issue certain preferred stock; • Pay dividends or make distributions to our stockholders; • Repurchase, issue, or redeem our capital stock; • Make investments; • Incur liens; • Make capital expenditures; • Enter into transactions with our stockholders, other businesses, and affiliates; • Sell certain assets; • Acquire the assets of, or merge or consolidate with, other companies; and • Incur restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions or transfer assets to us. The restrictions could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs or otherwise restrict corporate activities. 30 Table of Contents In addition, the 2009 Credit Facility requires us to meet certain financial ratios and restricts our ability to make capital expenditures or prepay certain other debt. We may not be able to maintain these ratios and have had, and in the future may need, to seek waivers or amendments relating to these ratios. Our 2009 Credit Facility and indentures also require us to provide financial statements and related reports within certain timeframes. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and any material deviations from our forecasts could require us to seek waivers or amendments of covenants, alternative sources of financing or reductions in expenditures. We cannot assure you that any waivers, amendments or alternative financings could be obtained, or, if obtained, would be on terms acceptable to us. If a breach of any covenant or restriction contained in our financing agreements results in an event of default, those lenders could discontinue lending, accelerate the related debt (which would accelerate other debt) and declare all borrowings outstanding thereunder to be due and payable. In addition, the lenders could terminate any commitments they had made to supply us with additional funds. In the event of a default on our debt, we may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to make any accelerated debt payments, which could result in a reorganization of the Company. We may be unable to fully realize the benefits of our net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards if an ownership change occurs. If we were to experience a “change in ownership” under Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code (“Section 382”), the NOL carryforward limitations under Section 382 would impose an annual limit on the amount of the future taxable income that may be offset by our NOL generated prior to the change in ownership. In general, a change in ownership occurs when, as of any testing date, there has been a cumulative change in the stock ownership of the corporation held by 5% stockholders of more than 50 percentage points over an applicable three-year rolling period. For these purposes, a 5% stockholder is generally any person or group of persons that at any time during an applicable three-year rolling period has owned 5% or more of the outstanding common stock of Rural/Metro Corporation. Additionally, persons who own less than 5% of the outstanding common stock are grouped together as one or more “public group” 5% stockholders. Under Section 382, stock ownership would be determined under complex attribution rules and generally includes shares held directly, indirectly (though intervening entities) and constructively (by certain related parties and certain unrelated parties acting as a group). Rural/Metro Corporation is the sole obligor of the senior discount notes, and our subsidiaries do not guarantee our obligations under the senior discount notes or have any obligation with respect to the senior discount notes; consequently, the senior discount notes are structurally subordinated to the debt and liabilities of our subsidiaries. Our senior discount notes are structurally subordinated to all debt and liabilities (including trade payables) of our subsidiaries. Holders of our senior discount notes will participate with all other holders of our unsecured indebtedness in the assets remaining after our subsidiaries have paid all their debts and liabilities. Our subsidiaries may not have sufficient funds to make payments to us, and holders of senior discount notes may receive less, ratably, than the holders of debt of our subsidiaries and other liabilities. Accordingly, if our subsidiaries have their debt accelerated, we may not be able to repay our indebtedness under the senior discount notes. The indenture governing the senior discount notes contains a waiver by the trustee and holders of the senior discount notes of any rights to make a claim for substantive consolidation of us with any of our subsidiaries in any bankruptcy or similar proceeding. As of June 30, 2010, (i) on an unconsolidated basis, we had $93.5 million of senior indebtedness, consisting of the senior discount notes, but excluding the guarantee of borrowings under the 2009 Credit Facility, and (ii) Rural/Metro LLC had approximately $269.0 million of indebtedness, including $174.9 million of borrowings under the 2009 Credit Facility. In addition, as of June 30, 2010, an additional $15.4 million would have been available for borrowing under the revolving credit portion of the 2009 Credit Facility. 31 Table of Contents We may not pay dividends. We have never paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently plan to retain any earnings for use in our business rather than to pay cash dividends. Payments of any cash dividends in the future will depend on our financial condition, results of operations and capital requirements as well as other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. The indentures governing our Senior Discount Notes due 2016 and our 2009 Credit Facility contain restrictions on our ability to pay cash dividends, and any future borrowings may contain similar restrictions. It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us and this could depress our stock price. We are a Delaware company which has adopted a Shareholder Rights Plan pursuant to which we issued one preferred stock purchase right for each outstanding share of common stock. The rights will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us in a manner or on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. Consequently, our Shareholder Rights Plan could make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit security holders. Certain anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law to which we are subject and certain provisions of our charter could also make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. The anti-takeover effects of these provisions and those of our Shareholder Rights Plan could depress our stock price and may result in the entrenchment of existing management, regardless of their performance. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 