D. RISK FACTORS. This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements, which involve risks and uncertainties. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including those set forth in the following Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report. Risks Relating to Our Financial Condition We have a history of significant losses and may not be profitable in the future. For the fiscal year ended April 30, 2006 we have reported net losses of GBP6,750,000 ($12,327,000) on revenues of GBP17,560,000 ($32,070,000). For the fiscal year ended April 30, 2005, we have reported net losses of GBP3,958,000 on revenues of GBP15,651,000. For the Fiscal year ended April 30, 2004, we have reported net losses of GBP1,662,000 on revenues of GBP18,661,000. We have experienced significant cash constraints on our operations during these years. Our Managed Benefit Programs, launched in October 2003, continued to make the major contribution to the income statement, generating GBP15,224,000 ($27,804,000) of revenue and GBP2,419, 000 ($4,419,000) of gross margin contribution in fiscal 2006 compared to GBP14,036,000 of revenues and GBP1,033,000 of gross margin contribution in fiscal 2005, compared to GBP17,366,000 of revenues and GBP2,120,000 of gross margin contribution in fiscal 2004. Our Managed Benefits Programs are likely to be materially impacted by the recent termination of the Home Computing Initiative by the UK Government (see below, Risk Factor “The recent termination of the Home Computing Initiative by the UK Government is likely to harm our business”). Although we expect to reach cash positive operations by the first calendar quarter of 2007, it may be the case that we continue to operate at a loss for the foreseeable future. If we continue to have operating losses, there is no certainty that we will have the financial resources to continue in business. 10 Our liquidity may be significantly impaired if we have problems raising capital we need in the future. As of April 30, 2006, we had a working capital deficit of GBP 1,749,000 ($3,195,000). Historically, we have financed our operations and met our capital requirements primarily through funds generated from operations and the issuance of our ADSs. Market and other conditions largely beyond our control may affect our ability to engage in future sales of such securities, the timing of any such sales, and the amount of proceeds therefrom. Even if we are able to sell any such securities in the future, we may not be able to sell at favorable prices or on favorable terms. In addition, this funding source may not be sufficient in the future, and although we expect to reach cash positive operations by the first calendar quarter of 2007, it may be the case that we need to obtain funding from outside sources. However, we may not be able to obtain funding from outside sources. In addition, even if we find outside funding sources, we may be required to issue to such outside sources securities with greater rights than those currently possessed by holders of our ADSs. We may also be required to take other actions, which may lessen the value of our ADSs or dilute our ADSs, including borrowing money on terms that are not favorable to us or issuing additional shares of ADSs. If we experience difficulties raising capital in the future, our business could be materially adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Business Generally Our business may be harmed by acquisitions we have completed and may complete in the future. We have acquired related businesses and may pursue additional acquisitions in the future. We cannot guarantee that we will realize any anticipated benefits from acquisitions that we have recently completed or may complete in the future. In connection with the businesses we have recently acquired (including EBC and Button Group plc) and other businesses we may acquire in the future, the process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of our existing business. Our identification of suitable acquisition candidates involves risks inherent in assessing the values, strengths, weaknesses, risks and profitability of acquisition candidates, including the effects of the possible acquisition on our business, diversion of our management’s attention and risks associated with unanticipated problems or latent liabilities. If we are successful in pursuing future acquisitions, we will be required to expend significant funds, incur additional debt or issue additional securities to finance such acquisitions, which may negatively affect our results of operations and be dilutive to our stockholders. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to finance additional acquisitions on terms satisfactory to us, if at all. If we spend significant funds or incur additional debt, our ability to obtain financing for working capital or other purposes could decline which could harm our business and prospects. The loss of one or more of our significant customers could harm our business and prospects For the fiscal year ended April 30, 2006, our two largest customers together represented approximately 33% and 32%, respectively, of our gross sales. The loss of either of these major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The recent termination of the Home Computing Initiative by the UK Government, is likely to harm our business. On March 22, 2006, the UK Government announced, as part of its bi-annual treasury budget statement, the termination of the HCI tax exemption. The termination became effective on April 6, 2006. Those employers and employees who signed up for the HCI benefit prior to April 6, 2006 remain eligible to receive this benefit for its three year term. We continue to provide services to HCI clients and over 40,000 employee-subscribing households without interruption. The future of HCI remains unclear, although, the UK Government is considering plans for a revised version. The timetable for the release of such scheme is unknown. We will continue to provide Managed Benefit Services to UK companies. On April 26, 2006 we announced an expansion of our portfolio with the launch of a new Managed Benefits solution at the Employee Benefits North Conference and Exhibition. The new service, while not incorporating tax benefits, will provide the opportunity for employers to offer employees and their families home-based education and digital access for work, school and life enhancement. This service will target both companies which previously offered HCI, plus those other companies whose plans to do so were cut short by the UK Government’s change in the tax regulations. The elimination of the HCI tax exemption by the UK Government is likely to harm our business. Also, the market for our new Managed Benefits Services may never develop further and our products may not achieve broader market acceptance, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 We may not be able to compete successfully. The net-based learning business evolves rapidly and is subject to rapid technological change. We currently compete both with smaller UK based companies as well as larger multinational firms in the development and implementation of net-based learning products. Some of these competitors are more established, better capitalized and have a better market position than us. In addition, these competitors may have the ability to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies, may adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements and may devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products and services than us. We may also have a cost disadvantage compared to competitors who have greater direct buying power from suppliers or who have lower cost structures. The sales cycle for our products, marketed toward corporate customers, is lengthy and there is no guaranty of resulting sales. A substantial portion of our revenues are derived from sales of our products and services to large corporate customers and public sector organizations , whereby we provide products and services directly to customers’ employees, in their own homes. Customers demand highly reliable products and services to be provided to their employees, and often implement a lengthy selection process in order to determine the successful supplier. This process can take up to several months before our customers commit to purchase. Such selection processes are commonly based on us providing access to demonstration material based on existing solutions produced for other customers and frequently require significant pre-sales activity. The sales volume of some of our hosted and Managed Benefit Programs are significantly dependent on acceptance and adoption of the product by our customers’ employees. Some of our customers may also source third party e-Learning content products that compete with our products. These customers could give higher priority to the use of competing products. Some of our customers do not have exclusive or long-term purchase obligations with us. The failure of customers to decide to purchase our products after we spend significant marketing resources and the possibility that customers may source third party competing products could harm our business. The marketing and sales cycle for our products is lengthy. Some of our customers contract for delivery of solutions over a period of up to three years. The continuation of such contracts depend on the continued acceptance of the product by the customer’s employees, and discontinuation of such contracts could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, the time lag from initiation of marketing efforts to final sales can be lengthy and expensive and there is no guaranty that the expenditure of significant time and resources will results in sales. 12 Our business could be harmed if we are unable to protect our proprietary technology. We have no patents with respect to our product design or production processes. In choosing not to seek patent protection, we instead have relied on the complexity of our technology, our trade secret protection policies, common law trade secret laws, copyrights, and confidentiality and/or license agreements entered into with our employees, suppliers, sales agents, customers and potential customers. As a part of our trade secret protection policies, we try to limit access to, and distribution of, our software, related documentation and other proprietary information. We cannot assure that such strategy will prevent or deter others from using our products to develop equivalent or superior products or technology, or from doing so independently. Further, we cannot assure that we will seek or obtain patent protection for future technological developments or that any patents that may be granted in the future would be enforceable or would provide us with meaningful protection from competitors. Moreover, litigation by us to enforce or defend our proprietary rights could result in significant expense and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation results in a favorable outcome for us. In order to avoid expense or diversion of resources, we could agree to enter into a license agreement or other settlement arrangement, notwithstanding our continuing belief in our position. Our business would be harmed if our products and technology infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. We cannot assure that our products do not, and that our proposed products will not, infringe any patents or rights of others. If a patent infringement claim is asserted against us, whether or not we are successful in defending such claim, the defense of such claim may be very costly. While we are unable to predict what costs would be incurred if we were obliged to devote substantial financial or management resources to patent litigation, our ability to fund our operations and to pursue our business goals may be substantially impaired. If we fail to renew critical licensing arrangements our business and prospects could be harmed. We market a number of products under license from several suppliers and under varying terms of exclusivity and tenure. While we believe that these licensing arrangements will continue and, if considered in our best interest, will be renewed, we cannot assure that licenses will be extended with us on satisfactory terms, if at all. While we believe that the failure to extend licensing arrangements with respect to one or a small number of products would not substantially affect us, the failure to renew a significant number of the present licenses could have an adverse effect on the future profitability of our business and prospects. Our business could be harmed if our products contain undetected errors or defects or do not meet customer specifications. We are continuously developing new products and improving our existing products. Newly introduced products can contain undetected errors or defects. In addition, these products may not meet customer performance specifications under all conditions for all applications. If, despite our internal testing and testing by our customers, any of our products contains errors or defects or any of our products fail to meet customer specifications, then we may be required to enhance or improve those products or technologies. We may not be able to do so on a timely basis, if at all, and may only be able to do so at considerable expense. In addition, any significant reliability problems could result in adverse customer reaction, negative publicity or legal claims and could harm our business and prospects. 13 Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and Nasdaq-CM (formerly the Nasdaq Small Cap Market) rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. We expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. Further, our board members, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may be harmed. Risks Relating to the e-Learning Market Our future success will depend upon the highly volatile and unpredictable e-Learning market. Revenues derived from the sale of our e-Learning solutions are directly or indirectly related to spending and investment plans of large corporate businesses and public sector organizations on net-based learning technologies and associated services. These large businesses and public sector organizations may be subject to significant fluctuations as a consequence of general economic conditions, industry patterns or other factors affecting such spending and investment. Expenditures for products and services such as ours are directly affected by these fluctuations. We expect that our operations will continue to depend on these factors. Fluctuations, downturns or slowdowns in these large businesses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Seasonal fluctuations in the market may create periodic rises in expenses or falls in demand which would be difficult to offset. The demand for our products is generally expected to be stronger in the second half of the fiscal year (which ends on April 30) and weaker in the first half due to seasonal buying patterns in the UK and the rest of Europe, as well as the seasonality created by the timing of the client-internal marketing campaigns for Managed Benefit Program products, which tend to peak in the third fiscal quarter, with deliveries scheduled by Christmas. The shifts in demand for our products may make it difficult to plan delivery capacity and business operations efficiently. If demand is significantly below expectations we may be unable rapidly to reduce fixed costs, which can diminish gross margins and cause losses. A downturn in demand may also leave us with excess inventory, which may be rendered obsolete or overvalued as products evolve during the downturn and demand shifts to new products or prices fall. Conversely, in upturns in demand, we may incur expenses to expedite delivery of products, procure scarce components and outsource additional manufacturing processes. These expenses could reduce our gross margins and overall profitability. Any of these results could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 The markets for our products are in the early stage of development. The markets for most of our products are at a relatively early stage of development and customer acceptance. Broader acceptance of our products will depend on customer and end-user reaction to those products and the price and performance of our products and our competitors' products. We believe that the development of these markets will, in part, depend on the success of our efforts to inform and demonstrate to our customers the perceived efficacy of our products.. These markets may never develop further and our products may not achieve broader market acceptance, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends upon our ability to adapt to rapid changes in products, technology and customer requirements. Our business will be significantly influenced by technological changes and innovations. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent introductions of new products. We have historically derived a significant portion of our revenues from the sale of new and enhanced products. Our future success will depend upon our ability to enhance our existing products and to source, develop and introduce, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new competitive products with features that meet changing customer requirements and address technological developments. Our products could be rendered obsolete by new customer requirements or the emergence of new technologies. Our failure to develop, manufacture and sell new products and product enhancements in quantities sufficient to offset a decline in revenues from existing products or to manage product transitions successfully would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As new products are introduced, we must attempt to monitor closely the range of our products to be replaced and to phase out their production and distribution in a controlled manner. There can be no assurance, however, that such product transitions will be executed without adversely affecting overall product sales or that we will be successful in identifying, developing, and marketing new products or enhancing our existing products. The development of new products has required, and will continue to require, that we spend significant financial and management resources. Our business would be materially adversely affected if we were to incur delays in developing new products or enhancements or if such products or enhancements did not gain market acceptance. In addition, there can be no assurance that products or technologies developed by one or more of our present or potential competitors could not render obsolete both our present and future products. There is no assurance that the useful life of any product will be long enough to enable us to recover its development costs. In addition, sales of certain of our products generally may tend to decline over time unless the products are enhanced or repackaged. Risks Relating to the Market for Our Securities The market price of our ADSs have been and may continue to be volatile. The market price of our ADSs has been and may continue to be highly volatile. Consequently, the current market price of our ADSs may not be indicative of value. We believe that a variety of factors could cause the price of our ADSs to fluctuate including: · announcements and rumors of developments related to our business, or the industry in which we compete; · quarterly fluctuations in our actual or anticipated operating results; · general conditions in the e-Learning market; · new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; · announcements of technological innovations; · developments in our relationships with our customers and suppliers; and · general conditions in the worldwide economy. 15 Our ADSs may be affected by volume fluctuations and may fluctuate significantly in price. Our ADSs are currently traded on the Nasdaq-CM. The average daily trading volume of our ADSs for the thirty days ending November 13, 2006 was 22,960,070 ADSs. The high and low bid price of our ADSs for the last two years has been $1.170 and $0.080 respectively. Our ADSs have experienced, and are likely to experience in the future, significant price and volume fluctuations, which could adversely affect the market price of our ADSs without regard to our operating performance. We may issue additional securities which may be dilutive to our stockholders. We presently have outstanding options pursuant to which an aggregate of 11,269,194 ADSs may be issued upon exercise thereof. We also presently have up to an aggregate of 192,565,168ADSs issuable upon conversion and exercise of (i) the Convertible Debentures and Warrants issued to M.A.G. on the closing date of July 21, 2005, also known as the M.A.G. Financing; (ii) the Convertible Note and Warrant issued to Cornell Capital Partners, LP in connection with a $2,500,000 financing with a closing date of December 19, 2005, also known as the $2,500,00 Financing, (iii) the Amended and Restated Secured Convertible Notes issued to Cornell Capital Partners, LP, Certain Wealth, Ltd. and TAIB, Bank, B.S.C. and Warrants issued to Cornell Capital Partners, LP in connection with a $9,000,000 financing consisting of (a) a $7,500,000 tranche of financing with a closing date of April 25, 2006 and (b) the extension to this $7,500,000 financing with an additional $1,500,000 tranche of financing with a closing date of August 3, 2006 (the total financing with Cornell Capital Partners, LP, Certain Wealth, Ltd, and TAIB Bank was for $9,000,000), also known as the $9,000,000 Financing, (iv) the $1,500,000 Secured Convertible Note issued to Cornell Capital Partners, LP in connection with the $9,000,000 Financing; (v) the Subscription Agreement and Warrants issued to an investor on October 25, 2006 pursuant to a $5,000,000 private placement conducted in accordance with Rule 903 of Regulation S, promulgated under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended, also known as the $5,000,000 Private Placement; and (vi) the Subscription Agreement issued to Le Shark Limited on October 27, 2006 pursuant to a $800,000 private placement conducted in accordance with Rule 903 of Regulation S, promulgated under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended, also known as the $800,000 Private Placement. In addition, we issued an additional warrant to our financial advisor to purchase up to 411,692 ADSs in connection with the M.A.G. Financing. Furthermore, in connection with the $2,500,000 Financing, the $9,000,000 Financing, and the $550,000 Secured Convertible Note issued to Cornell Capital Partners, LP in connection with the $550,000 financing with a closing date of September 28, 2006, also known as the $550,000 Financing, we issued an aggregate of 1,915,000 fully paid and nonassessable ADSs to Cornell Capital Partners, LP. The issuance of any additional ADSs, whether upon the exercise of derivative securities, including options, warrants or debentures, in connection with a financing or otherwise, including additional ordinary shares issuable as a consequence of any anti-dilution provisions set forth in the instruments evidencing such derivative securities, would reduce the proportionate ownership and voting power of then-existing shareholders. 16 We may not be able to continue to satisfy the applicable standards for continued listing on the Nasdaq-CM Market. Our ADSs are currently traded on the Nasdaq-CM. No assurance can be given that an orderly trading market will be sustained in the future. Also, Nasdaq requires that, in order for a company's securities to continue to be listed on the Nasdaq-CM, the company must maintain either a minimum stockholders’ equity of $2,500,000, market capitalization of $35,000,000 or net income of $500,000 in the most recently completed fiscal year or in two of the last three most recently completed fiscal years. We had negative stockholders’ deficit of approximately $2,007,000 at April 30, 2006, net loss for the year ended April 30, 2006 of $12,327,000, and a net loss for the financial year ended April 30, 2005 of $7,228,000 and a market capitalization of $42,045,307 on April 30, 2006. On February 16, 2006, we announced that we had received notice from The Nasdaq Stock Market (a Staff Determination Letter) advising us that our securities are subject to delisting based upon our failure to have a market value of listed securities of at least $35,000,000 or, in the alternative, $2,500,000 in shareholders' equity or $500,000 in net income in the last fiscal year or in two of the last three fiscal years. We requested a hearing before a Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel to review the Staff Determination and to request the continued listing of our ADSs on The Nasdaq Stock Market pending our compliance with the alternative requirement of $2,500,000 in shareholders' equity. On March 9, 2006, we announced that our hearing before a Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel had been scheduled for March 23, 2006. The hearing was held on that date. On April 28, 2006, we received notification from The Nasdaq Stock Market granting our request for continued listing subject to our executing our plan to achieve more than $2,500,000 in shareholders' equity by May 31, 2006. On May 31, 2006 we announced that with the close of the Button Group plc acquisition on May 26, 2006 and the private placement of $4,315,000, which we announced on May 4, 2006, we had completed our plan and believed we had met the shareholders’ equity requirement for continued listing. On June 9, 2006, we received notification that the Nasdaq Listings Qualifications Panel determined that we are in compliance with all Nasdaq Marketplace Rules and therefore approved the continued listing of our securities on the Nasdaq-CM. In addition, effective May 29, 2006, the continued listing of our ADSs became subject to a $1.00 minimum bid price. Our ADSs do not currently meet the $1.00 minimum bid price. On July 8, 2006, we received a notice from Nasdaq-CM of our failure to meet the $1.00 minimum bid price for 30 consecutive business days pursuant to Nasdaq rule 4320(e). We have a period of 180 calendar days from such notification to achieve compliance. If we are not deemed in compliance prior to the expiration of the 180 day compliance period, we shall be afforded an additional 180 days compliance period, provided that on the 180th day of the first compliance period, we demonstrate that we meet the criteria for initial inclusion set forth in Nasdaq Rule 4320(e) (except for the bid price requirement set forth in Rule 4320(e)(2)(E)(i)) based on our most recent public filings and market information. Our Board of Directors has decided to monitor the price of our ADSs before determining action in response to this notice. If our minimum bid price does not exceed $1.00 and if we are required to take action, we believe that we will be able to adjust appropriately the ratio of ordinary shares to ADSs so that the bid price of our ADSs traded will exceed $1.00. However, we cannot provide any assurance that our ADSs will satisfy such $1.00 threshold despite adjustments in the ratio of ordinary shares to ADSs. If it is determined that, notwithstanding our meeting the minimum bid standard, that we otherwise are not in compliance with Nasdaq rules, our ADSs will be delisted from Nasdaq unless we successfully appeal the delisting determination. We cannot provide any assurance that our ADSs will meet the required $1.00 minimum bid price (or any other Nasdaq listing criteria) at any time in the future or that any appeal by us of a delisting determination would be successful. 17 Our ADSs may become subject to penny stock regulation. In the event our ADSs are delisted from the Nasdaq-CM, our ADSs may become subject to the "penny stock" rules of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, also known as the Commission. A "penny stock" is generally an equity security with a market price of less than $5.00 per share which is not quoted through (i) the Nasdaq system; (ii) a national securities exchange in the US; or (iii) a national securities exchange in the US that has been continuously registered since April 20, 1992 and that has maintained initial and continued listing standards that are substantially similar to or stricter than the listing standards that were in place at that exchange on January 8, 2004. Due to the risks involved in an investment in penny stocks, US securities laws and regulations impose certain requirements and limitations on broker/dealers who recommend penny stocks to persons other than their established customers and accredited investors, including making a special written suitability determination for the purchaser, providing purchasers with a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and its risks and obtaining the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction prior to the sale. These requirements may limit the ability of broker/dealers to sell penny stocks. Also, because of these requirements and limitations, many broker/dealers may be unwilling to sell penny stocks at all. In the event we become subject to the Commission's rules relating to penny stock, the trading market for the ADSs may be materially adversely affected. Risks Relating to the Financing Arrangements with Cornell Capital Partners, LP, Certain Wealth, Ltd. and TAIB Bank, B.S.C. Cornell Capital Partners, LP could hold up to 42.431% of our ADSs which could allow Cornell Capital Partners, LP to control or influence shareholder votes. Pursuant to the $9,000,000 financing consisting of (i) a $7,500,000 tranche of financing with a closing date of April 25, 2006 and (ii) the extension to this $7,500,000 financing with an additional $1,500,000 tranche of financing with a closing date of August 3, 2006 (the total financing with Cornell Capital Partners, LP, Certain Wealth, Ltd, and TAIB Bank was for $9,000,000), also known as the $9,000,000 Financing, Cornell Capital Partners could own up to 4.9% of our ADSs, at present approximately 11,000,931 of our issued and outstanding ADSs. Since Cornell Capital Partners, LP can waive such limit, it could own at least up to 75,477,500 ADSs issuable upon (w) conversion of a $5,500,000 Amended and Restated Secured Convertible Note issued to Cornell Capital Partners, LP in connection with the a $9,000,000 Financing (up to 55,000,000 ADSs are issuable to Cornell Capital Partners, LP upon conversion of the $5,500,000 Amended and Restated Secured Convertible Notes ); (x) conversion of a $1,500,000 Secured Convertible Note issued to Cornell Capital Partners, LP pursuant to the $9,000,000 Financing (up to 15,000,000 ADSs are issuable to Cornell Capital Partners, LP upon conversion of the $1,500,000 Secured Convertible Note;(y) exercise of a 4,000,000 ADS Warrant and a 750,000 ADS Warrant issued to Cornell Capital Partners, LP pursuant to the $9,000,000 Financing; and (z) 727,500 fully paid and non assessable ADSs issued to Cornell Capital Partners, LP pursuant to the $9,000,000 Financing.. Pursuant to the $550,000 financing with Cornell Capital Partners, LP which closed on September 28, 2006, also known as the $550,000 Financing, Cornell Capital Partners, LP own 1,000,000 fully paid and non assessable ADSs issued to Cornell Capital Partners, LP pursuant to the $550,000 Financing. The Secured Convertible Loan Note for $550,000 Financing was repaid by the Company on October 27, 2006. Additionally, pursuant to the December 19, 2005 financing with Cornell Capital Partners, LP, Cornell Capital Partners, LP could own up to 4.99% of our ADSs, at present approximately 11,202,989 of our issued and outstanding ADSs. Since Cornell Capital Partners, LP can waive such limit, it could own at least up to 18,784,020 ADSs issuable upon (i) conversion of a $2,500,000 Convertible Note (up to 18,346,520 ADSs are issuable upon conversion of the $2,500,000 Convertible Note), (ii) exercise of a 250,000 ADS Warrant, and (iii) 187,500 fully paid and non assessable ADSs issued to Cornell Capital Partners, LP. 18 Such 95,261,520 ADSs issued to Cornell Capital Partners, LP in the aggregate (75,477,500 ADSs + 1,000,000 +18,784,020 ADSs) would represent approximately 42.431% of our issued and outstanding ADSs on a post conversion/exercise basis. If all or most of these ADSs are issued to, and held by, Cornell Capital Partners, LP, it would be able to control or influence the disposition of any matter submitted to a vote of shareholders. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us. In addition, if Cornell Capital Partners, LP chooses to sell a substantial number of our ADSs in the public market at or about the same time, such sales could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. In addition, the sale of these ADSs could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional ADSs. Cornell Capital Partners, LP’s interests may conflict with the interest of our shareholders. Cornell Capital Partners, LP owns, controls and has interest in a wide array of companies, some of which may compete directly or indirectly with us. As a result, Cornell Capital Partners, LP’s interests may not always be consistent with our interests or the interests of our shareholders. There are no specific agreements or arrangements in place between us and Cornell Capital Partners, LP to address potential or actual conflicts that may arise. To the extent that conflicts of interest may arise between us and Cornell Capital Partners, LP, those conflicts may be resolved in a manner adverse to us or to you or other holders of our securities. Holders of our secured indebtedness will have a prior claim on our assets. As part of our $9,000,000 financing with Cornell Capital, LP, Certain Wealth, Ltd. and TAIB Bank, B.S.C. consisting of (i) a $7,500,000 tranche of financing with a closing date of April 25, 2006 and (ii) the extension to this $7,500,000 financing with an additional $1,500,000 tranche of financing with a closing date of August 3, 2006 (the total financing with Cornell Capital Partners, LP, Certain Wealth, Ltd, and TAIB Bank was for $9,000,000), also known as the $9,000,000 Financing which signed on April 19, 2006 and closed on April 25, 2006, we issued (i) an Amended and Restated Secured Convertible Note to Cornell Capital Partners, LP in the aggregate principal amount of $5,500,000; (ii) an Amended and Restated Secured Convertible Note to Certain Wealth, Ltd, in the aggregate principal amount of $1,000,000; (iii) an Amended and Restated Secured Convertible Note to TAIB Bank, B.S.C. in the aggregate amount of $1,000,000, all collectively known as the Amended and Restated Secured Convertible Notes; and (iv) a Secured Convertible Note to Cornell Capital Partners, LP in the aggregate principal amount of $1,500,000, also known as the $1,500,000 Secured Convertible Note. As part of our $550,000 financing with Cornell Capital Partners, LP, also known as the $550,000 Financing which closed on September 28, 2006, we issued a $550,000 Secured Convertible Note to Cornell Capital Partners, LP in the aggregate principal amount of $550,000. The Secured Convertible Loan Note for $550,000 Financing was repaid by the Company on October 27, 2006. If an event of default occurs under any of the Amended and Restated Secured Convertible Notes, the $1,500,000 Secured Convertible Note, the investors thereunder will have the right to exercise the remedies available to the secured investor under applicable law and the agreements governing such secured indebtedness. The effect of such security interest is to give the investors under such secured indebtedness a prior claim on our assets. The $2,500,000 Convertible Note provides for various events of default that would entitle the holders to require us to immediately repay the outstanding principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, in cash. If an event of default occurs, we may be unable to immediately repay the amount owed, and any repayment may leave us with little or no working capital in our business. We will be considered in default of the $2,500,000 Convertible Note issued to Cornell Capital Partners, LP in the December 19, 2005 financing, if certain events occur. If an event of default occurs, Cornell Capital Partners, LP, as the holder of the $2,500,000 Convertible Note, can elect to require us to pay all of the outstanding principal amount, plus all other accrued and unpaid amounts under the $2,500,000 Convertible Note. Some of the events of default include matters over which we may have some, little or no control. If a default occurs and we cannot pay the amounts payable under the $2,500,000 Convertible Note in cash (including any interest on such amounts and any applicable late fees under the $2,500,000 Convertible Note), Cornell Capital Partners, LP may protect and enforce its rights or remedies either by suit in equity or by action at law, or both, whether for the specific performance of any covenant, agreement or other provision contained in the $2,500,000 Convertible Note, in the related securities purchase agreement or in any document or instrument delivered in connection with or pursuant to the $2,500,000 Convertible Note, or to enforce the payment of the outstanding $2,500,000 Convertible Note or any other legal or equitable right or remedy. This would have an adverse effect on our continuing operations. 19 The Secured Convertible Notes provide for various events of default that would entitle the holders to require us to immediately repay the outstanding principal amounts, plus accrued and unpaid interest, in cash. If an event of default occurs, we may be unable to immediately repay the amounts owed, and any repayment may leave us with little or no working capital in our business. We will be considered in default of the $5,500,000 Amended and Restated Secured Convertible Note issued to Cornell Capital Partners, LP, the $1,000,00 Amended and Restated Secured Convertible Note issued to Certain Wealth, Ltd., the $1,000,000 Amended and Restated Secured Convertible Note issued to TAIB Bank, B.S.C., the $1,500,000 Secured Convertible Note issued to Cornell Capital Partners, LP, all in connection with our $9,000,000 financing with Cornell Capital, LP, Certain Wealth, Ltd. and TAIB Bank, B.S.C. consisting of (i) a $7,500,000 tranche of financing with a closing date of April 25, 2006 and (ii) the extension to this $7,500,000 financing with an additional $1,500,000 tranche of financing with a closing date of August 3, 2006 (the total financing with Cornell Capital Partners, LP, Certain Wealth, Ltd, and TAIB Bank was for $9,000,000), also known as the $9,000,000 Financing (all such notes are collectively known as the Secured Convertible Notes), if certain events occur. If an event of default occurs, Cornell Capital Partners, LP, as the holder of the $5,500,000 Amended and Restated Secured Convertible Note, the $1,500,000 Secured Convertible Note, Certain Wealth, Ltd, as the holder of the $1,000,000 Amended and Restated Secured Convertible Note; and TAIB Bank, B.S.C., as the holder of the $1,000,000 Amended and Restated Secured Convertible Note can each elect to require us to pay all of the outstanding principal amount of each respective Secured Convertible Note, plus all other accrued and unpaid amounts under the respective Secured Convertible Note. Some of the events of default include matters over which we may have some, little or no control. If a default occurs and we cannot pay the amounts payable under the respective Secured Convertible Note in cash (including any interest on such amounts and any applicable late fees under the Secured Convertible Notes), each of Cornell Capital Partners, LP, Certain Wealth, Ltd, and TAIB Bank, B.S.C. may each protect and enforce its respective rights or remedies either by suit in equity or by action at law, or both, whether for the specific performance of any covenant, agreement or other provision contained in the respective Secured Convertible Notes, in the related securities purchase agreement or in any document or instrument delivered in connection with or pursuant to the Secured Convertible Notes issued Cornell Capital Partners, LP, Certain Wealth, Ltd, or TAIB Bank, B.S.C., or to enforce the payment of the respective outstanding Secured Convertible Note or any other legal or equitable right or remedy. This would have an adverse effect on our continuing operations. Existing shareholders will experience significant dilution when Cornell Capital Partners, LP converts its $2,500,000 Convertible Note and exercises its 250,000 ADS Warrant. The conversion of the $2,500,000 Convertible Note into ADSs and the issuance of ADSs upon the exercise of the 250,000 ADS Warrant, issued to Cornell Capital Partners, LP in connection with the December 19, 2005 financing with Cornell Capital Partners, LP, also known as the $2,500,000 Financing, will have a dilutive impact on our shareholders since Cornell Capital Partners, LP may ultimately convert the full amount of the $2,500,000 Convertible Note and exercise the full amount of the 250,000 ADS Warrant and sell all of these ADSs into the public market. As a result, our net income or loss per share could decrease in future periods, and the market price of ADSs could decline. In addition, the lower our stock price is, the more ADSs we will have to issue pursuant to the discount conversion price of the $2,500,000 Convertible Note. If our stock price is lower, then our existing shareholders will experience greater dilution. 20 Existing shareholders will experience significant dilution when Cornell Capital Partners, LP, Certain Wealth, Ltd. and TAIB Bank, B.S.C. convert, in the aggregate, their $9,000,000 in Secured Convertible Notes and when Cornell Capital Partners, LP exercises, in the aggregate, its Warrants worth 4,750,000 ADS The conversion of (i) the $5,500,000 Amended and Restated Secured Convertible Note issued to Cornell Capital Partners, LP into ADSs, (ii) the $1,000,000 Amended and Restated Secured Convertible Note issued to Certain Wealth, Ltd, into ADSs (iii) the $1,000,000 Amended and Restated Secured Convertible Note issued to TAIB Bank, B.S.C. into ADSs;(iv) the $1,500,000 Secured Convertible Note issued to Cornell Capital Partners, LP, into ADSs and the issuance of ADSs upon the exercise of the 4,000,000 ADS Warrant and 750,000 ADS Warrant issued to Cornell Capital Partners, LP, all in connection with the $9,000,000 financing with Cornell Capital, LP, Certain Wealth, Ltd. and TAIB Bank, B.S.C. consisting of (i) a $7,500,000 tranche of financing with a closing date of April 25, 2006 and (ii) the extension to this $7,500,000 financing with an additional $1,500,000 tranche of financing with a closing date of August 3, 2006 (the total financing with Cornell Capital Partners, LP, Certain Wealth, Ltd, and TAIB Bank was for $9,000,000), also known as the $9,000,000 Financing (the notes issued in the $9,000,000 Financing are also known as the Secured Convertible Notes),will have a dilutive impact on our shareholders since Cornell Capital Partners, LP, Certain Wealth, Ltd. and TAIB Bank, B.S.C. may ultimately convert the full amount of their respective Secured Convertible Notes and Cornell Capital Partners, LP may ultimately exercise the full amount of the 4,000,000 ADS Warrant and the 750,000 ADS Warrant and sell all of these ADSs into the public market. As a result, our net income or loss per share could decrease in future periods, and the market price of ADSs could decline. In addition, the lower our stock price is, the more ADSs we will have to issue pursuant to the discount conversion price of the Secured Convertible Notes. If our stock price is lower, then our existing shareholders will experience greater dilution. Risks Relating to Operations in the United Kingdom Our international sales could be adversely affected by changes in domestic and foreign trade regulations. While we sell non-UK-produced products, we generally purchase them from associates of foreign suppliers. Our ability to remain competitive with respect to the pricing of the imported components could be adversely affected by increases in tariffs or duties, currency fluctuations, changes in trade treaties, strikes in air or sea transportation, and possible future European legislation with respect to pricing and import quotas on products from non-EU countries. Our ability to be competitive in or with the sales of imported components also could be affected by other governmental actions related to, among other things, anti-dumping legislation and international currency fluctuations. Fluctuations in the exchange rates of European currencies and the other foreign currencies in which we conduct business, in relation to the U.S. dollar, have harmed and could continue to harm our business and prospects. A majority of our revenues to date have been received in pounds sterling and we maintain our financial statements in pounds sterling. However, revenues and proceeds of funding activities are sometimes received in US dollars, euros and other European currencies, which are translated into pounds sterling as our functional currency. Fluctuations in the value of the pound sterling against the US dollar, euro and other European currencies have caused, and are likely to cause, amounts translated into pounds sterling to fluctuate in comparison with previous periods. We currently do not engage in any hedging transactions that might have the effect of minimizing the consequences of currency exchange fluctuations. Fluctuations in exchange rates may adversely affect the reported results of our operations. 21 English courts may not enforce judgments rendered outside England. We are incorporated under English law. The rights of holders of the ADSs are largely governed by English law, including the Companies Act 1985, and by our Memorandum and Articles of Association. These rights differ in certain respects from the rights of shareholders in typical US corporations. Although certain provisions of English law resemble various provisions of the corporation laws of the United States and other European countries, principles of law relating to such matters as the fiduciary duties of management and the rights of our shareholders may differ from those that would apply if we were incorporated in another country. Also, English employment law imposes substantial severance obligations on companies. Additionally, all of our assets are located in the United Kingdom. Most of our executive officers and directors, and certain of the experts named herein are not residents of the United States, and all or substantial portions of the assets of such persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States upon such persons or to enforce against such persons or us any judgments of United States courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities or other laws of the United States. 22 ITEM 