D RISK FACTORS. This Report contains forward-looking statements, which involve risks and uncertainties. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including those set forth in the following Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Report. Reliance on Corporate Customers; Lengthy Sales Cycle A substantial portion of the Company's revenues are derived from sales of its products and services to large corporate customers and public sector organizations that often use the Company's products through the UK's Home Computing Initiative ("HCI") scheme whereby the Company provides products and services directly to customers' employees, in their own homes. Customers demand highly reliable products and services to be provided to their employees, and often implement a lengthy selection process in order to determine the successful supplier. This process can take up to several months before the customer commits to purchase.. Such selection processes are commonly based on the Company providing access to demonstration material based on existing solutions produced for other customers and frequently require significant pre-sales activity. The sales volume of some of the Company's hosted and Learning For AllTM ("LFA") solutions will be significantly dependent on acceptance and adoption of the product by the customer's employees. Some of the Company's customers may also source third party e-Learning content products that compete with the Company's products. These customers could give higher priority to the use of competing products. Some of the Company's customers do not have exclusive or long-term purchase obligations with the Company. The failure of customers to decide to purchase the Company's products after the Company spends significant marketing resources and the possibility that customers may source third party competing products could each have a material adverse impact on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Reliance on Significant Customers For the fiscal year ended April 30, 2005, the Company's two largest customers together represented approximately 82% of gross sales of the Company. The loss of either of these major customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. 8 Seasonal Demand for Products The demand for the Company's products is generally expected to be stronger in the second half of the fiscal year (which ends on April 30) and weaker in the first half due to seasonal buying patterns in the UK and the rest of Europe, as well as the seasonality created by the timing of the client-internal marketing campaigns for Learning For AllTM products, which tend to peak in the third fiscal quarter, with deliveries scheduled by Christmas. The shifts in demand for the Company's products may make it difficult to plan delivery capacity and business operations efficiently. If demand is significantly below expectations the Company may be unable rapidly to reduce fixed costs, which can diminish gross margins and cause losses. A downturn in demand may also leave the Company with excess inventory, which may be rendered obsolete or overvalued as products evolve during the downturn and demand shifts to new products or prices fall. Conversely, in upturns in demand, the Company may incur expenses to expedite delivery of products, procure scarce components and outsource additional manufacturing processes. These expenses could reduce the Company's gross margins and overall profitability. Any of these results could seriously harm the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Volatility of Stock Price The market price for the ADSs has been and may continue to be highly volatile. Consequently, the current market price of the Company's ADSs may not be indicative of its future market prices, the Company may be unable to sustain or increase the value of an investment in its ADSs. The Company believes that a variety of factors could cause the price of the Company's ADSs to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including: - announcements and rumors of technological innovations or new products by the Company or its competitors; - variations in anticipated or actual operating results; - changes in regulations and other factors relating to the UK Government's Home Computing Initiatives; - general conditions in the e-Learning market; - general conditions in the worldwide economy; - conditions and general economic conditions that may have a significant impact on the market price of the ADSs; and - developments in the Company's relationships with its customers and suppliers. Listing Maintenance Criteria for Nasdaq System; Disclosure Relating to Low-Priced Stocks The Company's ADSs, as evidenced by ADRs, which in turn evidence the Company's Ordinary Shares, are currently traded on the Nasdaq SmallCap Market. No assurance can be given that an orderly trading market will be sustained in the future. Also, Nasdaq requires that, in order for a company's securities to continue to be listed on the Nasdaq SmallCap Market, the company must maintain either a minimum stockholders' equity of $2,500,000, $35,000,000 in market capitalization or net income of $500,000 in the most recently completed fiscal year or in two of the last three most recently completed fiscal years. The Company had unaudited stockholders' negative equity of $1,642,000 at June 30, 2005, net loss for the financial year ended April 30, 2005 of $7,550,000 and a market capitalization of $55 million on July 29, 2005. In addition, effective May 29, 2006, the continued listing of the Company's ADSs will be subject to a $1.00 minimum bid price. On July 29, 2005, the last bid price for the Company's ADSs was $0.611. The failure to meet these listing maintenance criteria in the future may result in the delisting of the Company's ADSs from the Nasdaq SmallCap Market. There can be no assurances that the Company will be able to continue to satisfy the applicable standards for continued listing on the Nasdaq Smallcap Market. A failure to maintain such listing could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and financial condition and on the liquidity and market value of the ADSs. 9 In addition, in the event the Company's ADSs are delisted from the Nasdaq SmallCap Market, the Company's ADSs and Ordinary Shares may become subject to the "penny stock" rules of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission"). A "penny stock" is generally an equity security with a market price of less than $5.00 per share which is not quoted through the Nasdaq system or a national securities exchange in the US. Due to the risks involved in an investment in penny stocks, US securities laws and regulations impose certain requirements and limitations on broker/dealers who recommend penny stocks to persons other than their established customers and accredited investors, including making a special written suitability determination for the purchaser, providing purchasers with a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and its risks and obtaining the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction prior to the sale. These requirements may limit the ability of broker/dealers to sell penny stocks. Also, because of these requirements and limitations, many broker/dealers may be unwilling to sell penny stocks at all. In the event the Company's Ordinary Shares become subject to the Commission's rules relating to penny stock, the trading market for the ADSs may be materially adversely affected. Dependence on UK Government Home Computing Initiative Most of the Company's revenues derive from the implementation of the Company's Learning For AllTM programs, which take advantage of the UK Government's Home Computing Initiatives ("HCI"), aimed at raising computer literacy within the UK. Under such schemes, individuals may purchase tax deductible home computing equipment, which not only spreads the cost over three years, but also reduces the individual's income tax liability. The UK Government launched its HCI initiative in 1999, with a re-launch in January 2004 to re-energize the program. Since the re-launch, the market has rapidly grown as the benefits to individuals and their employers become better understood. The government has similarly allowed the tax deductible purchase of bicycles, childcare vouchers and mobile phones, and also clarified the legal relationship of HCI schemes with existing consumer legislation during the late summer of 2004. The ultimate success, however, of these schemes is determined by the takeup of the offering by the employees of the client. These takeup rates have been extremely difficult to predict, and there is no assurance that every scheme will be financially successful for the Company, though every effort is made to evaluate the potential level of participation before each client is engaged. The continued existence and development of HCI is dependent on the strategy and policies of the UK government. There can be no assurance that such initiatives will continue at all or in a manner that will enable to the Company to successfully develop and markets its products and services. Any discontinuation or material change in HCI or in the UK Government's strategy with respect to tax-favored employee benefit programs could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and result of operations. Dependence on Market for e-Learning Revenues derived from the sale of e-Learning solutions are directly or indirectly related to spending and investment plans of large corporate businesses and public sector organizations on net-based learning technologies and associated services. These large businesses and public sector organizations may be subject to significant fluctuations as a consequence of general economic conditions, industry patterns or other factors affecting such spending and investment. Expenditures for products and services such as the Company's are directly affected by these fluctuations. The Company expects that its operations will continue to depend on these factors. Fluctuations, downturns or slowdowns in these large businesses could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 Competition The HCI and net-based learning businesses remain rapidly evolving with a growing number of competitors and are subject to rapid technological change. The Company currently competes both with smaller UK based companies as well as larger multinational firms in the development and implementation of net-based learning products and the offering of programs under the HCI. Some of these competitors are more established, better capitalized and have a better market position than the Company. In addition, these competitors may have the ability to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies, may adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements and may devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products and services than the Company. The Company may also have a cost disadvantage compared to competitors who have greater direct buying power from suppliers or who have lower cost structures. Early Stage of Market Development The markets for most of the Company's products, particularly its HCI products, are at a relatively early stage of development and customer acceptance. Broader acceptance of the Company's products will depend on customer and end-user reaction to those products and the price and performance of the Company's and its competitors' products. The Company believes that the development of these markets will, in part, depend on the success of the Company's efforts to inform and demonstrate to its customers the perceived efficacy of the Company's products. According to research undertaken by the UK's Employee Benefits Association, published in July 2005, into voluntary benefits schemes, approximately 34% of respondents already offer home computing schemes, with a further 35% still planning to add home computers to their existing benefits offering. However, these markets may never develop further and the Company's products may not achieve broader market acceptance, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations New Products and Technological Change The Company's business will be significantly influenced by technological changes and innovations. The market for the Company's products is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent introductions of new products. The Company has historically derived a significant portion of its revenues from the sale of new and enhanced products. The Company's future success will depend upon its ability to enhance its existing products and to source, develop and introduce, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new competitive products with features that meet changing customer requirements and address technological developments. The Company's products could be rendered obsolete by new customer requirements or the emergence of new technologies. The failure of the Company to develop, manufacture and sell new products and product enhancements in quantities sufficient to offset a decline in revenues from existing products or to manage product transitions successfully would have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. As new products are introduced, the Company must attempt to monitor closely the range of its products to be replaced and to phase out their production and distribution in a controlled manner. There can be no assurance, however, that such product transitions will be executed without adversely affecting overall product sales or that the Company will be successful in identifying, developing, and marketing new products or enhancing its existing products. The development of new products has required, and will continue to require, the Company to spend significant financial and management resources. The Company's business would be materially adversely affected if the Company were to incur delays in developing new products or enhancements or if such products or enhancements did not gain market acceptance. In addition, there can be no assurance that products or technologies developed by one or more of the Company's present or potential competitors could not render obsolete both present and future products of the Company. 11 There is no assurance that the useful life of any product will be long enough to enable the Company to recover its development costs. In addition, sales of certain of the Company's products generally may tend to decline over time unless the products are enhanced or repackaged. Changing Customer Preferences Primarily impacting the eLearning segment, customer preferences for instructional learning programs, entertainment and other software products are continually changing. There can be no assurance that the Company's products will receive and/or maintain substantial market acceptance. Changes in customer preferences could adversely affect levels of market acceptance of the Company's products and its operating results. Absence of Patent Protection The Company has no patents with respect to its product design or production processes. In choosing not to seek patent protection, the Company instead has relied on the complexity of its technology, its trade secret protection policies, common law trade secret laws, copyrights, and confidentiality and/or license agreements entered into with its employees, suppliers, sales agents, customers and potential customers. As a part of its trade secret protection policies, the Company tries to limit access to, and distribution of, its software, related documentation and other proprietary information. There can be no assurance that such strategy will prevent or deter others from using the Company's products to develop equivalent or superior products or technology, or from doing so independently. Further, there can be no assurance that the Company will seek or obtain patent protection for future technological developments or that any patents that may be granted in the future would be enforceable or would provide the Company with meaningful protection from competitors. Moreover, litigation by the Company to enforce or defend its proprietary rights could result in significant expense to the Company and divert the efforts of the Company's technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation results in a favorable outcome for the Company. In order to avoid such expense or diversion of resources, the Company could agree to enter into a license agreement or other settlement arrangement, notwithstanding the Company's continuing belief in its position. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company's products do not, and that its proposed products will not, infringe any patents or rights of others. If a patent infringement claim is asserted against the Company, whether or not the Company is successful in defending such claim, the defense of such claim may be very costly. While the Company is unable to predict what costs, if any, would be incurred if the Company were obliged to devote substantial financial or management resources to patent litigation, its ability to fund its operations and to pursue its business goals may be substantially impaired. 12 Absence of Dividends The Company has not paid cash dividends during its history with the exception of a dividend paid in 1990. It is unlikely that the Company will declare or pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Changes in Exchange Rates A majority of the Company's revenues to date have been received in pounds sterling and the Company maintains its financial statements in pounds sterling. However, revenues and proceeds of funding activities are sometimes received in US dollars, euros and other European currencies, which are translated into pounds sterling as the Company's functional currency. Fluctuations in the value of the pound sterling against the US dollar, euro and other European currencies have caused, and are likely to cause, amounts translated into pounds sterling to fluctuate in comparison with previous periods. The Company currently does not engage in any hedging transactions that might have the effect of minimizing the consequences of currency exchange fluctuations. Such fluctuations may adversely affect the Company's results of operations. Risks of Possible Future Acquisitions The Company may pursue potential acquisitions of businesses, products or technologies that could complement or expand the Company's business. If the Company identifies an acquisition candidate, the Company cannot assure that the Company would be able to integrate such acquired businesses, products or technologies into the Company's existing business and products. The negotiation of potential acquisitions as well as the integration of an acquired business could cause diversion of management's time and resources. Any potential acquisition, whether or not consummated, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. If the Company consummates one or more significant acquisitions in which consideration consists of Ordinary Shares, stockholders of the Company could suffer significant dilution of their interests in the Company. In addition, the Company could incur or assume substantial debt in connection with an acquisition. Such debt could adversely affect the Company's ability to obtain financing for working capital or other purposes, make the Company more vulnerable to economic downturns and competitive pressures and have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Possible Issuance of Additional Shares As at July 29, 2005, the Company presently has outstanding options pursuant to which an aggregate of 5,188,899 Ordinary Shares may be issued upon exercise thereof. The issuance of any additional Ordinary Shares, whether upon the exercise of derivative securities, including options and/or warrants, in connection with a financing or otherwise, including additional Ordinary Shares issueable as a consequence of any anti-dilution provisions set forth in the instruments evidencing such derivative securities, would reduce the proportionate ownership and voting power of then-existing Stockholders. Risks Associated with Incorporation in England and Wales The Company is incorporated under English law. The rights of holders of the Shares are largely governed by English law, including the Companies Act 1985, and by the Company's Memorandum and Articles of Association. These rights differ in certain respects from the rights of stockholders in typical US corporations. Although certain provisions of English law resemble various provisions of the corporation laws of the United States and other European countries, principles of law relating to such matters as the fiduciary duties of management and the rights of the Company's stockholders may differ from those that would apply if the Company were incorporated in another country. In addition, English employment law imposes substantial severance obligations on companies. 13 Service and Enforcement of Legal Process All of the Company's assets are located in the United Kingdom. Most of the Company's executive officers and directors, and certain of the experts named herein are not residents of the United States, and all or substantial portions of the assets of such persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States upon such persons or to enforce against such persons or the Company any judgments of United States courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities or other laws of the United States. 14 