Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, stockholders or prospective investors should carefully consider the following risk factors: Our business may be adversely affected by the continued downturn in the United States economy and the difficult market conditions in our industry. Since 2007, the United States economy has experienced a severe downturn that continued in 2009. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions is greatly reduced, and many businesses and local governments are experiencing serious difficulty in remaining profitable due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. Over the past few years, unemployment in the United States has increased significantly. As a result of this economic downturn, many lending institutions, including us, have experienced declines in the performance of their loans, including commercial loans, commercial real estate loans and consumer loans. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Moreover, competition among depository institutions for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have been negatively affected, and the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets has become more difficult in recent years. If the current weak economic conditions continue or worsen, our business, growth and profitability are likely to suffer. A continued downturn in economic conditions could affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provision for credit losses. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial services industry. Overall, during the past year, the general business environment has had an adverse effect on our business, and there can be no assurance that the environment will improve in the near term. Until conditions improve, we expect our business, financial condition and results of operations to be adversely affected. 7 Table of Contents Our business is concentrated in and dependent upon the continued growth and welfare of the Quad City, Cedar Rapids, and Rockford markets. We operate primarily in the Quad City, Cedar Rapids, and Rockford markets, and as a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are subject to changes in the economic conditions in those areas. We have developed a particularly strong presence in Bettendorf, Cedar Rapids and Davenport, Iowa and Moline and Rockford, Illinois and their surrounding communities. Our success depends upon the business activity, population, income levels, deposits and real estate activity in these markets. Although our customers’ business and financial interests may extend well beyond these market areas, adverse economic conditions that affect these market areas could reduce demand for our products and services, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us, increase the levels of our non-performing and problem loans, and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. Because of our geographic concentration, we are less able than other regional or national financial institutions to diversify our credit risks across multiple markets. Liquidity risks could affect operations and jeopardize our business, results of operations and financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our primary sources of funds consist of cash from operations, deposits, investment maturities and calls, and loan/lease repayments. Additional liquidity is provided by federal funds purchased from the Federal Reserve Bank or other correspondent banks, FHLB advances, wholesale and customer repurchase agreements, brokered time deposits, and the ability to borrow at the Federal Reserve Bank’s Discount Window. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance or capitalize our activities or on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us directly or the financial services industry or economy in general, such as further disruptions in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry. Since late 2007, the financial services industry and the credit markets generally have been materially and adversely affected by significant declines in asset values and by a lack of liquidity. The liquidity issues have been particularly acute for regional and community banks, as many of the larger financial institutions have significantly curtailed their lending to regional and community banks to reduce their exposure to the risks of other banks. In addition, many of the larger correspondent lenders have reduced or even eliminated federal funds lines for their correspondent customers. Furthermore, regional and community banks generally have less access to the capital markets than do the national and super-regional banks because of their smaller size and limited analyst coverage. Any decline in available funding could adversely impact our ability to originate loans/leases, invest in securities, meet our expenses, pay dividends to our shareholders, or fulfill obligations such as repaying our borrowings or meeting deposit withdrawal demands, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, business, results of operations and financial condition. We face intense competition in all phases of our business from other banks and financial institutions. The banking and financial services businesses in our markets are highly competitive. Our competitors include large regional banks, local community banks, savings and loan associations, securities and brokerage companies, mortgage companies, insurance companies, finance companies, money market mutual funds, credit unions and other non-bank financial services providers. Many of these competitors are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as we are. Many of our unregulated competitors compete across geographic boundaries and are able to provide customers with a feasible alternative to traditional banking services. Additionally, if the regulatory trend toward reducing restrictions on the interstate operations of financial institutions continues, we will continue to experience increased competition as a result. Increased competition in our markets may result in a decrease in the amounts of our loans and deposits, reduced spreads between loan rates and deposit rates or loan terms that are more favorable to the borrower. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow and remain profitable. If increased competition causes us to significantly discount the interest rates we offer on loans or increase the amount we pay on deposits, our net interest income could be adversely impacted. If increased competition causes us to modify our underwriting standards, we could be exposed to higher losses from lending activities. Additionally, many of our competitors are much larger in total assets and capitalization, have greater access to capital markets, have larger lending limits and offer a broader range of financial services than we can offer. 8 Table of Contents Our community banking strategy relies heavily on our subsidiaries’ independent management teams, and the unexpected loss of key managers may adversely affect our operations. We rely heavily on the success of our bank subsidiaries’ independent management teams. Accordingly, much of our success to date has been influenced strongly by our ability to attract and to retain senior management experienced in banking and financial services and familiar with the communities in our market areas. Our ability to retain the executive officers, current management teams, branch managers and loan officers of our operating subsidiaries will continue to be important to the successful implementation of our strategy. It is also critical, as we manage our existing portfolio and grow, to be able to attract and retain qualified additional management and loan officers with the appropriate level of experience and knowledge about our market areas to implement our community-based operating strategy. The unexpected loss of services of any key management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 that was signed into law in February 2009 includes extensive new restrictions on our ability to pay retention awards, bonuses and other incentive compensation during the period in which we have any outstanding securities held by the U.S. Treasury that were issued under the Capital Purchase Program. Many of the restrictions may not be limited to our senior executives and could cover other employees whose contributions to revenue and performance can be significant. The limitations may adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain these key employees in addition to our senior executive officers, especially if we are competing for talent against institutions that are not subject to the same restrictions. The Federal Reserve, and perhaps the FDIC, are contemplating proposed rules governing the compensation practices of financial institutions and these rules, if adopted, may make it more difficult to attract and retain the people we need to operate our businesses and limit our ability to promote our objectives through our compensation and incentive programs. We are required to maintain capital to meet regulatory requirements, and if we fail to maintain sufficient capital, whether due to losses, an inability to raise additional capital or otherwise, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, as well as our ability to maintain regulatory compliance, would be adversely affected. The Company and each of its banking subsidiaries are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support their operations. Our ability to raise additional capital, when and if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, including investor perceptions regarding the banking industry and market condition, and governmental activities, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial condition and performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. Our failure to meet these capital and other regulatory requirements could affect customer confidence, our ability to grow, our costs of funds and FDIC insurance costs, our ability to pay dividends on common and preferred stock and to make distributions on our trust preferred securities, our ability to make acquisitions, and our business, results of operations and financial condition. 9 Table of Contents Interest rates and other conditions impact our results of operations. Our profitability is in large part a function of the spread between the interest rates earned on investments and loans/leases and the interest rates paid on deposits and other interest bearing liabilities. Like most banking institutions, our net interest spread and margin will be affected by general economic conditions and other factors, including fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government, that influence market interest rates and our ability to respond to changes in such rates. At any given time, our assets and liabilities will be such that they are affected differently by a given change in interest rates. As a result, an increase or decrease in rates, the length of loan/lease terms or the mix of adjustable and fixed rate loans/leases in our portfolio could have a positive or negative effect on our net income, capital and liquidity. We measure interest rate risk under various rate scenarios and using specific criteria and assumptions. A summary of this process, along with the results of our net interest income simulations is presented at “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” included under Item 7A of Part II of this Form 10-K. Although we believe our current level of interest rate sensitivity is reasonable and effectively managed, significant fluctuations in interest rates may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must effectively manage our credit risk. There are risks inherent in making any loan, including risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers, risks of nonpayment, risks resulting from uncertainties as to the future value of collateral and risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions. We attempt to minimize our credit risk through prudent loan application approval procedures, careful monitoring of the concentration of our loans within specific industries and periodic independent reviews of outstanding loans by our credit review department and an external third party. However, we cannot assure you that such approval and monitoring procedures will reduce these credit risks. The majority of our subsidiary banks’ loan portfolios are invested in commercial and industrial and commercial real estate loans, and we focus on lending to small to medium-sized businesses. The size of the loans we can offer to commercial customers is less than the size of the loans that our competitors with larger lending limits can offer. This may limit our ability to establish relationships with the area’s largest businesses. Smaller companies tend to be at a competitive disadvantage and generally have limited operating histories, less sophisticated internal record keeping and financial planning capabilities and fewer financial resources than larger companies. As a result, we may assume greater lending risks than financial institutions that have a lesser concentration of such loans and tend to make loans to larger, more established businesses. Collateral for these loans generally includes accounts receivable, inventory, equipment and real estate. However, depending on the overall financial condition of the borrower, some loans are made on an unsecured basis. In addition to commercial and commercial real estate loans, our subsidiary banks are also active in residential mortgage and consumer lending. Should the economic climate worsen, our borrowers may experience financial difficulties, and the level of non-performing loans, charge-offs and delinquencies could rise, which could negatively impact our business. Commercial and industrial loans make up a large portion of our loan/lease portfolio. Commercial and industrial loans/leases were $441.5 million, or approximately 35% of our total loan/lease portfolio, as of December 31, 2009. Our commercial and industrial loans are primarily made based on the identified cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. Most often, this collateral is accounts receivable, inventory, equipment and real estate. Credit support provided by the borrower for most of these loans and the probability of repayment is based on the liquidation value of the pledged collateral and enforcement of a personal guarantee, if any exists. Whenever possible, we require a personal guarantee on commercial loans. As a result, in the case of loans secured by accounts receivable, the availability of funds for the repayment of these loans may be substantially dependent on the ability of the borrower to collect amounts due from its customers. The collateral securing these loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. In addition, a continued decline in the United States economy or a prolonged recovery period could harm or continue to harm the businesses of our commercial and industrial customers and reduce the value of the collateral securing these loans. 10 Table of Contents Our loan/lease portfolio has a significant concentration of commercial real estate loans, which involve risks specific to real estate value. Commercial real estate lending comprises a significant portion of our lending business. Specifically, commercial real estate loans were $556.0 million, or approximately 45% of our total loan/lease portfolio, as of December 31, 2009. Of this amount, $158.9 million, or approximately 29%, is owner-occupied. The market value of real estate securing our commercial real estate loans can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time as a result of market conditions in the geographic area in which the real estate is located. Adverse developments affecting real estate values in one or more of our markets could increase the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio. Additionally, real estate lending typically involves higher loan principal amounts and the repayment of the loans generally is dependent, in large part, on sufficient income from the properties securing the loans to cover operating expenses and debt service. Economic events or governmental regulations outside of the control of the borrower or lender could negatively impact the future cash flow and market values of the affected properties. The problems that have occurred in the residential real estate and mortgage markets throughout much of the United States have begun to spread to the commercial real estate market. In our market areas, we have generally experienced a downturn in credit performance by our commercial real estate loan customers, and in light of the uncertainty that exists in the economy and credit markets, there can be no guarantee that we will not experience further deterioration in the performance of commercial real estate and other real estate loans in the future. In such case, we may not be able to realize the amount of security that we anticipated at the time of originating the loan, which could cause us to increase our provision for loan losses and adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and/or capital. Our allowance for loan/lease losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb potential losses in our loan/lease portfolio. We established our allowance for loan/lease losses in consultation with management of our subsidiaries and maintain it at a level considered adequate by management to absorb loan/lease losses that are inherent in the portfolio. The amount of future loan/lease losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which may be beyond our control, and such losses may exceed current estimates. At December 31, 2009, our allowance for loan/lease losses as a percentage of total gross loans/leases was 1.81% and as a percentage of total nonperforming loans/leases was approximately 75%. Because of the concentration of commercial and industrial and commercial real estate loans in our loan portfolio, which tend to be larger in amount than residential real estate loans, the movement of a small number of loans to nonperforming status can have a significant impact on these ratios. Although management believes that the allowance for loan/lease losses as of December 31, 2009 was adequate to absorb losses on any existing loans/leases that may become uncollectible, in light of the current economic environment, we cannot predict loan/lease losses with certainty, and we cannot assure you that our allowance for loan/lease losses will prove sufficient to cover actual loan/lease losses in the future, particularly if economic conditions worsen beyond what management currently expects. Additional provisions to the allowance for loan/lease losses and loan/lease losses in excess of our allowance for loan/lease losses may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s earnings. Recently, higher levels of bank failures have dramatically increased resolution costs of the FDIC and depleted the Deposit Insurance Fund. In addition, the FDIC instituted two temporary programs in 2008 to further insure customer deposits at FDIC-member banks through December 31, 2009: (1) deposit accounts are now insured up to $250,000 per customer (up from $100,000), and (2) non-interest bearing transactional accounts (as defined by the FDIC) are fully insured (unlimited coverage) for those institutions who opted into the program. These programs have placed additional stress on the Deposit Insurance Fund. On May 20, 2009, the FDIC extended the $250,000 per customer insurance limit through December 31, 2013. On August 26, 2009, the FDIC extended the unlimited insurance on non-interest bearing transaction accounts through June 30, 2010. 11 Table of Contents In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the Deposit Insurance Fund, the FDIC increased assessment rates of insured institutions uniformly by 7 cents for every $100 of deposits beginning with the first quarter of 2009, with additional changes effective April 1, 2009, which required riskier institutions to pay a larger share of premiums by factoring in rate adjustments based on secured liabilities and unsecured debt levels. On May 22, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule that imposed a special assessment on all insured depository institutions. Pursuant to the final rule, the FDIC imposed on the Company’s subsidiary banks special assessments in the total amount of $794,000, which was due and payable on September 30, 2009. On November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule that required insured depository institutions to prepay on December 30, 2009, their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011, and 2012. On December 30, 2009, our subsidiary banks paid the FDIC a total of $8.8 million in prepaid assessments. These actions by the FDIC significantly increased our noninterest expense in 2009 and are expected to increase our costs for the foreseeable future. We have a continuing need for technological change, and we may not have the resources to effectively implement new technology. The financial services industry continues to undergo rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to enabling us to better serve our customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and the potential for cost reduction. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations as we continue to grow our market share. Many of our larger competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. As a result, they may be able to offer additional or superior products to those that we will be able to offer, which would put us at a competitive disadvantage. Accordingly, we cannot provide you with assurance that we will be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing such products and services to our customers. System failure or breaches of our network security could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other liabilities. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event, as well as from security breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Computer break-ins, phishing and other disruptions could also jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to us and may cause existing and potential customers to refrain from doing business with us. Although we, with the help of third-party service providers, intend to continue to implement security technology and establish operational procedures to prevent such damage, there can be no assurance that these security measures will be successful. In addition, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms we and our third-party service providers use to encrypt and protect customer transaction data. A failure of such security measures could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, customer or employee fraud and data processing system failures and errors. Employee errors and employee and customer misconduct could subject us to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation. Misconduct by our employees could include hiding unauthorized activities from us, improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of our customers or improper use of confidential information. It is not always possible to prevent employee errors and misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Employee errors could also subject us to financial claims for negligence. 12 Table of Contents We maintain a system of internal controls and insurance coverage to mitigate against operational risks, including data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud. Should our internal controls fail to prevent or detect an occurrence, and if any resulting loss is not insured or exceeds applicable insurance limits, such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Government regulation can result in limitations on our operations. We operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to supervision and regulation by a number of governmental regulatory agencies, including Treasury, the Federal Reserve, the FDIC, the Iowa Superintendent, and the Illinois DFPR. Regulations adopted by these agencies, which are generally intended to provide protection for depositors and customers rather than for the benefit of stockholders, govern a comprehensive range of matters relating to ownership and control of our shares, our acquisition of other companies and businesses, permissible activities for us to engage in, maintenance of adequate capital levels and other aspects of our operations. These bank regulators possess broad authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law. In addition, as a result of ongoing challenges facing the United States economy, the potential exists for new laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards to be promulgated, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal or informal enforcement actions or orders. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Increased regulation could increase our cost of compliance and adversely affect profitability. For example, new legislation or regulation may limit the manner in which we may conduct our business, including our ability to offer new products, obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans and achieve satisfactory interest spreads. Failure to pay interest on our debt or dividends on our preferred stock may adversely impact our ability to pay common stock dividends. As of December 31, 2009, we had $36.1 million of junior subordinated debentures held by four business trusts that we control. Interest payments on the debentures, which totaled $2.1 million for 2009, must be paid before we pay dividends on our capital stock, including our common stock. We have the right to defer interest payments on the debentures for up to 20 consecutive quarters. However, if we elect to defer interest payments, all deferred interest must be paid before we may pay dividends on our capital stock. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had 568 shares of non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock issued and outstanding. Although these non-cumulative preferred shares will accrue no dividends, dividends will be payable on the preferred shares if declared, but no dividends may be declared on the Company’s common stock unless and until dividends have been declared on the outstanding shares. Deferral, of either interest payments on the debentures or preferred dividends on the preferred shares, could cause a subsequent decline in the market price of our common stock because the Company would not be able to pay dividends on its common stock. In addition, on February 13, 2009, we issued shares of cumulative perpetual senior preferred stock to Treasury as part of the Capital Purchase Program. The terms of the senior preferred stock restrict the payment of dividends on shares of our common stock. Without the prior consent of Treasury, we are prohibited from increasing common stock dividends for the first three years while Treasury holds the senior preferred stock. Further, we are prohibited from continuing to pay dividends on our common stock unless we have fully paid all required dividends on the senior preferred stock. Although we expect to be able to pay all required dividends on the senior preferred stock (and to continue to pay dividends on common stock at current levels), there is no guarantee that we will be able to do so. Declines in asset values may result in impairment charges and adversely affect the value of our investments, financial performance and capital. The market value of investments in our securities portfolio has become increasingly volatile over the past year, and as of December 31, 2009, we had gross unrealized losses of $2.3 million in our investment portfolio (more than offset by gross unrealized gains of $2.5 million). The market value of investments may be affected by factors other than the underlying performance of the servicer of the securities or the mortgages underlying the securities, such as ratings downgrades, adverse changes in the business climate and a lack of liquidity in the secondary market for certain investment securities. On a quarterly basis, we formally evaluate investments and other assets for impairment indicators. We may be required to record additional impairment charges if our investments suffer a decline in value that is considered other-than-temporary. If we determine that a significant impairment has occurred, we would be required to charge against earnings the credit-related portion of the other-than-temporary impairment, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the periods in which the write-offs occur. 13 Table of Contents We cannot predict the effect on our operations of recent legislative and regulatory initiatives that were enacted in response to the ongoing financial crisis. United States federal, state and foreign governments have taken or are considering taking extraordinary actions in an attempt to deal with the worldwide financial crisis. To the extent adopted, many of these actions have been in effect for only a limited time, and have produced limited or no relief to the capital, credit and real estate markets. There is no assurance that these actions or other actions under consideration will ultimately be successful. In the United States, the federal government adopted the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. With authority granted under these laws, the Treasury proposed a financial stability plan that is intended to: • invest in financial institutions and purchase troubled assets and mortgages from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the United States financial markets; • temporarily increase the limit on FDIC deposit insurance coverage to $250,000 per depositor through December 31, 2009 (which was recently extended to December 31, 2013 under the Helping Families Save Their Homes Act of 2009); and • provide for various forms of economic stimulus, including to assist homeowners restructure and lower mortgage payments on qualifying loans. Numerous other actions have been taken by the United States Congress, the Federal Reserve, the Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others to address the liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the sub-prime mortgage crisis that commenced in 2007, including the financial stability plan adopted by the Treasury. In addition, President Obama recently announced a financial regulatory reform proposal, and the House and Senate are expected to consider competing proposals over the coming years. There can be no assurance that the financial stability plan proposed by the Treasury, the other proposals under consideration or any other legislative or regulatory initiatives will be effective at dealing with the ongoing economic crisis and improving economic conditions globally, nationally or in our markets, or that the measures adopted will not have adverse consequences. The terms and costs of these activities, or the failure of these actions to help stabilize the financial markets, asset prices, market liquidity and a continuation or worsening of current financial market and economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading prices of our securities. Changes in future rules applicable to participants in the Capital Purchase Program could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. On February 13, 2009, we issued shares of perpetual senior preferred stock to Treasury as part of the Capital Purchase Program. The rules and policies applicable to recipients of capital under the Capital Purchase Program continue to evolve and their scope, timing and effect cannot be predicted. Any changes in these rules and policies could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents Any redemption of the securities sold to the U.S. Treasury to avoid these restrictions would require prior Federal Reserve and Treasury approval. Based on guidelines recently issued by the Federal Reserve, institutions seeking to redeem Capital Purchase Program preferred stock must demonstrate an ability to access the long-term debt markets, successfully demonstrate access to public equity markets and meet a number of additional requirements and considerations before such institutions can redeem any securities sold to the Treasury. The limitations on bonuses, retention awards, severance payments, and incentive compensation applicable to participants in the Capital Purchase Program may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees. For so long as any of the equity securities we issued to the U.S. Treasury under the Capital Purchase Program remain outstanding, we are subject to limitations on the payment of bonuses, retention awards, severance payments, and other incentive compensation to the Company’s five senior executive officers and up to the next 20 highest paid employees. These limitations may adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain key employees, including our executive officers, especially if we are competing for talent against institutions that are not subject to the same limitations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved staff comments. 15 Table of Contents 