ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business and an investment in our stock. Risk Factors Relating to Our Company and Our Business We are a research and development company. We have a limited operating history, we have generated no revenues since 1998, and it is difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. 3 We have been engaged in the research and development of our new line of energy efficient, mercury free light bulbs since May 2004, and have incurred significant operating losses in every fiscal year since our inception in 1996. We have not completed the design and manufacture of our product prototype and have not commenced commercial manufacturing. We have not generated any revenues since 1998 and we depend on third-party financing to fund operations. We have no operating history upon which an investor can evaluate our business and prospects, and we may never be successful or achieve profitability. Our business may fail if we are unable to obtain financing for our working capital needs. Our cash and cash equivalents of $1,014,512 as of December 31, 2007 are not sufficient to support our operations through fiscal 2008 and it will be necessary for us to seek additional financing. During 2008, we expect to continue to incur operating losses as we continue research and development expenditures on our light bulb technology, pursue product development, patent protection and enforcement, marketing and sales, and establishment and expansion of manufacturing and distribution capabilities. Our ability to implement our business plan for 2008 and our future operating success will be significantly impaired or delayed if we are unable to secure financing in the amounts and at the times needed to fund our working capital. We may seek to obtain funds through equity or debt financings, as well as through strategic financial partners. If we raise funds through the issuance of equity, equity-related or debt securities, these securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the rights of the common stock. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities could result in additional dilution to our stockholders. In addition, the issuance of debt securities could increase our risk or perceived risk. Such additional financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain sufficient cash to continue to fund operations or if we are unable to locate a strategic partner, we may be forced to seek protection from creditors under the bankruptcy laws or cease operations. Our auditors added an explanatory paragraph to their opinion on our fiscal 2007 financial statements stating that there was substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have a number of technology issues to resolve before we will be able to manufacture a commercially viable product. Although we have completed initial engineering of our light bulb, further development work and field testing will be necessary before the technology can be deployed. If we are unable to solve current and future technology issues, we will not be able to manufacture a commercially viable product. In addition, if we encounter unanticipated difficulty in solving technology issues, our research and development costs could substantially exceed budgeted amounts, and it may take longer to produce a commercially viable product. Our future operating results may depend upon our ability to manufacture our products at a competitive cost. To do so, we may have to develop manufacturing processes and the manufacturing capability that will allow us to produce high volumes of products at commercially viable yields. Because we have no experience with manufacturing our products, we may not be able to establish manufacturing capacity at a reasonable cost, maintain the quality of our products as production increases, or develop the administrative and operational infrastructure necessary to support expanded operations. If we fail to achieve volume production of its products with competitive yields at acceptable costs, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We must successfully develop, introduce, manufacture, market, and sell products and manage our operating expenses. To be a viable business, we must successfully develop commercial applications for our technology, introduce, manufacture market, and sell products and manage our operating expenses. Our products are in development and are subject to the risks inherent in the development of technology products, including unforeseen delays, expenses, patent challenges and complications frequently encountered in the development and commercialization of technology products, the dependence on and attempts to apply new and rapidly changing technology, and the competitive environment of the industry. Many of these events are beyond our control, such as unanticipated development requirements, delays in submitting documentation for and being granted patents and manufacturing problems. Our success also depends on our ability to maintain high levels of employee utilization, manage our production costs, sales and marketing costs and general and administrative expenses, and otherwise execute on our business plan. We may not be able to effectively and efficiently manage our development and growth. Any inability to do so could increase our expenses and negatively impact our results of operations. 4 We have incurred historical losses and as a result, may not be able to generate profits, support our operations, or establish a return on invested capital. We incurred losses in fiscal 2007 of $3,108,380 and have an accumulated deficit of $48,530,613 as of December 31, 2007. In addition, we expect to increase infrastructure and operating expenses to fund our anticipated growth. We cannot predict when or whether we will ever generate a profit or otherwise establish a return on invested capital. Our business strategies may not be successful and we may never generate significant revenues or profitability, in any future fiscal period or at all. Our future operating results are difficult to predict. Due to our limited operating history and the significant development and manufacturing objectives that it must achieve to be successful, our quarterly operating results will be difficult to predict and may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. In addition, the amount and duration of losses will be extended if we are unable to develop and manufacture our products in a timely manner. Factors that could inhibit our product and manufacturing development and future operating results include: · failure to solve existing or future technology-related issues in a timely manner; · failure to obtain sufficient financing when needed; · failure to secure key manufacturing or other strategic partnerships; and · competitive factors, including the introduction of new products, product enhancements and the introduction of new or improved technologies by our competitors, the entry of new competitors into the lighting markets and pricing pressures. We may fail to continue as a going concern, in which event you may lose your entire investment in our shares. Our audited financial statements have been prepared on the assumption that we will continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm has stated in their report on our 2007 financial statements that our recurring losses from operations and our difficulties in generating cash flow to meet our obligations and sustain our current level of operations raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We rely heavily on a few consultants and employees, the loss of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our future success will depend in significant part upon the continued services of our officers and directors and certain key consultants, and our ability to attract, assimilate and retain highly qualified technical, managerial and sales and marketing personnel when needed. Competition for quality personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we can retain our existing key personnel or that we will be able to attract, assimilate and retain such employees in the future when needed. The loss of key personnel or the inability to hire, assimilate or retain qualified personnel in the future could have a material adverse effect upon our business. We face currency risks associated with fluctuating foreign currency valuations. With our operations in the Czech Republic through Sendio, Sendio’s accounts, which currently primarily consist of lease payments, compensation, and other R&D and administration expenses, are denominated in the Czech Koruna (CZK) and the EUR. An increase in the value of the CZK and EUR in relation to the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on our operating expenses. In addition, we may engage in business in other counties, including in the European Union, and our operating results will be subject to fluctuations in the value of those currencies against the U.S. dollar. In addition, the financial statements for our Czech subsidiary are denominated in the CZK; accordingly, on a consolidated financial statement reporting basis, these numbers are translated into U.S. dollars and are affected by currency conversion rates. As of December 31, 2007, we have not entered into foreign currency contracts or other derivatives to mitigate the potential impact of foreign currency fluctuations. 5 Risk Factors Related to Our Industry We may be materially disadvantaged if we fail to keep pace with technological changes. The lighting industry is characterized by rapid technological change and evolving industry standards and is highly competitive with respect to timely product innovation. The introduction of products embodying new technology and the emergence of new industry standards can render existing products and technologies obsolete and unmarketable. Our success will depend in part on our ability to successfully develop commercial applications for our technology, anticipate and respond to technology developments and changes in industry standards, and obtain market acceptance on any products we introduce. We may not be successful in the development of our technology, and we encounter technical or other serious difficulties in our development or commercialization that would materially adversely affect our results of operations. We face intense competition. The lighting industry is very competitive and we expect this competition to continue to increase. The General Illumination Market segment within the lighting industry is dominated by a number of well-funded multi-national companies, such as General Electric Company, Phillips Electronics NV, Osram Sylvania, the North American operation of OSRAM GmbH, Germany, Siemens AG and Ushio Inc., have established products and are developing new products that compete with the products we are developing. We may not be able to compete effectively against these or other competitors, most of whom have substantially greater financial resources and operating experience than us. Many of our current and future competitors may have advantages over us, including: · well established products that dominate the market; · longer operating histories; · established customer bases; · substantially greater financial resources; · well established and significantly greater technical, research and development, manufacturing, sales and marketing resources, capabilities, and experience; and · greater name recognition. Our current and potential competitors have established, and may continue to establish in the future, cooperative relationships among themselves or with third-parties that would increase their market dominance and negatively impact our ability to compete with them. In addition, competitors may be able to adapt more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer needs, or to devote more resources to promoting and selling their products. If we fail to adapt to market demands and to compete successfully with existing and new competitors, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The market for lighting technology is changing rapidly and there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete, especially in light of our limited resources. There can be no assurance that any products that we develop and technologies can compete successfully on a cost, quality or market acceptance basis with these other products and technologies. We depend on our intellectual property. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may be unable to compete and our business may fail. Our success and ability to develop our technology and create new products and eventually compete depends to a significant degree on our ability to protect our proprietary technology, particularly any patentable material. We rely on a combination of patents, trade secret and other intellectual property law, nondisclosure agreements and other protective measures to preserve our rights pertaining to our technology. We have several patent applications pending; however, we cannot predict when or whether these patents will be granted. However, any intellectual property protection we seek may not preclude competitors from developing products similar to ours. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. 6 We do not have sufficient available resources to defend a lawsuit challenging our intellectual property rights or to prosecute others who may be infringing our rights. We compete in industries where competitors pursue patent prosecution worldwide and patent litigation is customary. At any given time, there may be one or more patent applications filed or patents that are the subject of litigation, which, if granted or upheld, could impair our ability to conduct our business without first obtaining licenses or granting cross-licenses, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We do not perform worldwide patent searches as a matter of custom and, at any given time, there could be patent applications pending or patents issued that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Other parties may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us, and our products may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of third parties. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time consuming and could divert management’s attention from our business and could result in the loss of significant rights. If there is a successful claim of infringement, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or license agreements which may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, we could be required to cease selling any of our products that infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. Successful claims of intellectual property infringement against us may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Even successful defense and prosecution of patent suits is costly and time consuming. We rely in part on unpatented proprietary technology, and others may independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, advisors and strategic partners to enter into confidentiality agreements. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of those trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. In particular, we may not be able to protect our proprietary information as we conduct discussions with potential strategic partners. If we are unable to protect the proprietary nature of our technologies, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Any commercial products we develop will be subject to extensive regulation, which will be costly. If our research and development efforts are successful, any commercial products that we develop will be subject to extensive regulation, both in the U.S. and internationally. Compliance with these laws and regulations will be costly and will incur significant management time. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to manufacture products will depend on the continuous supply and availability of raw materials. The principal raw materials that we expect to use in manufacturing our light bulbs include glass, electronic components and other required materials. Our business will be adversely affected by any impairment in the supply of these raw materials or by price increases. Also, because we are developing a new product, it is difficult to estimate market acceptance and demand for our products. If we materially underestimate demand for our products or are unable to secure sufficient raw materials, we might not be able to satisfy demand on a short-term basis. We do not have supply agreements in place for raw materials, and we will be subject to risk of fluctuations in supply and price. 7 Risks Relating to our Common Stock We do not intend to pay dividends, so any return on investment must come from appreciation We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock and do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to invest all future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Therefore, any investment return in our common stock must come from increases in the fair market value and trading price of our common stock. Our common stock is thinly traded. The trading volume of our common stock is thin. Therefore, there may not be a large number of potential purchasers ready to buy shares whenever a shareholder desires to sell. The public stock markets generally, and our shares specifically, are volatile and unpredictable. There can be no assurance that a shareholder will be able to dispose of his or her shares at the time he or she desires to do so or at the desired selling price. We have the right to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock, which may adversely affect the voting power of the holders of other of our securities and may deter hostile takeovers or delay changes in management control. Our Articles of Incorporation allow us to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock without further stockholder approval and upon such terms and conditions, and having such rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions as the board of directors may determine. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. In addition, the issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of, or of discouraging bids for control of our company. This could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of common stock. We have no current plans to issue any shares of preferred stock. Our common stock is considered a “penny stock.” Our common stock is subject to certain rules and regulations relating to “penny stock.” A “penny stock” is generally defined as any equity security that has a price less than $5.00 per share and that is not quoted on the NASDAQ Stock Market or a national securities exchange. Being a penny stock generally means that any broker who wants to trade in our shares (other than with established clients and certain institutional investors) must comply with certain “sales practice requirements,” including delivery to the prospective purchaser of the penny stock a risk disclosure document describing the penny stock market and the risks associated therewith. These penny stock rules make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend our common stock, and as a result, our stock holders may have difficulty in selling their shares in the secondary trading market. This lack of liquidity may also make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future through the sale of equity securities. We may be subject to sanctions from the SEC or NASD due to our failure to timely file periodic reports with the SEC. From 2003 through December 2006, we were not in compliance with our reporting obligations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In particular, we have failed to file any required annual, quarterly and other periodic reports since January 2003. We may be subject to sanctions from the SEC or from the NASD as a result of our deficient filings. Any such action may have an adverse effect on us or on the trading of our common stock. In December 2006, we filed with the SEC our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 and our quarterly reports on Form 10-QSB for each of the quarterly periods during fiscal 2006. We believe that we are current with our quarterly and annual filings through the date of this report on Form 10-K. 8 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES We own no real property. Our corporate headquarters are leased on a month-to-month basis. On October 31, 2007, Sendio, our wholly-owned subsidiary, entered into a non-residential premises lease agreement with Multidisplay, s.r.o., a company formed under the laws of the Czech Republic (“Multidisplay”) for certain facilities located in the Czech Republic. We are presently using the facilities to develop and assess the feasibility of manufacturing of our light bulbs. This lease is for approximately 420,000 square feet of office and manufacturing facilities in the city of Hranice, in the Czech Republic. The lease became effective on November 1, 2007 and the initial term expires on June 30, 2008, although Sendio has the right to extend the initial term of the lease, no later than April 30, 2008, for an additional nine years and three months, which such term shall end on October 31, 2017. Our decision whether to extend the term of the lease will depend, among other things, on our ability to obtain additional financing and the results of our manufacturing assessment. The rent for the initial term is EUR 1,575,000 (approximately $2,318,222 USD), and we issued 6,100,000 shares of common stock as payment in full of all amounts owing under the lease for the initial term. If the lease is extended for the extended term, the annual rent will be EUR 2,100,000 (approximately $3,091,000 USD), subject to annual increases of 2% commencing on January 1, 2009. Sendio is responsible for certain insurance, utilities, maintenance and other costs as described in the lease. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS We have no pending legal proceedings. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS No matters were submitted to a vote of our security holders during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. 9 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Our shares of common stock are presently quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol TEGN. Listed below are the high and low sale prices for the shares of our common stock during the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. These quotations reflect inter-dealer prices, without mark-up, mark-down or commission and may not represent actual transactions. High Low Fiscal 2006 First Quarter (ended March 31, 2006) $ 0.38 $ 0.16 Second Quarter (ended June 30, 2006) 0.30 0.12 Third Quarter (ended September 30, 2006) 0.25 0.12 Fourth Quarter (ended December 31, 2006) 0.30 0.12 Fiscal 2007 First Quarter (ended March 31, 2007) 0.45 0.25 Second Quarter (ended June 30, 2007) 0.50 0.25 Third Quarter (ended September 30, 2007) 1.01 0.36 Fourth Quarter (ended December 31, 2007) 0.51 0.23 As of December 31, 2007, there were 64,663,517 shares issued and outstanding and approximately 680 holders of record of our common stock. We believe that a significant number of beneficial owners of our common stock hold shares in street name. No dividends have ever been paid to holders of our common stock, and we do not anticipate paying dividends in the future. Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensations Plans On October 26, 2007, our Board of Directors approved the Telegen Corporation 2007 Stock Incentive Plan. A total of 10,000,000 shares of our common stock were authorized for issuance under the plan. The following table gives information as of December 31, 2007, the end of the most recently completed fiscal year, about shares of common stock that may be issued upon the exercise of options, warrants and rights under our 2007 Stock Incentive Plan. 10 Equity Compensation Plan Information Plan category Number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights Weighted-average exercise price of outstanding options, warrants and rights Number of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding securities reflected in column (a)) (a) (b) (c) Equity compensation plans approved by security holders - - - Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders 1,950,000 $ 0.33 6,250,500 Totals 1,950,000 $ 0.33 6,250,500 A description of the Telegen Corporation 2007 Stock Incentive Plan can be found in Note 7 to the financial statements contained in this report on Form 10-K. Sales of Unregistered Securities The following provides information regarding sales of equity securities by us during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, which were not registered under the Securities Act. · From January 4, 2007 to March 31, 2007, we sold an aggregate of 1,000,000 shares of common stock to a group of 3 accredited investors at a purchase price of $0.125 per share for gross proceeds of $125,000 to be used for working capital. Mark Weber, one of our directors, participated in the private placement, purchasing 400,000 shares and Richard Sellers, an officer and director, purchased 400,000 shares. The purchases by Mr. Weber and Mr. Sellers were made on identical terms to all other investors in the private placement. No commissions were paid in the private placement. The shares were offered and sold pursuant to the exemption from registration under Rule 506 of Regulation D of the Securities Act. · From June to September, 2007, we sold an aggregate of 8,333,334 shares of common stock to a group of twenty accredited investors at a purchase price of $0.30 per share for gross proceeds of $2,500,000 in a private placement. No commissions were paid in the private placement. The shares were offered and sold pursuant to the exemption from registration under Rule 506 of Regulation D of the Securities Act. · Effective November 1, 2007, we issued 6,100,000 shares of common stock to a foreign investor. We issued the shares as payment in full for all amounts, including rent, taxes, levies and other fees or payments of EUR 1,575,000 (approximately $2,275,000 USD), owing for the initial term under the premises lease entered into by our wholly-owned subsidiary, Sendio. See “