ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business and an investment in our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business We have historically been a research and development company. We have a limited operating history with minimal revenue to date, so it may be difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. We also received a going concern qualification in our 2010 audit. We have been primarily engaged during the last six years in the research and development of our lighting products, and have incurred significant operating losses. We have only recently commenced commercial manufacturing. We have not generated any revenues and we depend on third-party financing to fund our operations. We have a very limited operating history upon which an investor can evaluate our business and prospects, and we may never be successful or achieve profitability. Peterson Sullivan, LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm, in its opinion on our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010, raised substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern due to our net losses and negative cash flows from operations and other factors. We need significant additional financing in 2011. If we cannot obtain needed financings later this year, we may have to curtail our operations. Our cash on hand of approximately $120,000 as of December 31, 2010, and the net proceeds from our February 2011 financing of approximately $2.0 million, are not sufficient to support our operations through 2011, and we expect to need additional financing by the third quarter of this year. During 2010, we continued to incur operating losses as we continued development expenditures on our light bulb technology, pursued product production and sought to establish marketing and sales and distribution capabilities. Our ability to implement our business plan in 2011 and our future operations will be significantly impaired or delayed if we are unable to secure financing in the amounts and at the times needed to fund our working capital. We may seek to obtain funds through equity or debt financings, as well as through strategic financial partners. Such financing may not be available to us, or may only be available on financially unattractive terms or in insufficient amounts. If we are unable to obtain sufficient cash to continue to fund operations or if we are unable to locate a strategic partner, we may be forced to curtail or cease operations. Our independent registered public accounting firm added an explanatory paragraph to its opinion on our 2010 financial statements stating that there was substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have incurred historical losses and, as a result, may not be able to generate profits, support our operations or establish a return on invested capital, which can have a detrimental effect on the long-term capital appreciation of our stock. We incurred losses in 2010 of $4.6 million and had an accumulated deficit of $70.5 million as of December 31, 2010. We cannot predict when or whether we will ever generate a profit or otherwise establish a return on invested capital. We may never be profitable. Our business strategies may not be successful and we may never generate significant revenues or profitability, in any future fiscal period or at all. We have a number of technology issues to resolve before we will be able to successfully manufacture a full line of commercially viable products. Although we have completed initial engineering and obtained Underwriters Laboratories certification of our initial R30 light bulb, further development work and third-party testing will be necessary before the technology can be deployed and we can commence production of a full line of lighting products. Specifically, we are continuing to work on our standard Edisonian A19 screw-in light bulb, including obtaining acceptable life and output specifications. If we are unable to solve current and future technology issues, we will not be able to manufacture a full line of commercially viable products. In addition, if we encounter difficulty in solving technology issues, our research and development costs could increase substantially and our development and production schedules could be significantly delayed. 7 We have no experience manufacturing our ESL light bulbs on a large scale, commercial basis. Our future operating results will depend on our ability to manufacture our products. To do so, we will have to develop manufacturing processes and the manufacturing capability that will allow us to produce high volumes of products at commercially viable yields. Although we have developed manufacturing processes, we have no experience in manufacturing our products on a large scale, commercial basis. We do not know whether the processes we have developed or our manufacturing capabilities will be capable of supporting large-scale manufacturing, or whether we will be able to develop the other processes necessary for large-scale manufacturing of light bulbs that meet the requirements for cost, schedule, quality, engineering, design, production standards and volume requirements. Because we have limited experience with manufac turing our products, we may not be able to establish manufacturing capacity at a reasonable cost, maintain the quality of our products as production increases or develop the administrative and operational infrastructure necessary to support expanded operations. If we fail to develop or obtain the necessary manufacturing capabilities, or if we fail to achieve volume production of our products with competitive yields at acceptable costs, it will significantly alter our business plans and could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We have experienced significant delays in executing our business plan, and further delays will reduce the likelihood that we will be able to manufacture products or generate sufficient revenue to stay in business. We have previously experienced significant delays in executing our business plan. These delays are attributable to a number of factors, including: · unanticipated difficulties and increased expenses in developing our technology, · unanticipated difficulties in our manufacturing processes and · our inability to obtain funding in a timely manner. In the future, we may experience delays caused by these and other factors. Our business must be viewed in light of the problems, expenses, complications and delays frequently encountered in connection with the development of new technologies, products, markets and operations. If we are unable to anticipate or manage challenges confronting our business in a timely manner, we may be unable to continue our operations. We must fulfill our obligation under the real estate purchase agreement for the Sendio facility. If we cannot pay the balance of the purchase price, we may lose our manufacturing facility. Under the purchase agreement for our Sendio manufacturing facility in the Czech Republic, Sendio is required to make significant payments totaling approximately $9.0 million by June 30, 2011. We currently do not have the funds to pay the balance of the purchase price, and we will need to obtain additional financing to fulfill our payment obligation under the purchase agreement. If we are unable to obtain the financing, we will need to negotiate with the landlord to extend the closing date of the building purchase or extend the lease beyond its current term of June 30, 2011. We have an agreement in principle with the landlord to extend the lease and defer the purchase of the building until June 30, 2012, but no formal agreement has been signed. 8 We must successfully develop, introduce, manufacture, market and sell lighting products and manage our operating expenses. To be a viable business, we must successfully develop, introduce, manufacture, market and sell products and manage our operating expenses. Many of our lighting products are still in development and are subject to the risks inherent in the development of technology products, including unforeseen delays, expenses, patent challenges and complications frequently encountered in the development and commercialization of technology products, the dependence on and attempts to apply new and rapidly changing technology, and the competitive environment of the industry. Many of these events are beyond our control, such as unanticipated development requirements, delays and difficulties with obtaining third-party certification, delays in submitting documentation for and being granted patents and manufactur ing problems. Our success also depends on our ability to maintain high levels of employee utilization, manage our production costs, sales and marketing costs and general and administrative expenses, and otherwise execute on our business plan. We may not be able to effectively and efficiently manage our development and growth. Any inability to do so could increase our expenses and negatively impact our results of operations. We rely heavily on a few consultants and employees, the loss of whom could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our future success will depend in significant part upon the continued services of our executive officers and directors and certain key consultants, and our ability to attract, assimilate and retain highly qualified technical, managerial and sales and marketing personnel when needed. Competition for quality personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we can retain our existing key personnel or that we will be able to attract, assimilate and retain such employees in the future when needed. The loss of key personnel or the inability to hire, assimilate or retain qualified personnel in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely on outside suppliers to manage certain key business processes, and any failure to perform will negatively affect our business. We have outsourced certain of our key business processes. In September 2010, we retained Integrated Sales Solutions II, LLC to help develop our sales, marketing and distribution strategies and channels. If any of these service providers fail to perform or at a satisfactory level, our business development will be negatively affected and delayed, and our reputation may be harmed. Our future operating results are difficult to predict; thus, the future of our business is uncertain. Due to our limited operating history and the significant development and manufacturing objectives that we must achieve to be successful, our quarterly and annual operating results are difficult to predict and are expected to vary significantly from period to period. In addition, the amount and duration of losses will be extended if we are unable to develop and manufacture our products in a timely manner. Factors that could inhibit our product development and manufacturing and future operating results include: · failure to solve existing or future technology-related issues in a timely manner, · failure to obtain sufficient financing when needed, · failure to secure key manufacturing or other strategic partnerships and · competitive factors, including the introduction of new products, product enhancements and the introduction of new or improved technologies by our competitors, the entry of new competitors into the lighting markets and pricing pressures. We face currency risks associated with fluctuating foreign currency valuations. With operations in the Czech Republic through our Sendio subsidiary, Sendio’s accounts, which primarily consist of lease payments, compensation and other R&D and administrative expenses, are denominated in the Czech Koruna (CZK) and the Euro. An increase in the value of the CZK and Euro in relation to the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on our operating expenses. In addition, we may engage in business in other countries, particularly in the European Union, and our operating results will be subject to fluctuations in the value of those currencies against the U.S. dollar. In addition, the financial statements for our Czech subsidiary are denominated in the CZK; accordingly, on a consolidated financial statement reporting basis, these numbers are translated into U.S. dollars and are affected by currency conversion rates. To date, we have not entered into foreign currency contracts or other currency-related derivatives to mitigate the potential impact of foreign currency fluctuations. 9 Risks Related to Our Industry Our ability to manufacture products will depend on the continuous supply and availability of raw materials and our business will be susceptible to shortages, unavailability and price fluctuations. The principal raw materials that we use in manufacturing our light bulbs include glass, electronic components and other required materials. Our business will be adversely affected by any impairment in the supply of these raw materials or by price increases. Although we have identified suppliers for these materials, we do not have supply agreements in place for raw materials, and we will be subject to risk of fluctuations in supply and price. In addition, while we believe that in many instances there are alternative suppliers for these components, replacement suppliers may not be available. If we are unable to secure sufficient quantities of the materials we need to manufacture our light bulbs, if we encounter delays or contractual or other difficulties in our relationships with suppliers, or if we cannot find repl acement suppliers at an acceptable cost, then the manufacture of our light bulbs may be disrupted, which would increase our costs, delay our production schedule and have a material adverse effect on our business. Because we are smaller and have fewer financial resources than most of our competitors, we may not be able to successfully compete in the very competitive lighting industry. The lighting industry is very competitive and we expect this competition to continue to increase. The general illumination market segment within the lighting industry is dominated by a number of well-funded multi-national companies such as General Electric Company, Phillips Electronics NV and Osram Sylvania, that have established products and are developing new products that compete with our current and planned products. We may not be able to compete effectively against these or other competitors, most of whom have substantially greater financial resources and operating experience than we do. Many of our current and future competitors may have advantages over us, including: · well established products that dominate the market, · longer operating histories, · established customer bases, · substantially greater financial resources, · well established and significantly greater technical, research and development, manufacturing, sales and marketing resources, capabilities and experience and · greater name recognition. Our current and potential competitors have established, and may continue to establish in the future, cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that would increase their market dominance and negatively impact our ability to compete with them. In addition, competitors may be able to adapt more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer needs, or to devote more resources to promoting and selling their products. If we fail to adapt to market demands and to compete successfully with existing and new competitors, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The market for lighting technology is changing rapidly and there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete, especially in light of our limited resources. There can be no assurance that any of our cu rrent or planned products can compete successfully on a cost, quality or market acceptance basis with competitors’ products and technologies. We depend on our intellectual property. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may be unable to compete and our business may fail. Our success and ability to develop our technology and create products and become competitive depend to a significant degree on our ability to protect our proprietary technology, particularly any patentable material. We rely on a combination of trade secret and other intellectual property law, nondisclosure agreements and other protective measures to preserve our rights to our technology. In addition, any intellectual property protection we seek may not preclude competitors from developing products similar to ours. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. 10 We do not currently have sufficient available resources to defend a lawsuit challenging our intellectual property rights or to prosecute others who may be infringing our rights. Accordingly, even if we have strong intellectual property rights and patent rights, we may not be able to afford to engage in the necessary litigation to enforce our rights. We compete in industries where competitors pursue patent prosecution worldwide and patent litigation is customary. At any given time, there may be one or more patent applications filed or patents that are the subject of litigation, which, if granted or upheld, could impair our ability to conduct our business without first obtaining licenses or granting cross-licenses, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We have several patent applications pending in the United States and internationally and we expect to file additional patent applications; however, none of these patents may ever be issued. We do not perform worldwide patent searches as a matter of custom and, at any given time, there could be patent applications pending or patents issued that may have a material adverse effect on our business, fi nancial condition and results of operations. Other parties may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us, and our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time consuming and could divert management’s attention from our business and could result in the loss of significant rights. If there is a successful claim of infringement, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or license agreements which may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, we could be required to cease selling any of our products that infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. Successful claims of intellectual property infringement against us may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even successful defense and prosecution of patent suits is costly and time consuming. We rely in part on unpatented proprietary technology, and others may independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, advisors and strategic partners to enter into confidentiality agreements. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of those trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. In particular, we may not be able to protect our proprietary information as we conduct discussions with potential strategic partners. If we are unable to protect the proprietary nature of our technologies, it may have a material adverse effe ct on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our lighting products are subject to extensive regulation, compliance with which is expensive and time consuming. Our current and planned commercial products are and will be subject to extensive regulation, both in the United States and internationally. Compliance with these laws and regulations is expensive and requires significant management time. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. Failure to obtain and maintain industry certification for our products could cause an erosion of our current competitive strengths. We are designing our products to be UL® or ETL compliant and intend to seek Energy Star® certification, as well as appropriate certifications in the European Union and in other countries. UL® or ETL compliance certification is a key standard in the lighting industry, and if we fail to obtain or maintain this standard we may not have any market interest for our products. We may not obtain this certification or we may be required to make changes to our light bulbs, which would delay our commercialization efforts and would negatively harm our business and our results of operations. 11 Rapid technological changes and evolving industry standards could result in our products becoming obsolete and no longer in demand. The lighting industry is characterized by rapid technological change and evolving industry standards and is highly competitive with respect to timely product innovation. The introduction of products embodying new technology and the emergence of new industry standards can render existing products and technologies obsolete and unmarketable. Our success will depend in part on our ability to successfully develop commercial applications for our technology, anticipate and respond to technology developments and changes in industry standards, and obtain market acceptance on any products we introduce. We may not be successful in the development of our technology, and we may encounter technical or other serious difficulties in our development or commercialization efforts that would materially adversely affect our results of operations. Risks Related to our Securities Our management and SAM Advisor’s LLC own a substantial amount of our stock and are capable of influencing our affairs. As of March 31, 2011, our executive officers and directors (and their respective affiliates) beneficially owned approximately 40.1% of our outstanding common stock, with SAM Advisors, LLC, an investment advisor controlled by William B. Smith, our Chairman, beneficially owning approximately 18.8% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these shareholders substantially influence our management and affairs and, if acting together, control most matters requiring the approval by our shareholders including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and any other significant corporate transactions. The concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change of control at a premium price. Our common stock is thinly traded, which may impair your ability to sell your shares at a later time. The trading volume of our common stock is thin. Therefore, there may not be a large number of potential purchasers ready to buy shares whenever a shareholder desires to sell. The public stock markets generally, and our shares specifically, are volatile and unpredictable. There can be no assurance that shareholders will be able to dispose of their shares at the time they desire to do so or at the desired selling price. Our articles of incorporation contain authorized, unissued preferred stock which, if issued, may inhibit a takeover at a premium price that may be beneficial to you. Our articles of incorporation allow us to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock without further stockholder approval and upon such terms and conditions, and having such rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions as the board of directors may determine. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. In addition, the issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of, or of discouraging bids for control of our company. This could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of common stock. We have no current plans to issue any shares of preferred stock. Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, as the future sale of a substantial amount of our stock in the public market may depress the price of our common stock. From time to time, certain of our stockholders may be eligible to sell all or some of their shares of common stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act, subject to certain limitations. In general, pursuant to Rule 144, a stockholder who is not affiliated with us and has satisfied a six-month holding period may sell its shares without restriction. An affiliate of our company may also, under certain circumstances, sell within any three-month period a number of shares which does not exceed 1% of the then outstanding shares of common stock following the six-month holding period. Any substantial sale of common stock pursuant to Rule 144 or pursuant to any resale prospectus may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. 12 Any future equity-based financings will dilute our stockholders. We will need to raise additional financing by the third quarter of 2011. If we raise funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked or debt securities, these securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the rights of the common stock. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities could result in substantial dilution to our stockholders in terms of their percentage ownership and voting interest in the company. Our common stock is considered a “penny stock” and may be difficult to sell. Our common stock is subject to certain rules and regulations relating to “penny stock.” A “penny stock” is generally defined as any equity security that has a price less than $5.00 per share and that is not quoted on a national securities exchange. Being a penny stock generally means that any broker who wants to trade in our shares (other than with established clients and certain institutional investors) must comply with certain “sales practice requirements,” including delivery to the prospective purchaser of the penny stock a risk disclosure document describing the penny stock market and the risks associated with it. These penny stock rules make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend our common stock and, as a result, our stockholders may have difficulty in selling their s hares in the secondary trading market. This lack of liquidity may also make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future through the sale of our equity securities. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock, so any return on investment must come from appreciation. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to invest all future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Therefore, any investment return in our common stock must come from increases in the trading price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable 