Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, stockholders or prospective investors should carefully consider the following risk factors: Our business is concentrated in and dependent upon the continued growth and welfare of the Quad City, Cedar Rapids, Rockford and Milwaukee markets. We operate primarily in the Quad City, Cedar Rapids, Rockford, and Milwaukee markets, and as a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are subject to changes in the economic conditions in those areas. We have developed a particularly strong presence in Bettendorf, Cedar Rapids and Davenport, Iowa and Moline and Rockford, Illinois and their surrounding communities. Our success depends upon the business activity, population, income levels, deposits and real estate activity in these markets. Although our customers’ business and financial interests may extend well beyond these market areas, adverse economic conditions that affect these market areas could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. Because of our geographic concentration, we are less able than other regional or national financial institutions to diversify our credit risks across multiple markets. We face intense competition in all phases of our business from other banks and financial institutions. The banking and financial services businesses in all of our markets are highly competitive. Our competitors include large regional banks, local community banks, savings and loan associations, securities and brokerage companies, mortgage companies, insurance companies, finance companies, money market mutual funds, credit unions and other non-bank financial services providers. Many of these competitors are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as we are. Many of our unregulated competitors compete across geographic boundaries and are able to provide customers with a feasible alternative to traditional banking services. Additionally, if the regulatory trend toward reducing restrictions on the interstate operations of financial institutions continues, we will continue to experience increased competition as a result. Increased competition in our markets may also result in a decrease in the amounts of our loans and deposits, reduced spreads between loan rates and deposit rates or loan terms that are more favorable to the borrower. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow and remain profitable. If increased competition causes us to significantly discount the interest rates we offer on loans or increase the amount we pay on deposits, our net interest income could be adversely impacted. If increased competition causes us to relax our underwriting standards, we could be exposed to higher losses from lending activities. Additionally, many of our competitors are much larger in total assets and capitalization, have greater access to capital markets and larger lending limits and offer a broader range of financial services than we can offer. Our community banking strategy relies heavily on our subsidiaries’ independent management teams, and the unexpected loss of key managers may adversely affect our operations. We rely heavily on the success of our bank subsidiaries’ independent management teams. Accordingly, much of our success to date has been influenced strongly by our ability to attract and to retain senior management experienced in banking and financial services and familiar with the communities in our market areas. Our ability to retain executive officers, the current management teams, branch managers and loan officers of our operating subsidiaries will continue to be important to the successful implementation of our strategy. It is also critical, as we grow, to be able to attract and retain qualified additional management and loan officers with the appropriate level of experience and knowledge about our market areas to implement our community-based operating strategy. The unexpected loss of services of any key management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 8 Table of Contents Our continued pace of growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate that our existing capital resources will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. However, we may at some point need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth, branching, de novo bank formations and/or acquisitions could be materially impaired. We may experience difficulties in managing our growth and our growth strategy involves risks that may negatively impact our net income. While we have no current plans, we may expand into additional communities or attempt to strengthen our position in our current markets by undertaking additional de novo bank formations or branch openings. Based on our experience, we believe that it generally takes several years for new banking facilities to achieve overall profitability, due to the impact of organizational and overhead expenses and the start-up phase of generating loans and deposits. If we undertake additional branching and de novo bank and business formations, we are likely to continue to experience the effects of higher operating expenses relative to operating income from the new operations, which may have an adverse effect on our levels of reported net income, return on average equity and return on average assets. Other effects of engaging in such growth strategies may include potential diversion of our management’s time and attention and general disruption to our business. In addition to branching and de novo bank formations, we may acquire banks and related businesses that we believe provide a strategic fit with our business. To the extent that we grow through acquisitions, we cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately and profitably manage this growth. Acquiring other banks and businesses will involve similar risks to those commonly associated with branching and de novo bank formations, but may also involve additional risks, including: • potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of banks and businesses we acquire; • exposure to potential asset quality issues of the acquired bank or related business; • difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of banks and businesses we acquire; and • the possible loss of key employees and customers of the banks and businesses we acquire. Interest rates and other conditions impact our results of operations. Our profitability is in part a function of the spread between the interest rates earned on investments and loans and the interest rates paid on deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities. Like most banking institutions, our net interest spread and margin will be affected by general economic conditions and other factors, including fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government, that influence market interest rates and our ability to respond to changes in such rates. At any given time, our assets and liabilities will be such that they are affected differently by a given change in interest rates. As a result, an increase or decrease in rates, the length of loan terms or the mix of adjustable and fixed rate loans in our portfolio could have a positive or negative effect on our net income, capital and liquidity. We measure interest rate risk under various rate scenarios and using specific criteria and assumptions. A summary of this process, along with the results of our net interest income simulations is presented at “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” included under Item 7A of Part II of this Form 10-K. Although we believe our current level of interest rate sensitivity is reasonable and effectively managed, significant fluctuations in interest rates may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents We must effectively manage our credit risk. There are risks inherent in making any loan, including risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers, risks of nonpayment, risks resulting from uncertainties as to the future value of collateral and risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions. We attempt to minimize our credit risk through prudent loan application approval procedures, careful monitoring of the concentration of our loans within specific industries and periodic independent reviews of outstanding loans by our credit review department. However, we cannot assure you that such approval and monitoring procedures will reduce these credit risks. The majority of our subsidiary banks’ loan/lease portfolios are invested in commercial loans/leases, and we focus on lending to small to medium-sized businesses. The size of the loans/leases we can offer to commercial customers is less than the size of the loans/leases that our competitors with larger lending limits can offer. This may limit our ability to establish relationships with the area’s largest businesses. As a result, we may assume greater lending risks than financial institutions that have a lesser concentration of such loans/leases and tend to make loans/leases to larger businesses. Collateral for these loans/leases generally includes accounts receivable, inventory, equipment and real estate. However, depending on the overall financial condition of the borrower, some loans are made on an unsecured basis. In addition to commercial loans/leases and commercial real estate loans, our subsidiary banks are also active in residential mortgage and consumer lending. Commercial and industrial loans/leases make up a large portion of our loan/lease portfolio. Commercial and industrial loans/leases were $435.4 million, or approximately 39% of our total loan/lease portfolio, as of December 31, 2007. Our commercial loans/leases are primarily made based on the identified cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. Most often, this collateral is accounts receivable, inventory and equipment. Credit support provided by the borrower for most of these loans/leases and the probability of repayment is based on the liquidation value of the pledged collateral and enforcement of a personal guarantee, if any exists. As a result, in the case of loans secured by accounts receivable, the availability of funds for the repayment of these loans may be substantially dependent on the ability of the borrower to collect amounts due from its customers. The collateral securing other loans/leases may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. Our loan/lease portfolio has a significant concentration of commercial real estate loans, which involve risks specific to real estate value. Commercial real estate lending comprises a significant portion of our lending business. Specifically, commercial real estate loans were $499.5 million, or approximately 45% of our total loan/lease portfolio, as of December 31, 2007. Our commercial real estate loans increased by approximately 43% from their levels at December 31, 2006. The market value of real estate can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time as a result of market conditions in the geographic area in which the real estate is located. Although a significant portion of such loans are secured by real estate as a secondary form of collateral, adverse developments affecting real estate values in one or more of our markets could increase the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio. Additionally, real estate lending typically involves higher loan principal amounts and the repayment of the loans generally is dependent, in large part, on sufficient income from the properties securing the loans to cover operating expenses and debt service. Economic events or governmental regulations outside of the control of the borrower or lender could negatively impact the future cash flow and market values of the affected properties. If the problems that have occurred in residential real estate and mortgage markets throughout much of the United States were to spread to the commercial real estate market, particularly within one or more of our markets, the value of collateral securing our commercial real estate loans could decline. In such case, we may not be able to realize the amount of security that we anticipated at the time of originating the loan, which could cause us to increase our provision for loan losses and adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and/or capital. We generally have not experienced a downturn in credit performance by our commercial real estate loan customers, but in light of the uncertainty that exists in the economy and credit markets nationally, there can be no guarantee that we will not experience any deterioration in such performance. 10 Table of Contents Our allowance for loan/lease losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb potential losses in our loan/lease portfolio. We established our allowance for loan/lease losses in consultation with management of our subsidiaries and maintain it at a level considered adequate by management to absorb loan/lease losses that are inherent in the portfolio. The amount of future loan/lease losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which may be beyond our control, and such losses may exceed current estimates. At December 31, 2007, our allowance for loan/lease losses as a percentage of total gross loans/leases was 1.09% and as a percentage of total non-performing loans/leases was approximately 161%. Although management believes that the allowance for loan/lease losses is adequate to absorb losses on any existing loans/leases that may become uncollectible, we cannot predict loan/lease losses with certainty, and we cannot assure you that our allowance for loan/lease losses will prove sufficient to cover actual loan/lease losses in the future. Loan/lease losses in excess of our reserves may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additional information regarding our allowance for loan/lease losses and the methodology we use to determine an appropriate level of reserves is located in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” section included under Item 7 of Part II of this Form 10-K. Our Bancard operation faces other risks. Bancard, our credit card processing subsidiary, is subject to certain risks, which could have a negative impact on its operations. These risks primarily are competition, credit risks and the possibility that merchants’ willingness to accept credit cards will decline. Many of Bancard’s competitors have greater financial, technological, marketing and personnel resources than Bancard and there can be no assurance that Bancard will be able to compete effectively with such entities. Bancard is also subject to credit risks. When a billing dispute arises between a cardholder and a merchant, and if the dispute is not resolved in favor of the merchant, the transaction is charged back to the merchant. If Bancard is unable to collect such chargeback from the merchant’s account, and if the merchant refuses or is unable to reimburse Bancard for the chargeback due to bankruptcy or other reasons, Bancard bears the loss for the amount of the refund paid to the cardholder. Bancard, in general, handles processing for smaller merchants, which may present greater risk of loss. Although Bancard maintains a reserve against these losses, there is no assurance that it will be adequate. Additionally, VISA and MasterCard have the ability to increase the “interchange” rates charged to merchants for credit card transactions. There can be no assurance that merchants will continue to accept credit cards as payment if they feel rates are too high. Bancard is also subject to an approval process by the VISA and MasterCard credit card associations. In the event Bancard fails to comply with these standards, Bancard’s designation as a certified processor could be suspended or terminated. There can be no assurance that VISA or MasterCard will maintain Bancard’s registrations or that the current VISA or MasterCard rules allowing Bancard to provide transaction processing services will remain in effect. 11 Table of Contents We have a continuing need for technological change and we may not have the resources to effectively implement new technology. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to enabling us to better serve our customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables us to reduce costs. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations as we continue to grow and expand our market areas. Many of our larger competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. As a result, they may be able to offer additional or superior products to those that we will be able to offer, which would put us at a competitive disadvantage. Accordingly, we cannot provide you with assurance that we will be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing such products and services to our customers. System failure or breaches of our network security could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other liabilities. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event, as well as from security breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Computer break-ins, phishing and other disruptions could also jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to us and may cause existing and potential customers to refrain from doing business with us. Although we, with the help of third-party service providers, intend to continue to implement security technology and establish operational procedures to prevent such damage, there can be no assurance that these security measures will be successful. In addition, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms we and our third-party service providers use to encrypt and protect customer transaction data. A failure of such security measures could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, customer or employee fraud and data processing system failures and errors. Employee errors and employee and customer misconduct could subject us to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation. Misconduct by our employees could include hiding unauthorized activities from us, improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of our customers or improper use of confidential information. It is not always possible to prevent employee errors and misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Employee errors could also subject us to financial claims for negligence. We maintain a system of internal controls and insurance coverage to mitigate against operational risks, including data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud. Should our internal controls fail to prevent or detect an occurrence, or if any resulting loss is not insured or exceeds applicable insurance limits, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Government regulation can result in limitations on our operations. We operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to supervision and regulation by a number of governmental regulatory agencies, including the Federal Reserve, the FDIC, the Iowa Superintendent, the Illinois DFPR, and the Wisconsin DFI. Regulations adopted by these agencies, which are generally intended to provide protection for depositors and customers rather than for the benefit of stockholders, govern a comprehensive range of 12 Table of Contents matters relating to ownership and control of our shares, our acquisition of other companies and businesses, permissible activities for us to engage in, maintenance of adequate capital levels and other aspects of our operations. These bank regulators possess broad authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Increased regulation could increase our cost of compliance and adversely affect profitability. For example, new legislation or regulation may limit the manner in which we may conduct our business, including our ability to offer new products, obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans and achieve satisfactory interest spreads. In addition, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals that have arisen in the wake of the recent troubles in the credit markets in the United State that would have an impact on the operation of bank holding companies and their bank and non-bank subsidiaries. It is impossible to predict whether or in what form these proposals may be adopted in the future and, if adopted, what their effect will be on us. Failure to pay interest on our debt or dividends on our preferred stock may adversely impact our ability to pay common stock dividends. As of December 31, 2007, we had $36.1 million of junior subordinated debentures held by four business trusts that we control. Interest payments on the debentures, which totaled $2.6 million for 2007, must be paid before we pay dividends on our capital stock, including our common stock. We have the right to defer interest payments on the debentures for up to 20 consecutive quarters. However, if we elect to defer interest payments, all deferred interest must be paid before we may pay dividends on our capital stock. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had 568 shares of non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock issued and outstanding. Although the preferred shares will accrue no dividends, dividends will be payable on the preferred shares if declared, but no dividends may be declared on the Company’s common stock unless and until dividends have been declared on the outstanding shares. Deferral, of either interest payments on the debentures or preferred dividends on the preferred shares, could cause a subsequent decline in the market price of our common stock because the Company would not be able to pay dividends on its common stock. There is a limited trading market for our common shares, and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price stockholders paid for them. Although our common shares are listed for quotation on The Nasdaq Capital Market, the trading in our common shares has substantially less liquidity than many other companies listed on Nasdaq. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the market of willing buyers and sellers of our common shares at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. We cannot assure you that the volume of trading in our common shares will increase in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved staff comments. 13 Table of Contents 