ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have historically been a research and product development company. We have a limited operating history with minimal revenue to date, so it may be difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. We also received a going concern qualification in our 2012 audit. We have been primarily engaged during the last eight years in the research and development of our lighting products, and have incurred significant operating losses. During 2012, we focused on initiatives to transition our manufacturing operations to Huayi Lighting from our former facility in the Czech Republic, which in the past has primarily provided us with product testing, engineering development and pilot production of our initial products. These initiatives also included continued efforts to work with Huayi Lighting to refine the manufacturing processes and developing quality control testing necessary for quantity manufacturing. Our progress has been limited, primarily due to lack of adequate funding necessary to execute our business plan. These initiatives are ongoing and, as a result, we had no revenues in 2012 and minimal revenue in 2011. We currently depend on third-party financing to fund our operations. We have a very limited operating history upon which an investor can evaluate our business and prospects, and we may never generate significant revenue or achieve net income. Peterson Sullivan LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm, in its opinion on our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2012, raised substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern due to our net losses and negative cash flows from operations and other factors. We have incurred historical losses and, as a result, may not be able to generate profits, support our operations or establish a return on invested capital, which can have a detrimental effect on the long-term capital appreciation of our common stock. We incurred a net loss in 2012 of $3.9 million and had an accumulated deficit of $83.4 million as of December 31, 2012. We cannot predict when or whether we will ever realize a profit or otherwise establish a return on invested capital. Our business strategies may not be successful and we may never generate significant revenues or profitability, in any future fiscal period or at all. 8 We have a number of technology issues to resolve before we will be able to successfully manufacture a full line of commercially viable lighting products. Although we have completed initial engineering and obtained UL certification of our initial R30 reflector light, further development work and third-party testing will be necessary before the technology can be deployed and production of a full line of lighting products can be commenced. Specifically, we are continuing to work on our standard Edisonian A19 screw-in light, including obtaining acceptable life and output specifications. If we are unable to solve current and future technology issues, we may not be able to offer a full line of commercially viable products. In addition, if we encounter difficulty in solving technology issues, our research and development costs could increase substantially and our development and production schedules could be significantly delayed. We have experienced delays in executing our business plan, and further delays will reduce the likelihood that we will be able to manufacture lighting products or generate sufficient revenue to stay in business. We have previously experienced delays in executing our business plan. These delays are attributable to a number of factors, including: · unanticipated difficulties and increased expenses in developing our ESL technology, · unanticipated difficulties in establishing large scale commercial manufacturing processes, and · our inability to obtain funding in a timely manner. In the future, we may experience delays caused by these and other factors. Our business must be viewed in light of the problems, expenses, complications and delays frequently encountered in connection with the development of new technologies, products, markets and operations. If we are unable to anticipate or manage challenges confronting our business in a timely manner, we may be unable to continue our operations. We must successfully develop, introduce, market and sell lighting products and manage our operating expenses. To be a viable business, we must successfully develop, introduce, market and sell products and manage our operating expenses. Many of our lighting products are still in development and are subject to the risks inherent in the development of technology products, including unforeseen delays, expenses, patent challenges and complications frequently encountered in the development and commercialization of technology products, the dependence on and attempts to apply new and rapidly changing technology, and the competitive environment of the industry. Many of these events are beyond our control, such as unanticipated development requirements, delays and difficulties with obtaining third-party certification, delays in submitting documentation for and being granted patents and establishing manufacturing and distribution relationships. Our success also depends on our ability to maintain high levels of employee utilization, manage our production costs, sales and marketing costs and general and administrative expenses, and otherwise execute on our business plan. We may not be able to effectively and efficiently manage our development and growth. Any inability to do so could increase our expenses and negatively impact our results of operations. We rely solely on Huayi Lighting Company to manufacture the ESL lighting products we sell to customers and to source the required raw materials. Our business prospects depend significantly on our ability to obtain ESL lighting products for sale to our customers. Our manufacturing agreement with Huayi Lighting Company Ltd. provides us with a single source for our ESL lights. Through this agreement, Huayi Lighting is responsible for fabricating the required electronic components of our lights, sourcing the glass components from its suppliers and using its established automated processes to assemble and package finished products. Huayi Lighting is located in the People’s Republic of China, where shipments of product to us could be delayed, rerouted, lost or damaged. Our inability to obtain finished products from Huayi Lighting in accordance with our required technical specifications and on a timely basis due to shipping delays, manufacturing problems or its failure to obtain required raw materials would have a material adverse effect on our revenue from product sales, as well as on our ability to support our customers’ purchase requirements, which could result in loss of customers and damage to our reputation. We may also be subject to the risk of fluctuations in raw material prices, since our arrangement with Huayi Lighting provides that increases and decreases in the prices of such raw materials obtained from local China-based vendors are passed through to us in the form of adjusted final finished good prices charged by Huayi Lighting. 9 We may face additional barriers and tariffs as a result of importing our lighting products from China, which could increase our prices and make our products less desirable. We expect to pay a duty on all lighting products that we import from China. This duty is expected to represent a 3.9% mark-up to factory invoice. We will also bear related importing costs such as customs inspection fees and ocean freight charges. In the future, China and the United States may create additional barriers to business between our China-based product manufacturer and us, including new tariffs, costs, restrictions, controls or embargos that could negatively impact our business and operating results. New or increased tariffs would likely result in higher prices (and potentially lower sales volumes) and lower operating margins on our products. We rely heavily on a few consultants, the loss of whom could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our future success will depend in significant part upon the continued services of our executive officers and directors and certain key consultants, and our ability to attract, assimilate and retain highly qualified technical, managerial and sales and marketing personnel when needed. Competition for quality personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we can retain our existing key personnel or that we will be able to attract, assimilate and retain such employees in the future when needed. The loss of key personnel or the inability to hire, assimilate or retain qualified personnel in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely on outside vendors to manage certain key business processes, and any failure by them to perform will negatively affect our business. We have outsourced certain of our key business processes. If any of our service providers fail to perform at a satisfactory level, our business development will be negatively affected and delayed, and our reputation may be harmed. Our future operating results are difficult to predict; thus, the future of our business is uncertain. Due to our limited operating history and the significant development and manufacturing objectives that we must achieve to be successful, our quarterly and annual operating results are difficult to predict and are expected to vary significantly from period to period. In addition, the amount and duration of losses will be extended if we are unable to develop and manufacture our products in a timely manner. Factors that could inhibit our product development, manufacturing and future operating results include: · failure to solve existing or future technology-related issues in a timely manner, · failure to obtain sufficient financing when needed, · failure to secure key manufacturing or other strategic business relationships, and · competitive factors, including the introduction of new products, product enhancements and the introduction of new or improved technologies by our competitors, the entry of new competitors into the lighting markets and pricing pressures. We face currency risks associated with fluctuating foreign currency valuations. Although we use U.S. dollars to pay Huayi Lighting, increases in the value of the Chinese Yuan Renminbi would have an adverse affect on their manufacturing costs and therefore our bulb cost may be adversely affected. To date, we have not entered into foreign currency contracts or other currency-related derivatives to mitigate the potential impact of foreign currency fluctuations. 10 Because we are smaller and have fewer financial resources than most of our competitors, we may not be able to successfully compete in the very competitive lighting industry. The lighting industry is very competitive and we expect this competition to continue to increase. The general illumination market segment within the lighting industry is dominated by a number of well-funded multi-national companies such as General Electric Company, Phillips Electronics NV and Osram Sylvania, that have established products and are developing new products that compete with our current and planned lighting products. We may not be able to compete effectively against these or other competitors, most of whom have substantially greater financial resources and operating experience than we do. Many of our current and future competitors may have advantages over us, including: · well established products that dominate the market, · longer operating histories, · established customer bases, · substantially greater financial resources, · well established and significantly greater technical, research and development, manufacturing, sales and marketing resources, capabilities and experience, and · greater name recognition. Our current and potential competitors have established, and may continue to establish in the future, cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that would increase their market dominance and negatively impact our ability to compete with them. In addition, competitors may be able to adapt more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer needs, or to devote more resources to promoting and selling their products. If we fail to adapt to market demands and to compete successfully with existing and new competitors, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The market for lighting technology is changing rapidly and there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete, especially in light of our limited resources. There can be no assurance that any of our current or planned lighting products can compete successfully on a cost, quality or market acceptance basis with competitors’ products and technologies. We depend on our intellectual property. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may be unable to compete and our business may fail. Our success and ability to develop our technology and create products and become competitive depend to a significant degree on our ability to protect our proprietary technology, particularly any patentable material. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws, nondisclosure agreements and other protective measures to preserve our rights to our technology. In addition, any intellectual property protection we seek may not preclude competitors from developing products similar to ours. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. 11 We do not currently have sufficient available resources to defend a lawsuit challenging our intellectual property rights or to prosecute others who may be infringing our rights. Accordingly, even if we have strong intellectual property rights and patent rights, we may not be able to afford to engage in the necessary litigation to enforce our rights. We compete in industries where competitors pursue patent prosecution worldwide and patent litigation is customary. At any given time, there may be one or more patent applications filed or patents that are the subject of litigation, which, if granted or upheld, could impair our ability to conduct our business without first obtaining licenses or granting cross-licenses, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We have several patent applications pending in the United States and internationally and we expect to file additional patent applications; however, none of these patents may ever be issued. We do not perform worldwide patent searches as a matter of custom and, at any given time, there could be patent applications pending or patents issued that may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Other parties may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us, and our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time consuming and could divert management’s attention from our business and could result in the loss of significant rights. If there is a successful claim of infringement, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or license agreements which may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, we could be required to cease selling any of our products that infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. Successful claims of intellectual property infringement against us may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even successful defense and prosecution of patent suits is costly and time consuming. We rely in part on unpatented proprietary technology, and others may independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, advisors and strategic partners to enter into confidentiality agreements. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of those trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. In particular, we may not be able to protect our proprietary information as we conduct discussions with potential strategic partners. If we are unable to protect the proprietary nature of our technologies, it may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to obtain and maintain industry certification for our lighting products could cause an erosion of our current competitive strengths. We are designing our lighting products to be UL or ETL (an Intertek listed mark for product compliance to North American safety standards) compliant and intend to seek Energy Star certification, as well as appropriate certifications in the European Union and in other countries. UL or ETL compliance certification is a key standard in the lighting industry, and if we fail to obtain or maintain this standard we may not have any market interest for our products. We may not obtain this certification or we may be required to make changes to our lights, which would delay our commercialization efforts and would negatively harm our business and our results of operations. Rapid technological changes and evolving industry standards could result in our lighting products becoming obsolete and no longer in demand. The lighting industry is characterized by rapid technological change and evolving industry standards and is highly competitive with respect to timely product innovation. The introduction of lighting products embodying new technology and the emergence of new industry standards can render existing products and technologies obsolete and unmarketable. Our success will depend in part on our ability to successfully develop commercial applications for our technology, anticipate and respond to technology developments and changes in industry standards, and obtain market acceptance on any products we introduce. We may not be successful in the development of our ESL technology, and we may encounter technical or other serious difficulties in our development or commercialization efforts that would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Despite government regulations aimed at eliminating the production of traditional incandescent light bulbs, consumer and political opposition could cause delays in the implementation of those regulations, possibly delaying the pace and impact of our future market penetration. There has been consumer, political and media resistance from time to time to government regulations mandating the use of energy-efficient lighting, including the elimination of the production of traditional incandescent light bulbs, owing to the low cost of incandescent light bulbs, their easy and broad availability and concerns about other alternatives such as mercury contamination with CFLs. In the event implementation of these government regulations is delayed, we may experience a delay in the pace with which our products may be able to penetrate the general lighting products market. 12 If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls in the future, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, which could harm our operating results, investors’ views of us and, as a result, the value of our common stock. Ensuring that we have effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures in place is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be frequently evaluated. As a public company, we conduct an annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As a smaller reporting company, we are not currently required to receive a report from our independent registered public accounting firm addressing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. As we grow, it may be necessary in the future to update our internal controls over financial reporting on the basis of periodic reviews. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404, or if we (or our independent registered public accounting firm) identify deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that could rise to the level of a material weakness, we may not be able to complete our evaluation, testing and any required remediation in a timely fashion. During the evaluation and testing process, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective. If we are unable to assert that they are effective (or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable in the future to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting), we could be subject to investigations or sanctions by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, and we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could cause an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock, our business, reputation, financial position and results of operation. In addition, we could be required to expend significant management time and financial resources to correct any material weaknesses that may be identified or to respond to any regulatory investigations or proceedings. Risks Related to our Securities Our historic stock price has been volatile and the future market price for our common stock is likely to continue to be volatile. This may make it difficult for you to sell our common stock for a positive return on your investment. The public market for our common stock has historically been volatile. Any future market price for our shares is likely to continue to be volatile. This price volatility may make it more difficult for you to sell shares when you want at prices you find attractive. The stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of specific companies. Broad market factors and the investing public’s negative perception of our business may reduce our stock price, regardless of our operating performance. Further, the market for our common stock is limited and we cannot assure you that a larger market will ever be developed or maintained. Market fluctuations and volatility, as well as general economic, market and political conditions, could reduce our market price. As a result, these factors may make it more difficult or impossible for you to sell our common stock for a positive return on your investment. Our management and SAM Special Opportunities Fund, L.P. own a substantial amount of our stock and are capable of influencing our affairs. As of December 31, 2012, our executive officers and directors (and their respective affiliates) beneficially owned approximately 28.6% of our outstanding common stock, with SAM Advisors, LLC, an investment advisor controlled by William B. Smith, our Chairman, beneficially owning approximately 17.7% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these shareholders substantially influence our management and affairs and, if acting together, control most matters requiring the approval by our shareholders including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and any other significant corporate transactions. The concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change of control at a premium price. 13 Our articles of incorporation contain authorized, unissued preferred stock which, if issued, may inhibit a takeover at a premium price that may be beneficial to you. Our articles of incorporation allow us to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock without further stockholder approval and upon such terms and conditions, and having such rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions as the board of directors may determine. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. In addition, the issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of, or of discouraging bids for control of our company. This could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of common stock. We have no current plans to issue any shares of preferred stock. Shares of stock issuable pursuant to our stock options, warrants, convertible debentures and underwriters’ warrants may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2012, we have outstanding under our 2007 Stock Incentive Plan stock options to purchase 309,004 shares of common stock, outstanding warrants to purchase 2,012,034 shares of common stock and outstanding convertible debentures to acquire 374,346 shares of common stock. The exercise or conversion of these securities and sales of common stock issuable pursuant to them, would reduce a stockholder’s percentage voting and ownership interest. The stock options, warrants and convertible debentures are likely to be exercised when our common stock is trading at a price that is higher than the exercise or conversion price of these securities, and we would be able to obtain a higher price for our common stock than we will receive under such securities. The exercise or conversion, or potential exercise or conversion, of these stock options, warrants and convertible debentures could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and adversely affect the terms on which we could obtain additional financing, if needed. The large number of shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The sale, or availability for sale, of a substantial number of shares of common stock in the public market could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our equity securities. At December 31, 2012, there were 7,130,226 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. Of these shares, approximately 5,785,020 are freely transferable. Our executive officers and directors beneficially own 1,345,206 shares, which would be eligible for resale, subject to the volume and manner of sale limitations of Rule 144 under the Securities Act. An additional 1,043,674 shares are “restricted shares,” as that term is defined in Rule 144, and are eligible for sale under the provisions of Rule 144. Our common stock is currently considered a “penny stock” and may be difficult to sell unless we obtain a Nasdaq listing. Our common stock is subject to certain rules and regulations relating to “penny stock.” A “penny stock” is generally defined as any equity security that has a price less than $5.00 per share and that is not quoted on a national securities exchange such as Nasdaq. Being a penny stock generally means that any broker who wants to trade in our shares (other than with established clients and certain institutional investors) must comply with certain “sales practice requirements,” including delivery to the prospective purchaser of the penny stock a risk disclosure document describing the penny stock market and the risks associated with it. These penny stock rules make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend our common stock and, as a result, our stockholders may have difficulty in selling their shares in the secondary trading market. This lack of liquidity may also make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future through the sale of our equity securities. 14 We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock, so any return on investment must come from appreciation. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to invest all future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Therefore, any investment return in our common stock must come from increases in the trading price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable 