RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATING TO OUR OPERATIONS Increased competition or a decline in popularity of any of our radio formats could reduce our audience share and result in a loss of revenue Radio broadcasting in Mexico is highly competitive, and programming popularity, an important factor in advertising sales, is readily susceptible to change. Our average Mexico City audience share has decreased during recent years, including a decline from 33.4% in 2001 to 32.0% in 2003 and, following an increase in 2004 to 34.7%, a slight decline in 2005 to 34.6%. There can be no assurance that increased competition within, or a decline in the popularity of, a given format segment will not decrease our aggregate audience share in the future. In addition, we face strong competition from both television and various print media for advertising revenues. If we are unable to respond to an increase in competition or a decline in the popularity of any of our radio formats, our revenue and profitability could suffer material adverse consequences. If we lose one or more of our key customers, we could lose a significant amount of our revenue Our two largest individual customers in 2005, 2004 and 2003 were Gigante, S.A. de C.V. ("Gigante") and Comercial Mexicana, S.A. de C.V. ("Comercial Mexicana"). In 2005, 2004 and 2003, Gigante accounted for 4.4%, 5.6% and 3.5%, respectively, of our total broadcasting revenue, while Comercial Mexicana accounted for 4.1%, 4.9% and 3.6%, respectively, of our total broadcasting revenue. The companies comprising Grupo Carso S.A. de C.V. ("Grupo Carso"), collectively, and Grupo Gigante, S.A. de C.V. ("Grupo Gigante"), collectively, are key customers. In 2005 and 2003, the companies comprising Grupo Carso collectively accounted for 6.8% and 5.2% of our total broadcasting revenue, respectively, while in 2004, the companies comprising Grupo Gigante collectively accounted for 7.0% of our total broadcasting revenue. We cannot assure you that Gigante and Comercial Mexicana or the companies comprising Grupo Carso or Grupo Gigante will continue to purchase advertising from us at current levels. The loss of our relationship with any one of our principal customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. A decrease in advertising expenditures by political campaigns could substantially reduce our revenue Our business is significantly affected by the advertising expenditures of political parties during election campaigns in Mexico. While our revenue has increased significantly during the congressional elections that occur every three years (including in 2003 and in 2006), our revenue has increased even more significantly during presidential elections, which occur every six years (coinciding with congressional elections), including in 2000 and 2006. In 2003, 2004 and 2005, advertising by political parties accounted for 21.1%, 0.06% and 2.3% of total broadcasting revenue, respectively. In the first quarter of 2006, political advertising accounted for 31.0% of total broadcasting revenue. A decrease in advertising expenditures by political campaigns during an election year could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. The seasonal nature of our business affects our revenue Our business is seasonal. Our revenue from advertising sales, which we recognize when the advertising is aired, is generally highest in the fourth quarter because of the high level of advertising during the holiday season. Accordingly, our results of operations depend disproportionately on revenue recognized in the fourth quarter, and a low level of fourth quarter advertising revenue could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the year. 5 The Mexican Federal Competition Commission may prohibit us from making additional investments in radio operations in Mexico We, like all Mexican radio licensees, are subject to regulation by several Mexican governmental agencies. As a result of such regulation, radio licenses are subject to review and possible revocation, and licensees are prohibited from transferring or assigning their radio broadcasting licenses without prior governmental approval of both the transfer and its terms. As a result of the increase in our share of the Mexico City radio market following completion of the acquisition of Radiodifusion RED in 1996, we are required by the Mexican Comision Federal de Competencia (the "Federal Competition Commission") to seek its prior approval in connection with any future investments in radio operations in Mexico, including, without limitation, purchases and leases of radio stations, interests in other radio concerns or transmission sites, irrespective of the size of such investments or their related audience share. To the best of our knowledge, other Mexican radio broadcasting companies are not generally subject to this requirement. No assurance can be given that we will be permitted by the Federal Competition Commission to make any particular investment should we desire to do so. If the Mexican government does not renew our broadcasting licenses, our business could be harmed To broadcast commercial radio in Mexico, a broadcaster must have a license from the Secretaria de Comunicaciones y Transportes (the Secretary of Communication and Transportation or "SCT"). Because the SCT generally grants renewals to licensees that have substantially complied with applicable law, we expect that our future renewal applications will be granted. However, if we would be unable to renew these licenses in the future, our business could be significantly harmed. Our investments in non-radio businesses may not be successful due to our limited experience outside the radio broadcasting industry In addition to our ownership and operation of radio stations and the radio network, Organizacion Impulsora de Radio, we may invest from time to time in other media or communications businesses. Our experience in these businesses may be limited, and there can be no assurance that any such business venture would succeed. RISKS RELATING TO OUR PRINCIPAL SHAREHOLDERS AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE Holders of ADSs are not entitled to attend shareholders meetings and have no voting rights Holders of the CPOs, and therefore holders of the ADSs, have no voting rights with respect to the underlying Series A Shares. Pursuant to the trust agreement under which the CPOs are issued, the trustee for the CPOs will vote the Series A Shares held in the trust in the same manner as the majority of the Series A Shares that are not held in the trust and that are voted at the relevant shareholders meeting. Holders of the CPOs are not entitled to attend or to address our shareholders meetings. Certain members of the Aguirre family effectively control our management and the decisions of the shareholders, and their interests may differ from those of other shareholders Certain members of the Aguirre family have the power to elect a majority of our directors and control our management because they own a substantial majority of the outstanding Series A Shares not held in the form of CPOs. These Aguirre family members have established two Mexican trusts, which they control, that together hold 84,020,646 Series A Shares, or 51.6% of all outstanding Series A Shares as of June 15, 2006. Some of these Aguirre family members own Series A Shares and/or ADSs in addition to the Series A Shares held by the Mexican trusts. 6 Our bylaws include provisions that could delay or prevent a takeover and thus deprive you of a premium over the market price of the ADSs or otherwise adversely affect the market price of the ADSs The bylaws include certain provisions that could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our shareholders. These provisions include restrictions on the acquisition, without the approval of the Board of Directors, of shares or other securities of the Company representing 30% or more of our capital stock and restrictions on agreements and other arrangements, without the approval of the Board of Directors, for the exercise of voting rights in respect of shares representing 30% or more of the Company's capital stock. These provisions may deprive you of a premium over the market price of the ADSs or otherwise adversely affect the market price of the ADSs. Future sales of Series A Shares by the controlling shareholders may affect future market prices of the Series A Shares, CPOs and ADSs Actions by members of the Aguirre family, directly or through the two Mexican trusts through which they hold their Series A Shares, with respect to the disposition of their Series A Shares, may adversely affect the trading price of the Series A Shares or the CPOs on the Mexican Stock Exchange and the price of the ADSs on the NYSE. There are no contractual restrictions on the rights of members of the Aguirre family to sell ADSs, CPOs or Series A Shares. You may not be able to participate in any future preemptive rights offering and, as a result, your equity interest in us may be diluted Under current Mexican law, if we issue new shares for cash as a part of a capital increase, we must generally grant our shareholders the right to purchase a sufficient number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage. Rights to purchase shares in these circumstances are known as preemptive rights. We may not legally be permitted to allow holders of ADSs in the United States to exercise any preemptive rights in any future capital increases unless (i) we file a registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") with respect to that future issuance of shares or (ii) the offering qualifies for an exemption from the registration requirements of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 (the "Securities Act"). At the time of any future capital increase, we will evaluate the costs and potential liabilities associated with filing a registration statement with the SEC, the benefits of preemptive rights to holders of ADSs in the United States and any other factors that we consider important in determining whether to file a registration statement. We cannot assure you that we will file a registration statement with the SEC to allow holders of ADSs in the United States to participate in a preemptive rights offering. In addition, under current Mexican law, sales by the Depositary of preemptive rights and distribution of the proceeds from such sales to the ADS holders are not possible. As a result, the equity interest of ADS holders in us would be diluted proportionately. Under the new Mexican Securities Market Law, preemptive rights will not arise upon the sale of newly issued shares in a public offering or the resale of shares of capital stock previously repurchased by us. RISKS RELATING TO MEXICO Economic developments in Mexico may adversely affect our business Our financial condition and results of operations are generally affected by the strength of the Mexican economy, as the demand for advertising, revenue from which is the principal source of our earnings, generally declines during periods of economic difficulty. 7 In 2004 and 2005, Mexico's gross domestic product, or GDP, grew by 4.4% and 3.0%, respectively, and inflation was 5.19% and 3.33%, respectively. In 2006, according to preliminary estimates of the Mexican government, GDP is expected to grow by 4.04% and inflation is expected to be 3.4%. If the Mexican economy contracts or if inflation and interest rates increase significantly, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer material adverse consequences. Economic conditions in Mexico are heavily influenced by the condition of the U.S. economy due to various factors, including commercial trade pursuant to the North American Free Trade Agreement, U.S. investment in Mexico and emigration from Mexico to the United States. Events and conditions affecting the U.S. economy may adversely affect our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. In addition, in the past, economic crises in Asia, Russia, Brazil and other emerging markets have adversely affected the Mexican economy and could do so again. High levels of inflation and high interest rates in Mexico could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations Mexico has experienced high levels of inflation and high domestic interest rates. The annual rate of inflation, as measured by changes in the National Consumer Price Index, was 3.33% for 2005. Inflation for the first quarter of 2006 was 0.86%. If inflation in Mexico does not remain within the government's projections, we might not be able to raise our broadcast advertising rates to keep pace with inflation. More generally, the adverse effects of high inflation on the Mexican economy might result in lower demand for broadcast advertising. Interest rates on 28-day Mexican treasury bills, or Cetes, averaged 9.2% during 2005. On June 13, 2006, the 28-day Cetes rate was 7.02%. High interest rates in Mexico could adversely affect our financing costs. Political events in Mexico could affect Mexican economic policy and our operations Mexican political events may significantly affect our operations and the performance of Mexican securities, including our securities. Presidential elections in Mexico occur every six years, and the next election will occur in July 2006. Elections to both houses of the Mexican Congress will also occur in July 2006. The profile of a new administration and the overall distribution of seats in a new Congress will naturally influence regulatory policy and the overall management of the Mexican economy in future years. We cannot assure you that a new administration, with or without a majority in Congress of the same party as the president, will not have a broad adverse effect on growth trends in the Mexican broadcasting industry or in the economy generally, or directly and adversely affect us. Depreciation of the peso relative to the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations The value of the peso has been subject to significant fluctuations with respect to the U.S. dollar in the past and may be subject to significant fluctuations in the future. In 2005, the peso appreciated against the U.S. dollar by year end by 4.66%, but the average value of the peso against the U.S. dollar during 2005 was 3.89% lower than in 2004. In 2004, the peso appreciated against the U.S. dollar by year end by 0.8%, and the average value of the peso against the U.S. dollar during 2004 was 4.24% higher than in 2003. In 2003, the peso depreciated against the U.S. dollar at year end by 7.77%, and the average value of the peso against the U.S. dollar during 2003 was 11.28% lower than in 2002. No assurance can be given that the peso will not depreciate in value relative to the U.S. dollar in the future. 8 Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the peso and the U.S. dollar will affect the U.S. dollar value of an investment in our equity securities and of dividend and other distribution payments on those securities. A small portion of our operating costs is also payable in U.S. dollars. Although at March 31, 2006, we had no U.S. dollar-denominated indebtedness, we may incur non-peso-denominated indebtedness in the future. Declines in the value of the peso relative to other currencies increase our obligations payable in U.S. dollars, increase our operating costs, increase our interest costs in pesos relative to any U.S. dollar-denominated indebtedness, result in foreign exchange losses and could adversely affect our ability to meet our U.S. dollar-denominated obligations. Additionally, since substantially all our revenue is denominated in pesos, increased costs resulting from a decline in the value of the peso relative to the U.S. dollar will not be offset by any exchange-related increase in revenue. Severe devaluation or depreciation of the peso may also result in disruption of the international foreign exchange markets and may limit our ability to transfer or to convert pesos into U.S. dollars and other currencies for the purpose of making timely payments of our obligations or our operating costs payable in U.S. dollars. Developments in other emerging market countries may affect prices of the ADSs As is the case with respect to securities of issuers from other emerging markets, the market value of securities of Mexican companies is, to varying degrees, affected by economic and market conditions in other emerging market countries. Although economic conditions in these countries may differ significantly from economic conditions in Mexico, investors' reactions to developments in any of these other countries may have an adverse effect on the market value of securities of Mexican issuers. In past years, for example, prices of both Mexican debt securities and Mexican equity securities dropped substantially as a result of developments in Russia, Asia, Brazil and Argentina. 