ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Investment in our securities is subject to risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect us are described below. Before making an investment decision, the investor should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report, including the pending litigation discussed in this report, which provides a description of our current material litigation claims and assessments. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or that is currently deemed immaterial may also adversely affect our business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our securities, including our common stock, could decline significantly, and the investor could lose all or part of the investment. -8- Table of Contents We may incur impairments to goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, or long-lived assets. In accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, we test our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or if a triggering event occurs. We perform the annual impairment testing for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets in the second quarter of each fiscal year. In addition, in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, we test long-lived assets for impairment if a triggering event occurs. Significant negative industry or economic trends, including the market price of our common stock continuing to trade below its book value, reduced estimates of future cash flows, disruptions to our business, slower growth rates or lack of growth in our business, have resulted in significant write-downs and impairment charges in 2008, and, if such events continue, may indicate that additional impairment charges in future periods are required. If we are required to record additional impairment charges, this could have a material adverse affect on our consolidated financial statements. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded $290.2 million in aggregate non-cash impairment charges to write-down certain portions of our goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets to their fair value at December 31, 2008. The impairment test for these assets was principally due to the decline in our stock price that caused our book value to exceed our market capitalization, which was an indication that these assets may not be recoverable. The primary reason for these impairment charges relates to the ongoing recession, which has caused us to reduce our estimates for projected cash flows, has reduced overall industry valuations, and has caused an increase in discount rates in the credit and equity markets. Our business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer spending as a result of downturns in the economy. Consumer demand for casino hotel properties, such as ours, are particularly sensitive to downturns in the economy and the corresponding impact on discretionary spending on leisure activities. Changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences brought about by factors such as perceived or actual general economic conditions, the current housing crisis and the credit crisis, the impact of high energy and food costs, the increased cost of travel, the potential for continued bank failures, perceived or actual disposable consumer income and wealth, effects of the current recession and changes in consumer confidence in the economy, or fears of war and future acts of terrorism could further reduce customer demand for the amenities that we offer, thus imposing practical limits on pricing and harming our operations. The current housing crisis and economic slowdown in the United States has resulted in a significant decline in the amount of tourism and spending in Las Vegas. If this decline continues, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. Our common stock price may fluctuate substantially, and a shareholder’s investment could decline in value. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to many factors, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations; • announcements of significant acquisitions or other agreements by us or by our competitors; • our sale of common stock or other securities in the future; • trading volume of our common stock; • conditions and trends in the gaming and destination entertainment industries; • changes in the estimation of the future size and growth of our markets; and • general economic conditions, including, without limitation, changes in the cost of fuel and air travel. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to companies’ operating performance. Broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, shareholder derivative lawsuits and/or securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. -9- Table of Contents Intense competition exists in the gaming industry, and we expect competition to continue to intensify. The gaming industry is highly competitive for both customers and employees, including those at the management level. We compete with numerous casinos and hotel casinos of varying quality and size in market areas where our properties are located. We also compete with other non-gaming resorts and vacation destinations, and with various other casino and other entertainment businesses, and could compete with any new forms of gaming that may be legalized in the future. The casino entertainment business is characterized by competitors that vary considerably in their size, quality of facilities, number of operations, brand identities, marketing and growth strategies, financial strength and capabilities, level of amenities, management talent and geographic diversity. In most markets, we compete directly with other casino facilities operating in the immediate and surrounding market areas. In some markets, we face competition from nearby markets in addition to direct competition within our market areas. In recent years, with fewer new markets opening for development, competition in existing markets has intensified. We have invested in expanding existing facilities, developing new facilities, and acquiring established facilities in existing markets. In addition, our competitors have also invested in expanding their existing facilities and developing new facilities. This expansion of existing casino entertainment properties, the increase in the number of properties and the aggressive marketing strategies of many of our competitors have increased competition in many markets in which we compete, and this intense competition can be expected to continue. If our competitors operate more successfully than we do, if they are more successful than us in attracting and retaining employees, if their properties are enhanced or expanded, or if additional hotels and casinos are established in and around the locations in which we conduct business, we may lose market share or the ability to attract or retain employees. In particular, the expansion of casino gaming in or near any geographic area from which we attract or expect to attract a significant number of our customers could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also compete with legalized gaming from casinos located on Native American tribal lands. Expansion of Native American gaming in areas located near our properties, or in areas in or near those from which we draw our customers, could have an adverse effect on our operating results. For example, a federally recognized Native American tribe commenced operations of a casino located near Blue Chip in August 2007. Although we have expanded our facility at Blue Chip in an effort to be more competitive in this market, this casino has had, and could continue to have, an adverse impact on the operations of Blue Chip. -10- Table of Contents Our expansion, development, investment and renovation projects may face significant risks inherent in construction projects or implementing a new marketing strategy, including receipt of necessary government approvals. We regularly evaluate expansion, development, investment and renovation opportunities. On January 4, 2006, we announced our planned Las Vegas Strip development, Echelon, which, when, or if, we resume construction, would be the largest and most expensive development project we have undertaken to date. In addition, we recently announced the completion of the new hotel at Blue Chip and that Borgata recently completed The Water Club, a second hotel at the property. We also closed on our acquisition of Dania Jai-Alai in March 2007. These projects and any other development projects we may undertake will be subject to the many risks inherent in the expansion or renovation of an existing enterprise or construction of a new enterprise, including unanticipated design, construction, regulatory, environmental and operating problems and lack of demand for our projects. Our current and future projects could also experience: • delays and significant cost increases; • shortages of materials; • shortages of skilled labor or work stoppages; • poor performance or nonperformance by any of our joint venture partners or other third parties on whom we place reliance; • unforeseen construction scheduling, engineering, environmental, permitting, construction or geological problems; and • weather interference, floods, fires or other casualty losses. The completion dates of any of our projects could differ significantly from expectations for construction-related or other reasons. For example, on August 1, 2008, we announced that, due to the difficult environment in the capital markets, as well as weak economic conditions, our Echelon project would be delayed. Due to the continued deterioration in credit market conditions and the economic outlook, it is unlikely that we will resume construction in 2009. In addition, actual costs and construction periods for any of our projects can differ significantly from initial expectations. Our initial project costs and construction periods are based upon budgets, conceptual design documents and construction schedule estimates prepared at inception of the project in consultation with architects and contractors. Many of these costs can increase over time as the project is built to completion. For example, prior to delaying construction at Echelon, we announced that the estimated cost of the wholly-owned portion of Echelon increased by approximately $0.4 billion, principally as a result of additional scope, larger guest rooms and suites, and increased estimated construction costs, and that the estimated development costs associated with certain joint venture properties to be developed and constructed in connection with Echelon increased by approximately $250 million. We have incurred significant costs in connection with delaying construction of Echelon and anticipate that additional cost increases could continue to occur if we recommence development of Echelon. The cost of any project may vary significantly from initial budget expectations and we may have a limited amount of capital resources to fund cost overruns. If we cannot finance cost overruns on a timely basis, the completion of one or more projects may be delayed until adequate funding is available. We can provide no assurance that any project will be completed on time, if at all, or within established budgets, or that any project will result in increased earnings to us. Significant delays, cost overruns, or failures of our projects to achieve market acceptance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, our projects may not help us compete with new or increased competition in our markets. Certain permits, licenses and approvals necessary for some of our current or anticipated projects have not yet been obtained. The scope of the approvals required for expansion, development, investment or renovation projects can be extensive and may include gaming approvals, state and local land-use permits and building and zoning permits. Unexpected changes or concessions required by local, state or federal regulatory authorities could involve significant additional costs and delay the scheduled openings of the facilities. We may not obtain the necessary permits, licenses and approvals within the anticipated time frames, or at all. In addition, although we design our projects to minimize disruption of our existing business operations, expansion and renovation projects require, from time to time, all or portions of affected existing operations to be closed or disrupted. For example, after closing the Stardust in November 2006, we demolished the property in March 2007 to make way for the development of Echelon. Any significant disruption in operations of a property could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. -11- Table of Contents We face risks associated with growth and acquisitions. As part of our business strategy, we regularly evaluate opportunities for growth through development of gaming operations in existing or new markets, through acquiring other gaming entertainment facilities or through redeveloping our existing gaming facilities. For example, in 2007, we completed the Barbary Coast exchange transaction and completed the acquisition of Dania Jai-Alai. In 2008, we completed the new hotel project at Blue Chip. We may also pursue expansion opportunities, including joint ventures, in jurisdictions where casino gaming is not currently permitted in order to be prepared to develop projects upon approval of casino gaming. The expansion of our operations, whether through acquisitions, development or internal growth, could divert management’s attention and could also cause us to incur substantial costs, including legal, professional and consulting fees. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, acquire, develop or profitably manage additional companies or operations or successfully integrate such companies or operations into our existing operations without substantial costs, delays or other problems. Additionally, there can be no assurance that we will receive gaming or other necessary licenses or approvals for our new projects or that gaming will be approved in jurisdictions where it is not currently approved. Ballot measures or other voter-approved initiatives to allow gaming in jurisdictions where gaming, or certain types of gaming (such as slots), was not previously permitted could be challenged, and, if such challenges are successful, these ballot measures or initiatives could be invalidated. For example, the Florida ballot measure to amend the Florida Constitution to allow Florida voters to approve slot machines at certain pari-mutuel gaming facilities in Miami-Dade and Broward Counties (the “Slot Initiative”), where Dania Jai Alai is located, has been subject to legal challenge since 2004 and remains unresolved. If the Slot Initiative is ultimately invalidated, we would not be permitted to operate slot machines at the Dania Jai-Alai facility, which would materially affect any potential revenue and cash flow expected from the Dania Jai-Alai facility. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that there will not be similar or other challenges to legalized gaming in existing or current markets in which we may operate or have development plans, and successful challenges to legalized gaming could require us to abandon or substantially curtail our operations or development plans in those locations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. On August 1, 2008, we announced that, due to the difficult environment in both the capital markets and the economy, our Echelon project would be delayed. Due to the continued deterioration in credit market conditions and the economic outlook, it is unlikely that we will resume construction in 2009. We can provide no assurances regarding the timing or effects of our delay of construction at Echelon and when, or if, construction will recommence, the effect that such delay will have on our business, operations or financial condition, the effect that such delay will have on our joint venture partners, and whether such participants (or other Echelon project participants) will terminate their agreements or arrangements with us. In addition, our agreements or arrangements with third parties could require additional fees or terms in connection with modifying their agreements that may be unfavorable to us, and we can provide no assurances that we will be able to reach agreement on any modified terms. Additionally, in February 2008, management determined to indefinitely postpone redevelopment of our Dania Jai-Alai facility, and in connection with that determination we recorded an $84.0 million non-cash impairment charge to write-off Dania Jai-Alai’s intangible license right and write-down its property and equipment to their estimated fair values. Our decision to postpone the development was based on numerous factors, including the introduction of expanded gaming at a nearby Native American casino, the potential for additional casino gaming venues in Florida, and the existing Broward County pari-mutuel casinos performing below our expectations for the market. There can be no assurance that we will not face similar challenges and difficulties with respect to new development projects or expansion efforts that we may undertake, which could result in significant sunk costs that we may not be able to fully recoup or that otherwise have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to finance our expansion, development, investment and renovation projects, as well as other capital expenditures, through cash flow, borrowings under our bank credit facility and additional financings, our expansion, development, investment and renovation efforts will be jeopardized. We intend to finance our current and future expansion, development, investment and renovation projects, as well as our other capital expenditures, primarily with cash flow from operations, borrowings under our bank credit facility, and equity or debt financings. If we are unable to finance our current or future expansion, development, investment and renovation -12- Table of Contents projects, or our other capital expenditures, we will have to adopt one or more alternatives, such as reducing, delaying or abandoning planned expansion, development, investment and renovation projects as well as other capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring debt, reducing the amount or suspending or discontinuing the distribution of dividends, obtaining additional equity financing or joint venture partners, or modifying our bank credit facility. These sources of funds may not be sufficient to finance our expansion, development, investment and renovation projects, and other financing may not be available on acceptable terms, in a timely manner, or at all. In addition, our existing indebtedness contains certain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness. If we are unable to secure additional financing, we could be forced to limit or suspend expansion, development, investment and renovation projects and other capital expenditures, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, there have recently been significant disruptions in the global capital markets that have adversely impacted the ability of borrowers to access capital. We anticipate that these disruptions may continue for the foreseeable future. We anticipate that we will be able to fund our currently active expansion projects using cash flows from operations and availability under our bank credit facility (to the extent that availability exists after we meet our working capital needs). In addition, we recently announced that we submitted a nonbinding indication of interest to Station Casinos, Inc. (“Station”), and that if a transaction with Station were to occur, we would use availability under our bank credit facility to finance such transaction. If availability under our bank credit facility does not exist or we are otherwise unable to make sufficient borrowings thereunder, any additional financing that is needed may not be available to us or, if available, may not be on terms favorable to us. As a result, if we are unable to obtain adequate project financing in a timely manner or at all, we may be forced to sell assets in order to raise capital for projects, limit the scope of , or defer, such projects, or cancel the projects altogether. Given the current state of the credit markets and the overall economy, we announced, on August 1, 2008, that we are delaying our Echelon project. In the event that capital markets do not improve and we or our joint venture participants are unable to access capital with more favorable terms, additional equity and/or credit support may be necessary to obtain construction financing for the remaining cost of the project. This additional equity and/or credit support may need to be contributed by us or our joint venture participants, or from both parties, and/or from one or more additional equity sponsors. If a joint venture obtains equity financing from additional sponsors, then our percentage interest in the project and resulting cash flows will be diluted. If a joint venture is unable to obtain adequate project financing in a timely manner, or at all, we may be forced to sell assets in order to raise capital for the project, limit the scope of the project, defer the project, or cancel the project altogether. If we are not ultimately successful in dismissing the action filed against Treasure Chest Casino, we may potentially lose our ability to operate the Treasure Chest Casino property and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Alvin C. Copeland, the sole shareholder (deceased) of an unsuccessful applicant for a riverboat license at the location of our Treasure Chest Casino, has made several attempts to have the Treasure Chest license revoked and awarded to his company. In 1999 and 2000, Copeland unsuccessfully opposed the renewal of the Treasure Chest license and has brought two separate legal actions against Treasure Chest. In November 1993, Copeland objected to the relocation of Treasure Chest from the Mississippi River to its current site on Lake Pontchartrain. The predecessor to the Louisiana Gaming Control Board allowed the relocation over Copeland’s objection. Copeland then filed an appeal of the agency’s decision with the Nineteenth Judicial District Court. Through a number of amendments to the appeal, Copeland unsuccessfully attempted to transform the appeal into a direct action suit and sought the revocation of the Treasure Chest license. Treasure Chest intervened in the matter in order to protect its interests. The appeal/suit, as it related to Treasure Chest, was dismissed by the District Court and that dismissal was upheld on appeal by the First Circuit Court of Appeal. Additionally, in 1999, Copeland filed a direct action against Treasure Chest and certain other parties seeking the revocation of Treasure Chest’s license, an award of the license to him, and monetary damages. The suit was dismissed by the trial court, citing that Copeland failed to state a claim on which relief could be granted. The dismissal was appealed by Copeland to the Louisiana First Circuit Court of Appeal. On June 21, 2002, the First Circuit Court of Appeal reversed the trial court’s decision and remanded the matter to the trial court. On January 14, 2003, we filed a motion to dismiss the matter and that motion was partially denied. The Court of Appeal refused to reverse the denial of the motion to dismiss. In May 2004, we filed additional motions to dismiss on other grounds. There was no activity regarding this matter during 2005 and 2006, and the case was set to be dismissed by the court for failure to prosecute by the plaintiffs in mid-May 2007; however on May 1, 2007, the plaintiff filed a motion to set a hearing date related to the motions to dismiss. The hearing was scheduled for September 10, 2007, at which time all parties agreed to postpone the hearing indefinitely. Mr. Copeland recently passed away and his son, the executor of his estate, has petitioned the court to be substituted as plaintiff in the case. We currently are vigorously defending the lawsuit. If this matter ultimately results in the Treasure Chest license being revoked, it could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. -13- Table of Contents We are subject to extensive governmental gaming regulation and taxation policies, which may harm our business. We are subject to a variety of regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Regulatory authorities at the federal, state and local levels have broad powers with respect to the licensing of casino operations and may revoke, suspend, condition or limit our gaming or other licenses, impose substantial fines and take other actions, any one of which could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A more detailed description of the governmental gaming regulations to which we are subject is included in Exhibit 99.1 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and incorporated herein by reference. If additional gaming regulations are adopted in a jurisdiction in which we operate, such regulations could impose restrictions or costs that could have a significant adverse effect on us. From time to time, various proposals are introduced in the legislatures of some of the jurisdictions in which we have existing or planned operations that, if enacted, could adversely affect the tax, regulatory, operational or other aspects of the gaming industry and our company. Legislation of this type may be enacted in the future. For example, on January 15, 2006, the New Jersey State Legislature enacted the Smoke-Free Air Act, effective April 15, 2006. This law called for smoke-free environments in essentially all indoor workplaces and areas open to the public, including places of business and service-related activities. The law contained several exemptions, including an exemption for all casino floor space and 20% of a hotel’s designated hotel rooms. On February 15, 2007, the Atlantic City Council promulgated the first of a series of local ordinances that were more restrictive than the aforementioned state law. Specifically, the first ordinance reduced the casino floor exemption to 25% of a casino’s floor space. Ultimately, such 25% of casino floor space in which smoking would be permitted was required to be enclosed and separately ventilated; however, before any gaming enclosures were constructed in accordance with this first local ordinance, the Atlantic City Council voted an amendment to prohibit smoking on 100% of the casino floor, limiting smoking to enclosed and separately ventilated non-gaming lounges. This revised ban became effective October 15, 2008, prior to which several Atlantic City casinos, including Borgata, had constructed the permitted non-gaming smoking lounges. On October 27, 2008, after the 100% smoking ban (with non-gaming lounges) had been in place for 12 days, the Atlantic City Council voted to suspend for one year the then current ordinance and reverted back to the 75% non-smoking and 25% smoking configuration, without the requirement of enclosures. The avowed reason for the suspension of the 100% smoking ban ordinance was the current national and regional economic crisis. The ruling further states that the smoking ban ordinance will be reconsidered on or about the one-year anniversary date of the passage date of the ordinance, which will be on or about October 27, 2009. As per applicable law, this most recent ordinance became effective on November 16, 2008, prior to which the 100% smoking ban was in effect for 32 days. Thereafter, smoking will be permitted once again on 25% of a casino’s floor space and prohibited on 75% of a casino’s floor space, as was the case from April 15, 2007 until October 15, 2008. Under all versions of the Atlantic City Council ordinance, including the current amendment, smoking has been, and will remain, permissible in 20% of a hotel’s designated hotel rooms, consistent with New Jersey State Law. This legislation, and the local ordinance, could materially impact Borgata’s results of operations; similar legislation in other jurisdictions in which we operate could materially impact the results of operations of our other properties. In addition, the State of Illinois enacted a 100% smoking ban in all casinos, effective January 1, 2008. The federal government has also previously considered a federal tax on casino revenues and may consider such a tax in the future. In addition, gaming companies are currently subject to significant state and local taxes and fees, in addition to normal federal and state corporate income taxes, and such taxes and fees are subject to increase at any time. For example, in November 2007, Nevada’s largest teachers union, the Nevada State Educational Association, submitted a petition to the Nevada Secretary of State’s Office seeking to increase the gross gaming revenue tax from 6.75% to 9.75%. If this petition is successful, it could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. In June 2006, the Illinois legislature passed certain amendments to the Riverboat Gambling Act, which affected the tax rate at Par-A-Dice. The legislation, which imposes an incremental 5% tax on adjusted gross gaming revenues, was retroactive to July 1, 2005. As a result of this legislation, we were required to pay additional taxes, resulting in a $6.7 million tax assessment in June 2006. Also, in May 2007, Blue Chip received a valuation notice indicating an unanticipated increase of nearly 400% to its assessed property value as of January 1, 2006. At that time, we estimated that the increase in assessed property value could result in a property tax assessment ranging between $4 million and $11 million for the eighteen-month period ended June 30, 2007. We recorded an additional charge of $3.2 million during the three months ended June 30, 2007 to increase our property tax liability to $5.8 million at June 30, 2007, as we believed that was the most likely amount to be assessed within the range. In December 2007, we received a property tax bill related to our 2006 tax assessment for $6.2 million. As we have appealed the assessment, Indiana statutes allow for a minimum required payment of $1.9 million, which was paid against the $6.2 million assessment in January 2008. In February 2009, we received a notice of revaluation, which reduced the property’s assessed value by $100 million and the tax assessment by approximately $2.2 million per year. We believe the assessment for the thirty six-month -14- Table of Contents period ended December 31, 2008 could result in a property tax assessment ranging between $6.5 million and $14 million. We have accrued a property tax liability of approximately $13 million as of December 31, 2008, based on what we believe to be the most likely assessment within our range, once all appeals have been exhausted; however, we can provide no assurances that the estimated amount will approximate the actual amount. The final 2006 assessment, post appeals, as well as the March 1, 2007 and 2008 assessment notices, which have not been received as of December 31, 2008, could result in further adjustment to our estimated property tax liability at Blue Chip. If there is any material increase in state and local taxes and fees, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our directors, officers and other key employees must meet approval standards of certain state regulatory authorities. If state regulatory authorities were to find a person occupying any such position unsuitable, we would be required to sever our relationship with that person. Certain public and private issuances of securities and other transactions we are party to also require the approval of some state regulatory authorities. In addition to gaming regulations, we are also subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting businesses in general. These laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, restrictions and conditions concerning alcoholic beverages, environmental matters, employees, currency transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes, and marketing and advertising. Such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. For example, on July 5, 2006, New Jersey gaming properties, including Borgata, were required to temporarily close their casinos for three days as a result of a New Jersey statewide government shutdown that affected certain New Jersey state employees required to be at casinos when they are open for business. In addition, Nevada recently enacted legislation that eliminated, in most instances, and, for certain pre-existing development projects such as Echelon or, otherwise reduced, property tax breaks and retroactively eliminated certain sales tax exemptions offered as incentives to companies developing projects that meet certain environmental “green” standards. As a result, we, along with other companies developing projects that meet such standards, may not realize the full tax benefits that were originally anticipated. We own facilities that are located in areas that experience extreme weather conditions. We own facilities that are located in areas that experience extreme weather conditions, including, but not limited to, hurricanes. Extreme weather conditions may interrupt our operations, damage our properties and reduce the number of customers who visit our facilities in the affected areas. For example, our Treasure Chest Casino, which is located near New Orleans, Louisiana, suffered minor damage and was closed on August 30, 2008 for eight days over Labor Day weekend, as the New Orleans area was under mandatory evacuation orders during Hurricane Gustav. Hurricane Ike resulted in a two-day closure starting September 12 at Treasure Chest. Additionally, at our Delta Downs Racetrack Casino & Hotel, which is located in Southwest Louisiana, Hurricane Gustav forced us to close for six days, beginning on August 30, 2008, and Hurricane Ike led to a second closure from September 11, 2008 to September 17, 2008. The hurricane closures during the three months ended September 30, 2008 totaled 10 days for Treasure Chest and 13 days for Delta Downs, including two full weekends at both properties. While we maintain insurance coverage that may cover certain of the costs that we incur as a result of some extreme weather conditions, our coverage is subject to deductibles and limits on maximum benefits. There can be no assurance that we will be able to fully collect, if at all, on any claims resulting from extreme weather conditions. If any of our properties are damaged or if their operations are disrupted as a result of extreme weather in the future, or if extreme weather adversely impacts general economic or other conditions in the areas in which our properties are located or from which they draw their patrons, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that our properties could suffer. In addition, our insurance costs may increase and we may not be able to obtain similar insurance coverage in the future. Although we have “all risk” property insurance coverage for our operating properties covering damage caused by a casualty loss (such as fire, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism), each policy has certain exclusions. In addition, our property insurance coverage is in an amount that may be significantly less than the expected replacement cost of rebuilding the facilities if there was a total loss. Our level of insurance coverage also may not be adequate to cover all losses in the event of a major casualty. In addition, certain casualty events, such as labor strikes, nuclear events, acts of war, loss of income due to cancellation of room reservations or conventions due to fear of terrorism, deterioration or corrosion, insect or animal damage and pollution, may not be covered at all under our policies. Therefore, certain acts could expose us to substantial uninsured losses. -15- Table of Contents We also have “builder’s risk” insurance coverage for our development and expansion projects, including Echelon. Builder’s risk insurance provides coverage for projects during their construction for damage caused by a casualty loss. In general, our builder’s risk coverage is subject to the same exclusions, risks and deficiencies as those described above for our all risk property coverage. Our level of builder’s risk insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all losses in the event of a major casualty. In addition to the damage caused to our properties by a casualty loss, we may suffer business disruption as a result of these events or be subject to claims by third parties that may be injured or harmed. While we carry business interruption insurance and general liability insurance, this insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses in any such event. We renew our insurance policies (other than our builder’s risk insurance) on an annual basis. The cost of coverage may become so high that we may need to further reduce our policy limits or agree to certain exclusions from our coverage. Our debt instruments and other material agreements require us to maintain a certain minimum level of insurance coverage. Failure to satisfy these requirements could result in an event of default under these debt instruments or material agreements. Our facilities, including our riverboats and dockside facilities, are subject to risks relating to mechanical failure and regulatory compliance. Generally, all of our facilities are subject to the risk that operations could be halted for a temporary or extended period of time, as the result of casualty, forces of nature, mechanical failure, or extended or extraordinary maintenance, among other causes. In addition, our gaming operations, including those conducted on riverboats or at dockside facilities could be damaged or halted due to extreme weather conditions. We currently conduct our Treasure Chest, Par-A-Dice, Blue Chip and Sam’s Town Shreveport gaming operations on riverboats. Each of our riverboats must comply with U.S. Coast Guard requirements as to boat design, on-board facilities, equipment, personnel and safety. Each riverboat must hold a Certificate of Inspection for stabilization and flotation, and may also be subject to local zoning codes. The U.S. Coast Guard requirements establish design standards, set limits on the operation of the vessels and require individual licensing of all personnel involved with the operation of the vessels. Loss of a vessel’s Certificate of Inspection or American Bureau of Shipping approval would preclude its use as a casino. U.S. Coast Guard regulations require a hull inspection for all riverboats at five-year intervals. Under certain circumstances, alternative hull inspections may be approved. The U.S. Coast Guard may require that such hull inspections be conducted at a dry-docking facility, and if so required, the cost of travel to and from such docking facility, as well as the time required for inspections of the affected riverboats, could be significant. To date, the U.S. Coast Guard has allowed in-place inspections of our riverboats. The U.S. Coast Guard may not allow these types of inspections in the future. The loss of a dockside casino or riverboat casino from service for any period of time could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. U.S. Coast Guard regulations also require us to prepare and follow certain security programs. In 2004, we implemented the American Gaming Association’s Alternative Security Program at our riverboat casinos and dockside facilities. The American Gaming Association’s Alternative Security Program is specifically designed to address maritime security requirements at riverboat casinos and their respective dockside facilities. Changes to these regulations could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We draw a significant percentage of our customers from limited geographic regions. Events adversely impacting the economy or these regions, including man-made or natural disasters, may also impact our business. California, Fremont and Main Street Station draw a substantial portion of their customers from the Hawaiian market. For the year ended December 31, 2008, patrons from Hawaii comprised approximately 66% of the room nights sold at California, 52% at Fremont and 52% at Main Street Station. Decreases in discretionary consumer spending due to the recession, as well as an increase in fuel costs or transportation prices, a decrease in airplane seat availability, or a deterioration of relations with tour and travel agents, particularly as they affect travel between the Hawaiian market and our facilities, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. -16- Table of Contents Our Las Vegas properties also draw a substantial number of customers from certain other specific geographic areas, including locally, Southern California and Arizona. Native American casinos in California and other parts of the United States have diverted some potential visitors away from Nevada, which has had and could continue to have a negative effect on Nevada gaming markets. In addition, due to our significant concentration of properties in Nevada, any man-made or natural disasters in or around Nevada, or the areas from which we draw customers to our Las Vegas properties, could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Each of our properties located outside of Nevada depends primarily on visitors from their respective surrounding regions and are subject to comparable risk. The outbreak of public health threats at any of our properties or in the areas in which they are located, or the perception that such threats exist, as well as adverse economic conditions that affect the national or regional economies, whether resulting from war, terrorist activities or other geopolitical conflict, weather, general or localized economic downturns or related events or other factors, could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, to the extent that the airline industry is negatively impacted due to the effects of the recession, outbreak of war, public health threats, terrorist or similar activity, increased security restrictions or the public’s general reluctance to travel by air, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be significantly adversely affected. Energy price increases may adversely affect our cost of operations and our revenues. Our casino properties use significant amounts of electricity, natural gas and other forms of energy. In addition, our Hawaiian air charter operation uses a significant amount of jet fuel. While no shortages of energy or fuel have been experienced to date, substantial increases in energy and fuel prices, including jet fuel prices, in the United States have, and may continue to, negatively affect our results of operations. The extent of the impact is subject to the magnitude and duration of the energy and fuel price increases, of which the impact could be material. In addition, energy and gasoline price increases could result in a decline of disposable income of potential customers, an increase in the cost of travel and a corresponding decrease in visitation and spending at our properties, which could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain of our stockholders own large interests in our capital stock and may significantly influence our affairs. William S. Boyd, our Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors, together with his immediate family, beneficially owned approximately 36% of the Company’s outstanding shares of common stock as of December 31, 2008. As such, the Boyd family has the ability to significantly influence our affairs, including the election of members of our Board of Directors and, except as otherwise provided by law, approving or disapproving other matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including a merger, consolidation, or sale of assets. Some of our hotels and casinos are located on leased property. If we default on one or more leases, the applicable lessors could terminate the affected leases and we could lose possession of the affected hotel and/or casino. We lease certain parcels of land on which The Orleans, Suncoast, Sam’s Town Tunica, Treasure Chest and Sam’s Town Shreveport are located. In addition, we lease other parcels of land on which portions of the California and the Fremont are located. If we were to default on any one or more of these leases, the applicable lessors could terminate the affected leases and we could lose possession of the affected land and any improvements on the land, including the hotels and casinos. This would have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations as we would then be unable to operate all or portions of the affected facilities. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. We had total consolidated long-term debt, net of current maturities, of approximately $2.6 billion at December 31, 2008. We expect that our long-term indebtedness will substantially increase in connection with capital expenditures that we anticipate making as a result of our planned expansion, development, investment and renovation projects. This indebtedness could have important consequences, including: • difficulty in satisfying our obligations under our current indebtedness; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; -17- Table of Contents • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, expansion efforts and other general corporate purposes; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • placing us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • limiting, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds. Failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could have a significant adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our debt instruments contain, and any future debt instruments likely will contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt, including providing guarantees or credit support; • incur liens securing indebtedness or other obligations; • dispose of assets; • make certain acquisitions; • pay dividends or make distributions and make other restricted payments; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • engage in any new businesses; and • enter into transactions with our stockholders and our affiliates. In addition, our bank credit facility requires us to maintain certain ratios, including a minimum interest coverage ratio of 2.00 to 1.00 and a total leverage ratio that adjusts over the life of the bank credit facility. Our future debt agreements could contain financial or other covenants more restrictive than those applicable under our existing instruments. Our current debt service requirements on our bank credit facility primarily consist of interest payments on outstanding indebtedness. The bank credit facility is a $4.0 billion revolving credit facility that matures in May 2012. Subject to certain limitations, we may, at any time, without the consent of the lenders under our bank credit facility, request incremental commitments to increase the size of the bank credit facility, or request new commitments to add a term loan facility, by up to an aggregate amount of $1.0 billion. Debt service requirements under our current outstanding senior subordinated notes consist of semi-annual interest payments (based upon fixed annual interest rates ranging from 6.75% to 7.75%) and repayment of our senior subordinated notes due on December 15, 2012, April 15, 2014, and February 1, 2016 for each of our 7.75%, 6.75% and 7.125% senior subordinated notes, respectively. We are in compliance with the Total Leverage Ratio covenant under our bank credit facility, which was 5.65 to 1.00 at December 31, 2008. During 2009, assuming our current level of Consolidated Funded Indebtedness remains constant, we estimate that a 13% or greater decline in our twelve-month trailing Consolidated EBITDA, as compared to 2008, would cause us to exceed our maximum Total Leverage Ratio covenant for that period. However, in the event that we project that our Consolidated EBITDA may decline by 13% or more, we could implement certain actions in an effort to minimize the possibility of a breach of the Total Leverage Ratio covenant. These actions may include, among others, reducing payroll and certain other operating costs, deferring or eliminating certain maintenance, expansion or other capital expenditures, reducing our outstanding indebtedness through repurchases or redemption, selling assets or issuing equity. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, and to fund planned capital expenditures and expansion efforts will depend upon our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. It is unlikely that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our bank credit facility, in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness as it matures and to fund our other liquidity needs. -18- Table of Contents We believe that we will need to refinance all or part of our indebtedness at or prior to each maturity; however, we may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We may have to adopt one or more alternatives, such as reducing or delaying planned expenses and capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring debt, or obtaining additional equity or debt financing or joint venture partners. These financing strategies may not be affected on satisfactory terms, if at all. In addition, certain state laws contain restrictions on the ability of companies engaged in the gaming business to undertake certain financing transactions, therefore preventing us from obtaining necessary capital. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 