RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Operations Increased competition or a decline in popularity of any of our radio formats could reduce our audience share and result in a loss of revenue Radio broadcasting in Mexico is highly competitive, and programming popularity, an important factor in advertising sales, is readily susceptible to change. There can be no assurance that increased competition within, or a decline in the popularity of, a given format will not decrease our aggregate audience share in the future. In addition, we face strong competition for advertising revenues from both television and various print media. If we are unable to respond to an increase in competition or a decline in the popularity of any of our radio formats, our revenue and profitability could suffer material adverse consequences. If we lose one or more of our key customers, we could lose a significant amount of our revenue Our two largest individual customers in 2007 and 2008 were Nueva Wal Mart de México, S.A.B. de C.V. (“Nueva Wal Mart”) and Tiendas Comercial Mexicana, S.A.B. de C.V. (“Comercial Mexicana”). In 2008, Nueva Wal Mart represented 6.6% and Comercial Mexicana represented 3.7% of our total broadcasting revenue. In 2007, Nueva Wal Mart represented 5.6% and Comercial Mexicana represented 4.2% of our total broadcasting revenue. Our two largest individual customers in 2006 were Compañía Cervecera del Trópico, S.A. de C.V. and Comercial Mexicana, representing 3.7% and 3.4%, respectively, of our total broadcasting revenue. In 2006, Gigante, S.A. de C.V. was also a large individual customer, accounting for 2.3% of our total broadcasting revenue. The companies comprising Grupo Cifra and Grupo Carso are also key customers, representing 7.7% and 7.3%, respectively, of our total broadcasting revenue in 2008. In October 2008, Comercial Mexicana’s parent company, Controladora Comercial Mexicana, S.A.B. de C.V., defaulted on certain of its debt and filed for bankruptcy protection in the Mexican courts. Although Comercial Mexicana has continued to purchase advertising from us, we cannot predict how the restructuring of Controladora Comercial Mexicana, S.A.B. de C.V. will affect Comercial Mexicana or its continued relationship with us. We also cannot assure you that Nueva Wal Mart, Comercial Mexicana or the companies comprising Grupo Carso and Grupo Cifra will continue to purchase advertising from us at current levels or at all. The loss of our relationship with any one of our principal customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The seasonal nature of our business affects our revenue Our business is seasonal. Our revenue from advertising sales, which we recognize when the advertising is aired, is generally highest in the fourth quarter because of the high level of advertising during the holiday season. Accordingly, our results of operations depend disproportionately on revenue recognized in the fourth quarter, and a low level of fourth quarter advertising revenue could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the year. The decrease in advertising expenditures by political campaigns will substantially reduce our revenue Historically, our business has been affected significantly by the advertising expenditures of political parties during congressional elections that occur every three years, including 2003 and 2006, and during presidential elections that occur every six years (coinciding with congressional elections), including in 2000 and 2006. In 2006, advertising by political parties accounted for 19.0% of total broadcasting revenue. Mexico implemented electoral reform by amending its constitution in November 2007 and adopting an electoral code in January 2008. The constitutional amendment and the electoral code prohibit political parties from directly or indirectly purchasing broadcast time on any radio or television station. In addition, private individuals and entities are prohibited from purchasing advertising on radio or television aimed at influencing voter preferences. As a result of this change in law, we no longer receive revenues from advertising by political campaigns, which will materially impact our revenues during election years. 6 The Mexican Federal Competition Commission may prohibit us from making additional investments in radio operations in Mexico We, like all Mexican radio licensees, are subject to regulation by several Mexican governmental agencies. As a result of such regulation, radio licenses are subject to review and possible revocation, and licensees are prohibited from transferring or assigning their radio broadcasting licenses without prior governmental approval of both the transfer and its terms. As a result of the increase in our share of the Mexico City radio market following the acquisition of Radiodifusión RED, S.A. in 1996, we are required by the Mexican Comisión Federal de Competencia (Federal Competition Commission) to seek its prior approval in connection with any future investments in radio operations in Mexico, including, without limitation, purchases and leases of radio stations, interests in other radio concerns or transmission sites, irrespective of the size of such investments or their related audience share. To the best of our knowledge, other Mexican radio broadcasting companies are not generally subject to this requirement. No assurance can be given that we will be permitted by the Federal Competition Commission to make any particular investment should we desire to do so. If the Mexican government does not renew our broadcasting licenses, our business could be harmed To broadcast commercial radio in Mexico, a broadcaster must have a license from the Secretaría de Comunicaciones y Transportes (Secretary of Communication and Transportation, or “SCT”). Because the SCT generally grants renewals to licensees that have substantially complied with applicable law, we expect that our future renewal applications will be granted. However, if we were unable to renew these licenses in the future, our business could be significantly harmed. We may be unsuccessful in addressing the challenges and risks presented by our investment in the United States We recently began to provide programming to, and sell advertising time on, KMVN-FM, a radio station broadcasting in Los Angeles, California, that is owned by Emmis Communications Corporation. Our investment in the United States may involve risks to which we have not previously been exposed and may present different or greater risks, including from competition and regulation, than those present in Mexico. We cannot assure you that this investment will be successful. The current credit crisis and unfavorable general economic and market conditions may negatively affect our liquidity, business, and results of operations, and may affect a portion of our client base We cannot predict the effect on our customers and us of the continued credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system. The risks associated with our business become more acute in periods of a slowing economy or recession, which may be accompanied by a decrease in advertising. A decline in the level of business activity of our advertisers could have an adverse effect on our revenue and profit margins. In response to current market conditions, customers may choose to make fewer expenditures, to slow their spending on or cancel our services or to seek contract terms more favorable to them. Adverse economic conditions may also lead to an increase in the number of our customers that are unable to pay for services. If these events were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 7 Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. Continued disruption of the credit markets could adversely affect our borrowing capacity. Our ability to expand our business may be limited if, in the future, we were unable to access or increase our existing credit facilities on favorable terms or at all. These disruptions could negatively affect our liquidity, business and results of operations. If we are required by the Mexican courts to pay a pending arbitration award, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition We are party to legal proceedings in Mexico relating to an arbitration award granted in 2004 against us in favor of Infored, S.A. de C.V. and Mr. José Gutiérrez Vivó. If we are ultimately unsuccessful in challenging the enforcement of the arbitration award, we will be required to finance all or part of the amount due. Our ability to obtain financing is subject to various factors, including general market conditions, our financial condition and results of operations and the fact that we have pledged substantially all of our assets under outstanding indebtedness. Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain financing in a timely manner, or on acceptable terms, or at all. If we incur additional indebtedness or we are unable to obtain financing when needed, our financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Principal Shareholders and Capital Structure Holders of ADSs are not entitled to attend shareholders meetings and have no voting rights Holders of the CPOs, and therefore holders of the ADSs, have no voting rights with respect to the underlying Series A Shares. Pursuant to the trust agreement under which the CPOs are issued, the trustee for the CPOs will vote the Series A Shares held in the trust in the same manner as the majority of the Series A Shares that are not held in the trust and that are voted at the relevant shareholders meeting. Holders of the CPOs are not entitled to attend or to address our shareholders meetings. Certain members of the Aguirre family effectively control our management and the decisions of the shareholders, and their interests may differ from those of other shareholders Certain members of the Aguirre family have the power to elect a majority of our directors and control our management because they own a substantial majority of the outstanding Series A Shares not held in the form of CPOs. These Aguirre family members have established a Mexican trust, which they control, that holds 84,020,646, or 51.6%, of all outstanding Series A Shares as of June 19, 2009. Our bylaws include provisions that could delay or prevent a takeover and, thus, deprive you of a premium over the market price of the ADSs or otherwise adversely affect the market price of the ADSs Our bylaws include certain provisions that could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our shareholders. These provisions include restrictions on the acquisition, without the approval of the board of directors, of our shares or other securities representing 30% or more of our capital stock and restrictions on agreements and other arrangements, without the approval of the board of directors, for the exercise of voting rights in respect of shares representing 30% or more of our capital stock. These provisions may deprive you of a premium over the market price of the ADSs or otherwise adversely affect the market price of the ADSs. 8 Future sales of Series A Shares by the controlling shareholders may affect future market prices of the Series A Shares, CPOs and ADSs Actions by members of the Aguirre family, directly or through the Mexican trust through which they hold most of their Series A Shares, with respect to the disposition of their Series A Shares, may adversely affect the trading price of the Series A Shares or the CPOs on the Mexican Stock Exchange and the price of the ADSs on the NYSE. There are no contractual restrictions on the rights of members of the Aguirre family to sell ADSs, CPOs or Series A Shares, other than those contained in our U.S.$ 21 million credit facility, which requires the Aguirre family to maintain 51% of our capital stock. You may not be able to participate in any future preemptive rights offering and, as a result, your equity interest in the Company may be diluted Under current Mexican law, if we issue new shares for cash as a part of a capital increase, we generally must grant our shareholders the right to purchase a sufficient number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage. Rights to purchase shares in these circumstances are known as preemptive rights. We may not be legally permitted to allow holders of ADSs in the United States to exercise any preemptive rights in any future capital increases unless (i) we file a registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) with respect to that future issuance of shares or (ii) the offering qualifies for an exemption from the registration requirements of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933. At the time of any future capital increase, we will evaluate the costs and potential liabilities associated with filing a registration statement with the SEC, the benefits of preemptive rights to holders of ADSs in the United States and any other factors that we consider important in determining whether to file a registration statement. We cannot assure you that we will file a registration statement with the SEC to allow holders of ADSs in the United States to participate in a preemptive rights offering. Furthermore, under current Mexican law, sales by the Depositary of preemptive rights and distribution of the proceeds from such sales to ADS holders are not possible. As a result, the equity interest of ADS holders would be diluted proportionately. In addition, preemptive rights will not arise under current Mexican law upon the sale of newly issued shares in a public offering or the resale of shares of capital stock previously repurchased by us. Risks Relating to Mexico Economic developments in Mexico may adversely affect our business Our financial condition and results of operations are generally affected by the strength of the Mexican economy, as the demand for advertising, from which we derive revenue constituting the principal source of our earnings, generally declines during periods of economic difficulty. In 2008, Mexico’s gross domestic product, or GDP, grew by 1.3% and inflation was 6.5%. In 2007, Mexico’s GDP grew by 3.3% and inflation was 3.8%. The Mexican economy is experiencing a downturn. In 2009, according to preliminary estimates of the Mexican government, GDP is expected to decrease by 5.8% and inflation is expected to be 4.4%. If the Mexican economy contracts or if inflation and interest rates increase significantly, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer material adverse consequences. 9 Economic conditions in Mexico are heavily influenced by the condition of the U.S. economy due to various factors, including commercial trade pursuant to the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), U.S. investment in Mexico and emigration from Mexico to the United States. Events and conditions affecting the U.S. economy may adversely affect our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. In addition, in the past, economic crises in Asia, Russia, Brazil and other emerging markets have adversely affected the Mexican economy and could do so again. High levels of inflation and high interest rates in Mexico could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations Mexico has experienced high levels of inflation and high domestic interest rates in the past. The annual rate of inflation, as measured by changes in the INPC, was 6.5% for 2008. Inflation for the first quarter of 2009 was 1.03%. If inflation in Mexico does not remain within the government’s projections, we may not be able to raise our broadcast advertising rates to keep pace with inflation. More generally, the adverse effects of high inflation on the Mexican economy may result in lower demand for broadcast advertising. Interest rates on 28-day Mexican treasury bills, or Cetes, averaged 7.7% during 2008. On June 23, 2009, the 28-day Cetes rate was 4.72%. High interest rates in Mexico could adversely affect our financing costs, and to the extent that we incur peso-denominated debt in the future, it could be at high interest rates. Political events in Mexico could affect Mexican economic policy and our operations Mexican political events may significantly affect our operations and the performance of Mexican securities, including our securities. We cannot assure you that the current political situation or any future political developments will not have a broad adverse effect on growth trends in the Mexican broadcasting industry or in the economy generally, or directly and adversely affect us. Depreciation of the peso relative to the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations The value of the peso has been subject to significant fluctuations with respect to the U.S. dollar in the past and may be subject to significant fluctuations in the future. In 2008, the peso depreciated against the U.S. dollar at year-end by 26.6%, and the average value of the peso against the U.S. dollar during 2008 was 2.7% lower than in 2007. In 2007, the peso depreciated against the U.S. dollar at year-end by 1.1%, and average value of the peso against the U.S. dollar during 2007 was 0.3% lower than in 2006. In 2006, the peso depreciated against the U.S. dollar at year-end by 1.6%, and the average value of the peso against the U.S. dollar during 2006 was 0.28% lower than in 2005. No assurance can be given that the peso will not depreciate in value relative to the U.S. dollar in the future. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the peso and the U.S. dollar will affect the U.S. dollar value of an investment in our equity securities and of dividend and other distribution payments on those securities. In 2008, less than 10% of our operating costs was payable in U.S. dollars. Our operating costs payable in U.S. dollars have increased in 2009 due to our new investment in a radio station in Los Angeles, California. Although at December 31, 2008, we had no U.S. dollar-denominated indebtedness, we may incur U.S. dollar-denominated indebtedness in the future. Declines in the value of the peso relative to the U.S. dollar increase our obligations payable in U.S. dollars, increase our operating costs, increase our interest costs in pesos relative to any U.S. dollar-denominated indebtedness, result in foreign exchange losses and could adversely affect our ability to meet our U.S. dollar-denominated obligations. Additionally, since substantially all our revenue is denominated in pesos, increased costs resulting from a decline in the value of the peso relative to the U.S. dollar will not be offset by any exchange-related increase in revenue. In 2008, the decline in the value of the peso relative to the U.S. dollar increased our operating costs related to XHFO-FM, a radio station we operate, by 1.9% (Ps. 0.7 million). 10 Severe devaluation or depreciation of the peso may also result in disruption of the international foreign exchange markets and may limit our ability to transfer, or to convert pesos into, U.S. dollars and other currencies for the purpose of making timely payments of our obligations or operating costs payable in U.S. dollars. Developments in other countries may affect the price of the ADSs As is the case with respect to securities of issuers from other emerging markets, the market value of securities of Mexican companies is, to varying degrees, affected by economic and market conditions in other countries. Although economic conditions in other countries may differ significantly from economic conditions in Mexico, investors’ reactions to developments in other countries may have an adverse effect on the market value of securities of Mexican issuers. In recent years, for example, economic conditions in Mexico have become increasingly correlated to economic conditions in the United States as a result of NAFTA and increased economic activity between the two countries. In the second half of 2008, the prices of Mexican securities decreased substantially as a result of the prolonged decline in the U.S. securities markets. Adverse economic conditions in the United States, the termination of NAFTA or other related events could have a material adverse effect on the Mexican economy. Prices of Mexican securities also dropped substantially as a result of developments in Russia, Asia, Brazil and Argentina in the late 1990s. The Mexican securities markets also have been adversely affected by ongoing developments in the global credit markets. We cannot assure you that events in other emerging market countries, in the United States or elsewhere, will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 11 Item 