ITEM 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities is subject to risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that our management believes affect us are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report, including the pending litigation discussed in this report, which provides a description of our current material litigation claims and assessments. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that our management is not aware of or that they currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our securities, including our common stock, could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Intense competition exists in the gaming industry, and we expect competition to continue to intensify. The gaming industry is highly competitive for both customers and employees, including those at the management level. We compete with numerous casinos and casino hotels of varying quality and size in market areas where our properties are located. We also compete with other non-gaming resorts and vacation areas, and with various other casino and other entertainment businesses, and could compete with any new forms of gaming that may be legalized in the future. The casino entertainment business is characterized by competitors that vary considerably in their size, quality of facilities, number of operations, brand identities, marketing and growth strategies, financial strength and capabilities, level of amenities, management talent and geographic diversity. In most markets, we compete directly with other casino facilities operating in the immediate and surrounding market areas. In some markets, we face competition from nearby markets in addition to direct competition within our market areas. 10 Table of Contents In recent years, with fewer new markets opening for development, competition in existing markets has intensified. We have invested in expanding existing facilities, such as Blue Chip, developing new facilities, such as Echelon, and acquiring established facilities in existing markets, such as our acquisition of Coast Casinos, Inc. in July 2004. In addition, our competitors have also invested in expanding their existing facilities and developing new facilities. This expansion of existing casino entertainment properties, the increase in the number of properties and the aggressive marketing strategies of many of our competitors have increased competition in many markets in which we compete, and this intense competition can be expected to continue. For example, a smaller hotel casino located directly across from Sam’s Town Las Vegas is currently being redeveloped. This enhanced facility is expected to open in the third quarter of 2008 and may have an adverse impact on the results of operations at Sam’s Town Las Vegas. If our competitors operate more successfully than we do, if they are more successful than us in attracting and retaining employees, if their properties are enhanced or expanded, or if additional hotels and casinos are established in and around the locations in which we conduct business, we may lose market share or the ability to attract or retain employees. In particular, the expansion of casino gaming in or near any geographic area from which we attract or expect to attract a significant number of our customers could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also compete with legalized gaming from casinos located on Native American tribal lands. Expansion of Native American gaming in areas located near our properties, or in areas in or near those from which we draw our customers, could have an adverse effect on our operating results. The Pokagon Band of Potawatomi Indians, a federally recognized Native American tribe, commenced operations of the Four Winds Casino in New Buffalo, Michigan (which is located approximately fifteen miles from Blue Chip) in August 2007. Although we have expanded our facility at Blue Chip in an effort to be more competitive in this market, the Four Winds Casino has had and could continue to have an adverse impact on the operations of Blue Chip. Our expansion, development, investment and renovation projects may face significant risks inherent in construction projects or implementing a new marketing strategy, including receipt of necessary government approvals. We regularly evaluate expansion, development, investment and renovation opportunities. On January 4, 2006, we announced our planned Las Vegas Strip development, Echelon, which will be the largest and most expensive development project we have undertaken to date. In addition, we have announced a new hotel expansion project at Blue Chip and that Borgata has recently completed a public space expansion and is constructing a new hotel. We also closed our acquisition of Dania Jai-Alai in March 2007. These projects and any other development projects we may undertake will be subject to the many risks inherent in the expansion or renovation of an existing enterprise or construction of a new enterprise, including unanticipated design, construction, regulatory, environmental and operating problems and lack of demand for our projects. Our current and future projects could also experience: • unanticipated delays and significant cost increases; • shortages of materials; • shortages of skilled labor or work stoppages; • poor performance or non-performance by any of our joint venture partners or other third parties on whom we are relying; • unforeseen construction scheduling, engineering, environmental, permitting, construction or geological problems; and • weather interference, floods, fires or other casualty losses. 11 Table of Contents Our anticipated costs and construction periods for projects are based upon budgets, conceptual design documents and construction schedule estimates prepared by us in consultation with our architects and contractors. Many of these costs are estimated at inception of the project and can change over time as the project is built to completion. For example, we announced that the estimated cost of the wholly-owned portion of Echelon increased from $2.9 billion to $3.3 billion, principally as a result of additional scope, larger guest rooms and suites, and increased estimated construction costs, and that the estimated development costs associated with the properties that will be developed and constructed in connection with our joint venture with Morgans increased from $700 million to $950 million. Additional cost increases may continue to occur as we develop Echelon. The cost of any project may vary significantly from initial budget expectations, and we may have a limited amount of capital resources to fund cost overruns. If we cannot finance cost overruns on a timely basis, the completion of one or more projects may be delayed until adequate funding is available. The completion dates of any of our projects could also differ significantly from expectations for construction-related or other reasons. We cannot assure you that any project will be completed on time, if at all, or within established budgets, or that any project will result in increased earnings to us. Significant delays, cost overruns, or failures of our projects to achieve market acceptance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, our projects may not help us compete with new or increased competition in our markets. Certain permits, licenses and approvals necessary for some of our current or anticipated projects have not yet been obtained. The scope of the approvals required for expansion, development, investment or renovation projects can be extensive and may include gaming approvals, state and local land-use permits and building and zoning permits. Unexpected changes or concessions required by local, state or federal regulatory authorities could involve significant additional costs and delay the scheduled openings of the facilities. We may not obtain the necessary permits, licenses and approvals within the anticipated time frames, or at all. In addition, although we design our projects to minimize disruption of our existing business operations, expansion and renovation projects require, from time to time all or portions of affected existing operations to be closed or disrupted. For example, in November 2006 we closed the Stardust and demolished the property in March 2007 to make way for the development of Echelon. Any significant disruption in operations of a property could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face risks associated with growth and acquisitions. As part of our business strategy, we regularly evaluate opportunities for growth through development of gaming operations in existing or new markets, through acquiring other gaming entertainment facilities or through redeveloping our existing gaming facilities. For example, in February 2007 we completed the Barbary Coast exchange transaction. In addition, in March 2007 we completed the acquisition of Dania Jai-Alai, and have previously announced an expansion project at Blue Chip and our Echelon development project. We may also pursue expansion opportunities, including joint ventures, in jurisdictions where casino gaming is not currently permitted in order to be prepared to develop projects upon approval of casino gaming. The expansion of our operations, whether through acquisitions, development or internal growth, could divert management’s attention and could also cause us to incur substantial costs, including legal, professional and consulting fees. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, acquire, develop or profitably manage additional companies or operations or successfully integrate such companies or operations into our existing operations without substantial costs, delays or other problems. Additionally, there can be no assurance that we will receive gaming or other necessary licenses for our new projects or that gaming will be approved in jurisdictions where it is not currently approved. Ballot measures or other voter-approved initiatives to allow gaming in jurisdictions where gaming, or certain types of gaming (such as slots), was not previously permitted could be challenged, and, if such challenges are successful, these ballot measures or initiatives could be invalidated. For example, in October 2004, a group of plaintiffs brought suit in the Circuit Court in Leon County, Florida, against a group of defendants, including the 12 Table of Contents Florida Secretary of State among others, seeking to permanently enjoin a proposed ballot measure to amend the Florida Constitution to allow Florida voters to approve slot machines at certain pari-mutuel gaming facilities in Miami-Dade and Broward Counties (the “Slot Initiative”). The plaintiffs alleged that petition gatherers committed fraud in obtaining signatures to get the Slot Initiative placed on the ballot. Prior to the issuance of a final order by the Circuit Court, the Slot Initiative was approved by voters in November 2004. In January 2005, the Circuit Court granted summary judgment in favor of the defendants, citing among other reasons, that the Slot Initiative had been approved by voters. The plaintiffs appealed this decision, and on August 8, 2006, a three-judge panel of the First District Court of Appeals in Broward County, Florida, reversed the Circuit Court decision and ordered that the case be brought to trial. In its decision, the panel indicated that in the event that the trial court determines that the petition did not have sufficient signatures to place the Slot Initiative on the ballot due to fraud, the trial court should invalidate the Slot Initiative. On August 23, 2006, the defendants filed a motion seeking a rehearing by the three-judge panel, or alternatively, to have the First District Court of Appeals rehear the case en banc or to have the case certified to the Florida Supreme Court for rehearing. On November 30, 2006, the First District Court of Appeals, in an en banc decision, essentially reaffirmed the panel’s decision, but certified two questions to the Florida Supreme Court: (1) whether validations of signatures by supervisors of elections can be challenged based upon allegations of fraud after certifications of signatures have been accepted by the Secretary of State and the ballot printed and absentee voting commenced in accord with Florida law, and (2) whether an amendment to the Florida Constitution that is approved by vote of the electors may be subsequently invalidated if, in an action filed before the election, there is a showing made after the election that necessary signatures on the petition proposing the amendment were fraudulently obtained. On March 27, 2007, the Florida Supreme Court accepted jurisdiction to hear the certified questions, but subsequently reconsidered that decision, declined jurisdiction over the matter and remanded it to the circuit court for a trial on the merits. If the Slot Initiative is invalidated, we would not be permitted to operate slot machines at the Dania Jai-Alai facility, which would materially affect any potential revenue and cash flow expected from the Dania Jai-Alai facility. In February 2008, our management determined to postpone redevelopment of the Dania Jai-Alai facility. If we are unable to finance our expansion, development, investment and renovation projects as well as other capital expenditures through cash flow, borrowings under our bank credit facility and additional financings, our expansion, development, investment and renovation efforts will be jeopardized. We intend to finance our current and future expansion, development, investment and renovation projects, as well as our other capital expenditures, primarily with cash flow from operations, borrowings under our bank credit facility and equity or debt financings. If we are unable to finance our current or future expansion, development, investment and renovation projects, or our other capital expenditures, we will have to adopt one or more alternatives, such as reducing, delaying or abandoning planned expansion, development, investment and renovation projects as well as other capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring debt, reducing the amount or discontinuing the distribution of dividends, obtaining additional equity financing or joint venture partners, or modifying our bank credit facility. These sources of funds may not be sufficient to finance our expansion, development, investment and renovation projects, and other financing may not be available on acceptable terms, in a timely manner or at all. In addition, our existing indebtedness contains certain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness. If we are unable to secure additional financing, we could be forced to limit or suspend expansion, development, investment and renovation projects and other capital expenditures, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, there have recently been significant disruptions in the global capital markets that have adversely impacted the ability of borrowers to access capital. We anticipate that these disruptions may continue for the foreseeable future. We anticipate that we will be able to fund our currently planned expansion projects, including our Blue Chip expansion project, our wholly-owned portion of the Echelon project, and our share of our equity contributions to the High Street retail promenade joint venture at Echelon, using cash flows from operations and availability under our bank credit facility (to the extent availability exists after we meet our working capital needs). If availability under our bank credit facility does not exist, any additional financing that is needed may not be available to us, or, if available, may not be on terms favorable to us. As a result, if we are 13 Table of Contents unable to obtain adequate project financing in a timely manner or at all, we may be forced to sell assets in order to raise capital for the project, limit the scope of the project, defer the project or cancel the project altogether. With respect to our joint venture with Morgans to develop, construct and operate the Delano Las Vegas and the Mondrian Las Vegas hotels at Echelon, given the current state of the credit markets, we anticipate that additional equity and/or credit support will be necessary to obtain construction financing for the remaining cost of the project. This additional equity and/or credit support may be contributed by us or Morgans, or from both parties, and/or from one or more additional equity sponsors. If the joint venture obtains equity financing from additional sponsors, then our percentage interest in the project and resulting cash flows will be diluted. If the joint venture is unable to obtain adequate project financing in a timely manner or at all, we may be forced to sell assets in order to raise capital for the project, limit the scope of the project, defer the project or cancel the project altogether. Should we postpone or cancel this project, we expect to continue the construction of the remaining aspects of our Echelon development project; however, our expected returns from the Echelon development project would be adversely impacted due to the change in the scope of the overall project. If we are not ultimately successful in dismissing the action filed against our Treasure Chest Casino property, we may potentially lose our ability to operate the Treasure Chest Casino property and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Alvin C. Copeland, the sole shareholder of an unsuccessful applicant for a riverboat license at the location of our Treasure Chest Casino, has made several attempts to have the Treasure Chest license revoked and awarded to his company. In 1999 and 2000, Copeland unsuccessfully opposed the renewal of the Treasure Chest license and has brought two separate legal actions against us. In November 1993, Copeland objected to the relocation of Treasure Chest from the Mississippi River to its current site on Lake Pontchartrain. The predecessor to the Louisiana Gaming Control Board allowed the relocation over Copeland’s objection. Copeland then filed an appeal of the agency’s decision with the Nineteenth Judicial District Court. Through a number of amendments to the appeal, Copeland improperly attempted to transform the appeal into a direct action suit and sought the revocation of the Treasure Chest license. Treasure Chest intervened in the matter in order to protect its interests. The appeal/suit, as it related to Treasure Chest, was dismissed by the District Court and that dismissal was upheld on appeal by the First Circuit Court of Appeal. Additionally, in 1999, Copeland filed a direct action against Treasure Chest and certain other parties seeking the revocation of Treasure Chest’s license, an award of the license to him and monetary damages. The suit was dismissed by the trial court citing that Copeland failed to state a claim on which relief could be granted. The dismissal was appealed by Copeland to the First Circuit Court of Appeal. On June 21, 2002, the First Circuit Court of Appeal reversed the trial court’s decision and remanded the matter to the trial court. On January 14, 2003, we filed a motion to dismiss the matter and that motion was partially denied. The Court of Appeal refused to reverse the denial of the motion to dismiss. In May 2004, we filed additional motions to dismiss on other grounds. There was no activity regarding this matter during 2005 and 2006, and the case was set to be dismissed by the court for failure to prosecute by the plaintiffs in mid-May 2007; however on May 1, 2007, the plaintiff filed a motion to set a hearing date related to the motions to dismiss. The hearing was scheduled for September 10, 2007, at which time all parties agreed to postpone the hearing indefinitely. We currently are vigorously defending the lawsuit. If this matter ultimately results in the Treasure Chest license being revoked, it could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive governmental gaming regulation and taxation policies, which may harm our business. We are subject to a variety of regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Regulatory authorities at the federal, state and local levels have broad powers with respect to the licensing of casino operations and may revoke, suspend, condition or limit our gaming or other licenses, impose substantial fines and take other actions, any one of which could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A more detailed description of the governmental gaming regulations to which we are subject is included in Exhibit 99.1, Governmental Gaming Regulations filed with this Annual Report on Form 10-K and incorporated herein by reference. 14 Table of Contents If additional gaming regulations are adopted in a jurisdiction in which we operate, such regulations could impose restrictions or costs that could have a significant adverse effect on us. From time to time, various proposals are introduced in the legislatures of some of the jurisdictions in which we have existing or planned operations that, if enacted, could adversely affect the tax, regulatory, operational or other aspects of the gaming industry and our company. Legislation of this type may be enacted in the future. For example, on January 15, 2006, the New Jersey State Legislature enacted the Smoke-Free Air Act that became effective April 15, 2006. This law called for smoke-free environments in essentially all indoor workplaces and places open to the public, including places of business and service-related activities. The law contains several exemptions, including an exemption for all casino floor space and 20% of a hotel’s designated hotel rooms. On February 15, 2007, Atlantic City promulgated a local ordinance that is more restrictive than the aforementioned state law. Specifically, this ordinance reduced the casino floor exemption to 25% of a casino’s floor space. As such, smoking is prohibited on 75% of a casino’s floor space and permitted on 25% of a casino’s floor space, subject to the following conditions: • Commencing on April 15, 2007, casinos were required to limit smoking to 25% of their casino floor space, which areas initially were not required to be enclosed and separately ventilated. • Ultimately, the 25% of the casino floor in which smoking will be permissible will be required to be enclosed and separately ventilated. Casinos had until September 15, 2007 to submit construction plans for such enclosures to applicable authorities for the issuance of building permits and related required approvals. Once permits are issued, the casinos will have 90 days to commence construction of the enclosures. Borgata submitted its construction plans to the applicable authorities and is waiting on the required approvals. Under the Atlantic City ordinance, smoking will remain permissible in 20% of a hotel’s designated hotel rooms, consistent with state law. This legislation, and the local ordinance, could materially impact Borgata’s operations and comparable legislation in other jurisdictions in which we operate could materially impact our other properties. In addition, the State of Illinois enacted a 100% smoking ban in all casinos effective January 1, 2008. The federal government has also previously considered a federal tax on casino revenues and may consider such a tax in the future. In addition, gaming companies are currently subject to significant state and local taxes and fees in addition to normal federal and state corporate income taxes, and such taxes and fees are subject to increase at any time. For example, in November 2007, Nevada’s largest teachers union, the Nevada State Educational Association, submitted a petition to the Nevada Secretary of State’s Office seeking to increase the gross gaming revenue tax from 6.75% to 9.75%. If this petition is successful, it could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. In June 2006, the Illinois legislature passed certain amendments to the Riverboat Gambling Act, which affected the tax rate at Par-A-Dice. The legislation, which imposes an incremental 5% tax on adjusted gross gaming revenues, was retroactive to July 1, 2005. As a result of this legislation, we were required to pay additional taxes, resulting in a $6.7 million tax assessment in June 2006. If there is any material increase in state and local taxes and fees, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Also, in May 2007, Blue Chip received a valuation notice indicating an unanticipated increase of nearly 400% to its assessed property value as of January 1, 2006. At that time, we estimated that the increase in assessed property value could result in a property tax assessment ranging between $4 million and $11 million for the eighteen-month period ended June 30, 2007. We recorded an additional charge of $3.2 million during the three months ended June 30, 2007 to increase our property tax liability to $5.8 million at June 30, 2007 as we believed that was the most likely amount to be assessed within the range. We subsequently received a property tax bill related to our 2006 tax assessment for $6.2 million in December 2007. As we have appealed the assessment, Indiana statutes allow for a minimum required payment of $1.9 million, which was paid against the $6.2 million assessment in January 2008. We believe the assessment for the twenty four-month period ended December 31, 2007 could result in a property tax assessment ranging between $4 million and $13 million. We have accrued approximately $7.5 million of property tax liability as of December 31, 2007, based on what we believe to be the most likely assessment within our range, once all appeals have been exhausted; however, we can 15 Table of Contents provide no assurances that the estimated amount will approximate the actual amount. The final 2006 assessment, post appeals, as well as the March 1, 2007 assessment notice which is not expected until the second quarter of 2008, could result in further adjustment to our estimated property tax liability at Blue Chip. Our directors, officers and other key employees must also be approved by certain state regulatory authorities. If state regulatory authorities were to find a person occupying any such position unsuitable, we would be required to sever our relationship with that person. Certain public and private issuances of securities and other transactions by us also require the approval of some state regulatory authorities. In addition to gaming regulations, we are also subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting businesses in general. These laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, restrictions and conditions concerning alcoholic beverages, environmental matters, employees, currency transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes, and marketing and advertising. Such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. For example, on July 5, 2006, New Jersey gaming properties, including Borgata, were required to temporarily close their casinos for three days as a result of a New Jersey statewide government shutdown that affected certain New Jersey state employees required to be at casinos when they are open for business. In addition, Nevada recently enacted legislation that eliminated in most instances, and, for certain pre-existing development projects such as Echelon, otherwise reduced, property tax breaks and retroactively eliminated certain sales tax exemptions offered as incentives to companies developing projects that meet certain environmental “green” standards. As a result, we, along with other companies developing projects that meet such standards, may not realize the full tax benefits that were originally anticipated. We own facilities that are located in areas that experience extreme weather conditions. We own facilities that are located in areas that experience extreme weather conditions, including, but not limited to, hurricanes. Extreme weather conditions may interrupt our operations, damage our properties and reduce the number of customers who visit our facilities in the affected areas. For example, our Treasure Chest Casino, which is located near New Orleans, Louisiana, suffered minor damage and was closed for 44 days in 2005 as a result of Hurricane Katrina. Additionally, our Delta Downs Racetrack Casino & Hotel, which is located in southwest Louisiana, suffered significant property damage and closed for 42 days in 2005 as a result of Hurricane Rita. While we maintain insurance that may cover some of the costs we incur as a result of some extreme weather conditions, our coverage is subject to deductibles and limits on maximum benefits. There can be no assurance that we will be able to fully collect, if at all, on any claims resulting from extreme weather conditions. If any of our properties are damaged or if their operations are disrupted as a result of extreme weather in the future, or if extreme weather adversely impacts general economic or other conditions in the areas in which our properties are located or from which they draw their patrons, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Our facilities, including our riverboats and dockside facilities, are subject to risks relating to mechanical failure and regulatory compliance. Generally, all of our facilities are subject to the risk that operations could be halted for a temporary or extended period of time, as the result of casualty, forces of nature, mechanical failure, or extended or extraordinary maintenance, among other causes. In addition, our gaming operations, including those conducted on riverboats or at dockside facilities could be damaged or halted due to extreme weather conditions. We currently conduct our Treasure Chest, Par-A-Dice, Blue Chip and Sam’s Town Shreveport gaming operations on riverboats. Each of our riverboats must comply with U.S. Coast Guard requirements as to boat design, on-board facilities, equipment, personnel and safety. Each riverboat must hold a Certificate of Inspection for stabilization and flotation, and may also be subject to local zoning codes. The U.S. Coast Guard requirements establish design standards, set limits on the operation of the vessels and require individual licensing of all 16 Table of Contents personnel involved with the operation of the vessels. Loss of a vessel’s Certificate of Inspection or American Bureau of Shipping approval would preclude its use as a casino. U.S. Coast Guard regulations require a hull inspection for all riverboats at five-year intervals. Under certain circumstances, alternative hull inspections may be approved. The U.S. Coast Guard may require that such hull inspections be conducted at a dry-docking facility, and if so required, the cost of travel to and from such docking facility, as well as the time required for inspections of the affected riverboats, could be significant. To date, the U.S. Coast Guard has allowed in-place inspections of our riverboats. The U.S. Coast Guard might not allow these types of inspections in the future. The loss of a dockside casino or riverboat casino from service for any period of time could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. U.S. Coast Guard regulations also require us to prepare and follow certain security programs. In 2004, we implemented the American Gaming Association’s Alternative Security Program at our riverboat casinos and dockside facilities. The American Gaming Association’s Alternative Security Program is specifically designed to address maritime security requirements at riverboat casinos and their respective dockside facilities. Changes to these regulations could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We draw a significant percentage of our customers from limited geographic regions. Events adversely impacting the economy or these regions, including man-made or natural disasters, may also impact our business. Our California Hotel and Casino, Fremont Hotel and Casino and Main Street Station Casino, Brewery and Hotel draw a substantial portion of their customers from the Hawaiian market. For the year ended December 31, 2007, patrons from Hawaii comprised approximately 67% of the room nights sold at the California, 54% at the Fremont and 55% at Main Street Station. An increase in fuel costs or transportation prices, a decrease in airplane seat availability, or a deterioration of relations with tour and travel agents, particularly as they affect travel between the Hawaiian market and our facilities, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Las Vegas properties also draw a substantial number of customers from certain other specific geographic areas, including Southern California, Arizona and Las Vegas. Native American casinos in California and other parts of the United States have diverted some potential visitors away from Nevada, which has had and could continue to have a negative effect on Nevada gaming markets. In addition, due to our significant concentration of properties in Nevada, any man-made or natural disasters in or around Nevada, or the areas from which we draw customers for our Las Vegas properties, could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Each of our properties located outside of Nevada depends primarily on visitors from their respective surrounding regions and are subject to comparable risk. The outbreak of public health threats at any of our properties or in the areas in which they are located, or the perception that such threats exist, as well as adverse economic conditions that affect the national or regional economies, whether resulting from war, terrorist activities or other geopolitical conflict, weather, general or localized economic downturns or related events or other factors, could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, to the extent that the airline industry is negatively impacted due to the outbreak of war, public health threats, terrorist or similar activity, increased security restrictions or the public’s general reluctance to travel by air, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be significantly adversely affected. Energy price increases may adversely affect our cost of operations and our revenues. Our casino properties use significant amounts of electricity, natural gas and other forms of energy. In addition, our Hawaiian air charter operation uses a significant amount of jet fuel. While no shortages of energy or fuel have been experienced to date, substantial increases in energy and fuel prices, including jet fuel prices, in the 17 Table of Contents United States have negatively affected and may continue to negatively affect our operating results. The extent of the impact is subject to the magnitude and duration of the energy and fuel price increases, which impact could be material. In addition, energy and gasoline price increases in areas that constitute a significant source of customers for our properties could result in a decline in disposable income of potential customers, an increase in the cost of travel and a corresponding decrease in visitation and spending at our properties, which could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain of our stockholders own large interests in our capital stock and may significantly influence our affairs. William S. Boyd, our Executive Chairman, together with his immediate family, beneficially owned approximately 36% of our outstanding shares of common stock as of December 31, 2007. As a result, the Boyd family has the ability to significantly influence our affairs, including the electing of our directors and, except as otherwise provided by law, approving or disapproving other matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including a merger, consolidation or sale of assets. Some of our hotel casinos are located on leased property. If we default on one or more leases, the applicable lessors could terminate the affected leases and we could lose possession of the affected hotel casino. We lease certain parcels of land on which The Orleans, Suncoast, Sam’s Town Tunica, Treasure Chest and Sam’s Town Shreveport are located. In addition, we lease other parcels of land on which portions of the California and the Fremont are located. If we were to default on any one or more of these leases, the applicable lessors could terminate the affected leases and we could lose possession of the affected land and any improvements on the land, including the hotel casinos. This would have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations as we would then be unable to operate all or portions of the affected facilities. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. We had total consolidated long-term debt, net of current maturities, of approximately $2.3 billion at December 31, 2007. We expect that our long-term indebtedness will substantially increase in connection with the capital expenditures we anticipate making as a result of our planned expansion, development, investment and renovation projects. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our current indebtedness; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, expansion efforts and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds. Failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could have a significant adverse effect on us. The interest rates on a portion of our long-term debt are subject to fluctuation based upon changes in short-term interest rates and, as a result, our interest expense could increase. 18 Table of Contents Our current debt service requirements on our bank credit facility primarily consist of interest payments on outstanding indebtedness. The bank credit facility consists of a $4.0 billion revolving credit facility that matures in May 2012. Subject to certain limitations, we may at any time, without the consent of the lenders under our bank credit facility, request incremental commitments to increase the size of the revolving credit facility, or request new commitments to add a term loan facility, by up to an aggregate amount of $1.0 billion. Debt service requirements under our current outstanding senior subordinated notes consist of semi-annual interest payments (based upon fixed annual interest rates ranging from 6.75% to 7.75%) and repayment of the $300 million, $350 million and $250 million of principal on December 15, 2012, April 15, 2014, and February 1, 2016, respectively. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, and to fund planned capital expenditures and expansion efforts will depend upon our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. It is unlikely that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our bank credit facility, in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness as it matures and to fund our other liquidity needs. We believe that we will need to refinance all or part of our indebtedness at or prior to each maturity; however, we may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We may have to adopt one or more alternatives, such as reducing or delaying planned expenses and capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring debt, or obtaining additional equity or debt financing or joint venture partners. These financing strategies may not be affected on satisfactory terms, if at all. In addition, certain states’ laws contain restrictions on the ability of companies engaged in the gaming business to undertake certain financing transactions. Some restrictions may prevent us from obtaining necessary capital. Our common stock price may fluctuate substantially, and your investment could decline in value. The market price of our common stock may be volatile and could fluctuate substantially due to many factors, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations; • announcements of significant acquisitions or other agreements by us or by our competitors; • our sale of common stock or other securities in the future; • the trading volume of our common stock; • conditions and trends in the gaming and destination entertainment industries; • changes in the estimation of the future size and growth of our markets; and • general economic conditions, including, among other things, changes in the cost of fuel and air travel. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to companies’ operating performance. Broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, shareholder derivative lawsuits securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 19 Table of Contents 