RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Operations We may be unsuccessful in addressing the challenges and risks presented by our investment in the United States In April 2009, we began to provide programming to, and sell advertising time on, KXOS-FM, a radio station broadcasting in Los Angeles, California that is owned by Emmis Communications Corporation. Our investment in the United States involves risks to which we have not previously been exposed and presents different or greater risks, including from competition and regulation, than those present in Mexico. Our potential for success should be considered in light of the expenses, complications and delays frequently encountered in connection with a new business. In 2011, our U.S. operations generated a net loss for the year of Ps. 101.4 million. We cannot predict whether or when our operations in the United States will become profitable. In light of losses in our operations in the United States, we may not have sufficient sources of cash to meet our working capital needs Although cash flow from operations historically has been sufficient to cover our working capital needs, our investment in April 2009 in a Los Angeles radio station has resulted in increased working capital needs. There can be no assurances that we will be able to meet our working capital needs, or, if we are in non-compliance with our debt covenants, that we will be able to borrow further amounts under the credit facility. Such events would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Increased competition or a decline in popularity of any of our radio formats could reduce our audience share and result in a loss of revenue Radio broadcasting is highly competitive, and programming popularity, an important factor in advertising sales, is readily susceptible to change. There can be no assurance that increased competition within, or a decline in the popularity of, a given format will not decrease our aggregate audience share in the future. In addition, we face strong competition for advertising revenues from both television and various print media. If we are unable to respond to an increase in competition or a decline in the popularity of any of our radio formats, our revenue and profitability could suffer material adverse consequences. In the past, we have not complied with a financial covenant under our credit facility, and we may be incurring substantial additional indebtedness in the future in connection with the acquisition of the KXOS-FM station assets We have entered into a credit facility for a secured peso-denominated loan having an outstanding aggregate principal amount of Ps. 80 million as of the date hereof. This amount is guaranteed by several of our subsidiaries and secured by a first priority lien on substantially all of our property, including our corporate headquarters but excluding any equipment used for broadcasting. The credit facility contains covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios and comply with other financial conditions that, among other things, limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness, pledge assets and enter into transactions with affiliates. We were not in compliance with the fixed charges coverage ratio for the first and second quarters of 2010 and obtained waivers from the lender of this non-compliance for each quarter. Since then, we have been in compliance with our financial covenants. If we fail to comply with any covenant under the credit facility in the future, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain waivers or that the lender will not accelerate amounts due under the credit facility. If we are unable to repay amounts due under the credit facility, the lender could proceed against the collateral securing our indebtedness. Such events would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in the event the acquisition of the KXOS-FM station assets described under “—Material Contracts” below is consummated, we anticipate that we would be required to guarantee the debt financing utilized to acquire these assets. This debt financing would be in an aggregate principal amount of approximately U.S.$85.5 million and would substantially increase our liabilities. To service this debt, we would rely primarily on cash flows provided by operations. If our cash flows from operations decline in the future, we may have difficult servicing this debt, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 4 If we lose one or more of our key customers in Mexico, we could lose a significant amount of our revenue Our two largest individual customers in 2011 were Walmart de México, S.A.B. de C.V. (“Walmart”) and Organización Soriana, S.A.B. de C.V. (“Soriana”). In 2010, our two largest customers were Walmart and Soriana. In 2011, Walmart represented 9.1% and Soriana represented 4.1% of our consolidated broadcasting revenue, excluding revenue from our operations in the United States. In 2010, Walmart represented 10.4% and Soriana represented 3.4% of our consolidated broadcasting revenue, excluding revenue from our operations in the United States. The companies comprising Grupo Carso are also key customers, representing 5.5% of our total broadcasting revenue in 2011 and 5.2% in 2010, excluding revenue from our operations in the United States. We cannot assure you our key customers will continue to purchase advertising from us at current levels or at all. The loss of our relationship with any one of our principal customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The seasonal nature of our business affects our revenue Our business is seasonal. Our revenue from advertising sales, which we recognize when the advertising is aired, is generally highest in the fourth quarter because of the high level of advertising during the holiday season. Accordingly, our results of operations depend disproportionately on revenue recognized in the fourth quarter, and a low level of fourth quarter advertising revenue could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the year. The Mexican Federal Competition Commission may prohibit us from making additional investments in radio operations in Mexico We, like all Mexican radio licensees, are subject to regulation by several Mexican governmental agencies. As a result of such regulation, radio licenses are subject to review and possible revocation, and licensees are prohibited from transferring or assigning their radio broadcasting licenses without prior governmental approval of both the transfer and its terms. As a result of the increase in our share of the Mexico City radio market following the acquisition of Radiodifusión RED, S.A. in 1996, we are required by the Mexican Comisión Federal de Competencia (Federal Competition Commission) to seek its prior approval in connection with any future investments in radio operations in Mexico, including, without limitation, purchases and leases of radio stations, interests in other radio concerns or transmission sites, irrespective of the size of such investments or their related audience share. To the best of our knowledge, other Mexican radio broadcasting companies are not generally subject to this requirement. No assurance can be given that we will be permitted by the Federal Competition Commission to make any particular investment should we desire to do so. If the Mexican government does not renew our broadcasting licenses, our business could be harmed To broadcast commercial radio in Mexico, a broadcaster must have a license from the Secretaría de Comunicaciones y Transportes (Secretary of Communication and Transportation, or “SCT”). Because the SCT generally grants renewals to licensees that have substantially complied with applicable law, we expect that our future renewal applications will be granted. However, if we were unable to renew these licenses in the future, our business could be significantly harmed. Adverse global economic conditions and, in particular, the slowdown of the U.S. and Mexican economies, may affect our client base and could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations Our business is influenced by general economic conditions worldwide and in Mexico. The risks associated with our business become more acute in periods of a slowing economy or recession, which may be accompanied by a decrease in advertising. A decline in the level of business activity of our advertisers could have an adverse effect on our revenue and profit margins. In response to negative market conditions, customers may choose to make fewer advertising expenditures, to slow their spending on or cancel our services or to seek contract terms more favorable to them. Adverse economic conditions may also lead to an increase in the number of our customers that are unable to pay for services. If these events were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 5 If we are required by the Mexican courts to pay a pending arbitration award, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition We are party to legal proceedings in Mexico relating to an arbitration award granted in 2004 against us in favor of Infored, S.A. de C.V. and Mr. José Gutiérrez Vivó. If we are ultimately unsuccessful in challenging the enforcement of the arbitration award, we will be required to finance all or part of the amount due. Our ability to obtain financing is subject to various factors, including general market conditions, our financial condition and results of operations and the fact that we have pledged substantially all of our assets under outstanding indebtedness. Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain financing in a timely manner, or on acceptable terms, or at all. If we incur additional indebtedness or we are unable to obtain financing when needed, our financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Principal Shareholders and Capital Structure Holders of ADSs are not entitled to attend shareholders meetings and have no voting rights Holders of the CPOs, and therefore holders of the ADSs, have no voting rights with respect to the underlying Series A Shares. Pursuant to the trust agreement under which the CPOs are issued, the trustee for the CPOs will vote the Series A Shares held in the trust in the same manner as the majority of the Series A Shares that are not held in the trust and that are voted at the relevant shareholders meeting. Holders of the CPOs are not entitled to attend or to address our shareholders meetings. Certain members of the Aguirre family effectively control our management and the decisions of the shareholders, and their interests may differ from those of other shareholders Certain members of the Aguirre family have the power to elect a majority of our directors and control our management because they own a substantial majority of the outstanding Series A Shares not held in the form of CPOs. These Aguirre family members have established a Mexican trust, which they control, that holds 51.6%, of the outstanding Series A Shares as of April 16, 2012. Our bylaws include provisions that could delay or prevent a takeover and, thus, deprive you of a premium over the market price of the ADSs or otherwise adversely affect the market price of the ADSs Our bylaws include certain provisions that could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our shareholders. These provisions include restrictions on the acquisition, without the approval of the board of directors, of our shares or other securities representing 30% or more of our capital stock and restrictions on agreements and other arrangements, without the approval of the board of directors, for the exercise of voting rights in respect of shares representing 30% or more of our capital stock. These provisions may deprive you of a premium over the market price of the ADSs or otherwise adversely affect the market price of the ADSs. Future sales of Series A Shares by the controlling shareholders may affect future market prices of the Series A Shares, CPOs and ADSs Actions by members of the Aguirre family, directly or through the Mexican trust through which they hold most of their Series A Shares, with respect to the disposition of their Series A Shares, may adversely affect the trading price of the Series A Shares or the CPOs on the Mexican Stock Exchange and the price of the ADSs on the NYSE. There are no contractual restrictions on the rights of members of the Aguirre family to sell ADSs, CPOs or Series A Shares, other than those contained in our loan with Inbursa, S.A. Institución de Banca Múltiple, Grupo Financiero Inbursa, which requires the Aguirre family to maintain 51% of our capital stock. You may not be able to participate in any future preemptive rights offering and, as a result, your equity interest in the Company may be diluted Under current Mexican law, if we issue new shares for cash as a part of a capital increase, we generally must grant our shareholders the right to purchase a sufficient number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage. Rights to purchase shares in these circumstances are known as preemptive rights. We may not be legally permitted to allow holders of ADSs in the United States to exercise any preemptive rights in any future capital increases unless (i) we file a registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) with respect to that future issuance of shares or (ii) the offering qualifies for an exemption from the registration requirements of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933. At the time of any future capital increase, we will evaluate the costs and potential liabilities associated with filing a registration statement with the SEC, the benefits of preemptive rights to holders of ADSs in the United States and any other factors that we consider important in determining whether to file a registration statement. 6 We cannot assure you that we will file a registration statement with the SEC to allow holders of ADSs in the United States to participate in a preemptive rights offering. Furthermore, under current Mexican law, sales by the Depositary of preemptive rights and distribution of the proceeds from such sales to ADS holders are not possible. As a result, the equity interest of ADS holders would be diluted proportionately. In addition, preemptive rights will not arise under current Mexican law upon the sale of newly issued shares in a public offering or the resale of shares of capital stock previously repurchased by us. Risks Relating to Mexico Economic developments in Mexico may adversely affect our business Our financial condition and results of operations are generally affected by the strength of the Mexican economy, as the demand for advertising, from which we derive revenue constituting the principal source of our earnings, generally declines during periods of economic difficulty. In 2011, Mexico’s gross domestic product, or GDP, grew by 3.9% and inflation was 3.82%. In 2010, Mexico’s GDP grew by 5.4% and inflation was 4.4%. In 2012, according to preliminary estimates of the Mexican government, GDP is expected to increase by 3.23% and inflation is expected to be 3.53%. If the Mexican economy contracts or if inflation and interest rates increase significantly, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer material adverse consequences. Economic conditions in Mexico are heavily influenced by the condition of the U.S. economy due to various factors, including commercial trade with the U.S., U.S. investment in Mexico and emigration from Mexico to the United States. Events and conditions affecting the U.S. economy may adversely affect our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. In addition, in the past, economic crises in Asia, Russia, Brazil and other emerging markets have adversely affected the Mexican economy and could do so again. High levels of inflation and high interest rates in Mexico could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations Mexico has experienced high levels of inflation and high domestic interest rates in the past. The annual rate of inflation, as measured by changes in the INPC, was 3.82% for 2011. If inflation in Mexico does not remain within the government’s projections, we may not be able to raise our broadcast advertising rates to keep pace with inflation. More generally, the adverse effects of high inflation on the Mexican economy may result in lower demand for broadcast advertising. Interest rates on 28-day Mexican treasury bills, or Cetes, averaged 4.25% during 2011. During the first quarter of 2012, the average 28-day Cetes rate was 4.27%. High interest rates in Mexico could adversely affect our financing costs, and to the extent that we incur peso-denominated debt in the future, it could be at high interest rates. Political events in Mexico could affect Mexican economic policy and our operations Mexican political events may significantly affect our operations and the performance of Mexican securities, including our securities. We cannot assure you that the current political situation or any future political developments, including the presidential and federal congressional elections in Mexico, which will be held in July 2012, will not have a broad adverse effect on growth trends in the Mexican broadcasting industry or in the economy generally, or directly and adversely affect us. 7 Depreciation of the peso relative to the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations The value of the peso has been subject to significant fluctuations with respect to the U.S. dollar in the past and may be subject to significant fluctuations in the future. In 2011, the peso depreciated against the U.S. dollar at year-end by 12.7%, although the average value of the peso against the U.S. dollar during 2011 was 1.6% lower than in 2010. In 2010, the peso appreciated against the U.S. dollar at year-end by 5.2%, while the average value of the peso against the U.S. dollar during 2010 was 3.2% higher than in 2009. In 2009, the peso appreciated against the U.S. dollar at year-end by 5.6%, and the average value of the peso against the U.S. dollar during 2009 was 21.1% lower than in 2008. No assurance can be given that the peso will not depreciate in value relative to the U.S. dollar in the future. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the peso and the U.S. dollar will affect the U.S. dollar value of an investment in our equity securities and of dividend and other distribution payments on those securities. In 2011, our operating costs payable in U.S. dollars increased due to our investment in a radio station in Los Angeles, California. These expenses represented 23.5% of our consolidated broadcasting expenses in 2011. We prepaid the first two years of fees (U.S.$ 14 million) under the related local marketing agreement and, beginning in April 2011, we have been making monthly fee payments of U.S.$583,333. Although at December 31, 2011, we had no U.S. dollar-denominated indebtedness, we may incur U.S. dollar-denominated indebtedness in the future, particularly in connection with the acquisition of the KXOS-FM station assets. Declines in the value of the peso relative to the U.S. dollar increase our operating costs, increase our interest costs in pesos relative to any U.S. dollar-denominated indebtedness, increase our obligations payable in U.S. dollars, result in foreign exchange losses and could adversely affect our ability to meet our U.S. dollar-denominated obligations. Additionally, since substantially all our revenue is denominated in pesos, increased costs resulting from a decline in the value of the peso relative to the U.S. dollar will not be offset by any exchange-related increase in revenue. Since we fund our operations in the United States with peso-denominated revenue earned in Mexico, the decline of the peso relative to the U.S. dollar could increase our operating costs. Severe devaluation or depreciation of the peso may also result in disruption of the international foreign exchange markets and may limit our ability to transfer, or to convert pesos into, U.S. dollars and other currencies for the purpose of making timely payments of our operating costs or obligations payable in U.S. dollars. Developments in other countries may affect the price of the ADSs As is the case with respect to securities of issuers from other emerging markets, the market value of securities of Mexican companies is, to varying degrees, affected by economic and market conditions in other countries. Although economic conditions in other countries may differ significantly from economic conditions in Mexico, investors’ reactions to developments in other countries may have an adverse effect on the market value of securities of Mexican issuers. In recent years, for example, economic conditions in Mexico have become increasingly correlated to economic conditions in the United States as a result of NAFTA and increased economic activity between the two countries. Adverse economic conditions in the United States and other related events could have a material adverse effect on the Mexican economy. Prices of Mexican securities also dropped substantially as a result of developments in Russia, Asia, Brazil and Argentina in the late 1990s. The Mexican securities markets also have been adversely affected by ongoing developments in the global credit markets. We cannot assure you that events in other emerging market countries, in the United States or elsewhere, will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 