Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our common stock. Although the risks described below are all of the risks that we believe are material, they are not the only risks relating to our business and our common stock. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks and, therefore, you may lose all or part of your investment. Risk Factors Relating to Our Operations We rely on a few key customers for the majority of our revenue. We historically have been dependent on one or more key customers. A significant portion of our sales over the last three years has been to NY&C. Sales to NY&C accounted for approximately 4%, 32% and 82%, respectively, of our net sales for the years 2006, 2005 and 2004. For the year 2005 our sales to JC Penney and Kohl’s, our other major customers for that year, accounted for approximately 21%, and 18%, respectively. For the year 2006, our sales to JC Penney, Kohl’s, Target and AEO 16%, 14%, 15% and 27%, respectively, of our net sales Historically, our highest shipments are in our second quarter and third quarter, with lower sales in the fourth and first quarter. 10 Table of Contents Although we have long-established relationships with our major customers, we do not have long-term contracts with these customers. Our future success will be dependent upon our ability to attract new customers and to maintain our relationships with our present customers. We continue to strive to maintain our positive working relationships with our customers by providing on-time deliveries of quality products at competitive prices. We cannot assure you that our major customers will continue to purchase merchandise from us at the same rate as they have historically purchased from us, or at all in the future, or that we will be able to attract new customers. In addition, our major customers have the ability to exert significant control over our business decisions, including prices. Since the United States discontinued textile import quotas affecting products sourced by us on January 1, 2005, the amount of business we do for NY&C has decreased significantly, as NY&C has opted to place orders in China and other countries in the Far East. We are subject to the risks of doing business abroad. During years 2005 and 2006, all of our products were manufactured outside the United States, at either a related party manufacturer located in Mexico, non-affiliated manufacturers located in Guatemala and in the Far East or at our manufacturing facilities located in Guatemala. In the years 2005 and 2006 we produced products that accounted for 25% and 5%, respectively, of our net sales in our manufacturing facility in Guatemala and 9% and 1%, respectively, of our net sales in non-affiliated Guatemalan facilities. In the years 2005 and 2006, we produced, through a Mexican facility owned by a related party, products that accounted for 46% and 75%, respectively, of our net sales. In the years 2005 and 2006, we produced products that accounted for 20% and 19%, respectively, of our net sales from non-affiliated manufacturers located in the Far East. On a pro forma basis for years 2005 and 2006 assuming the Acquired Business and the Innovo Acquisition had been consummated on February 1, 2005, we produced products that accounted for 9% and 4%, respectively, of our net sales in our manufacturing facilities in Guatemala, and 3% and 1%, respectively, of our net sales in non-affiliated Guatemalan facilities. On a pro forma basis for years 2005 and 2006, we produced products that accounted for 80% and 78%, respectively, of our net sales from the related party Mexican facilities, and 8% and 17%, respectively, from non-affiliated manufacturers located in the Far East. Foreign manufacturing is subject to a number of risks, including work stoppages, transportation delays and interruptions, political instability, foreign currency fluctuations, economic disruptions, expropriation, nationalization, the imposition of tariffs and import and export controls, changes in governmental policies (including U.S. policy toward these countries) and other factors which could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, we may be subject to risks associated with the availability of and time required for the transportation of products from foreign countries. The occurrence of certain of these factors may delay or prevent the delivery of goods ordered by customers, and such delay or inability to meet delivery requirements would have a severe adverse impact on our results of operations and could have an adverse effect on our relationships with our customers. Furthermore, the occurrence of certain of these factors in Guatemala, where we own a manufacturing facility, could result the loss of our remaining investment located in this country. At January 31, 2006, based on an appraisal by an independent third party, we recorded a 100% impairment charge against our equipment, furniture and fixtures at our Guatemalan facility and established a salvage value, not subject to depreciation, for the building and building improvements in our Guatemala facility. We cannot assure you that we will be able to realize the salvage value recorded of $375,000 or that we may not incur additional losses due to severance and other obligations. 11 Table of Contents If we experience product quality or late delivery problems with contract manufacturers our business will be negatively affected. Historically, a significant portion of our products has been manufactured by non-affiliated contract manufacturers. In connection with the acquisition of the assets of Diversified Apparel, we entered into a Supply Agreement with AZT International S. de R.L. de C.V., or AZT, an affiliate of Diversified Apparel, and currently are reliant on AZT to supply most of our denim apparel products. We have from time to time experienced difficulties in obtaining timely delivery of products of acceptable quality. Such difficulties have resulted and may result in cancellation of orders, customer refusals to accept deliveries or reductions in purchase prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We believe that these difficulties have resulted and may continue to result from not having sufficient access to and control over the manufacturing processes of non-affiliated contract manufacturers. There can be no assurance that we will not experience difficulties with third parties responsible for the manufacture of our products, including AZT. In addition, our supply agreement with AZT terminates in July, 2007, and if it is not renewed, we may have difficulty sourcing the products manufactured by AZT at a similar cost or at all. Our failure to renew the AZT agreement or to find a replacement manufacturer on similar terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, we have been advised by Hubert Guez that a jury has found against him, Azteca, Sweet Sportswear and Apparel Distribution Services which, if such finding stands may adversely affect the financial ability of AZT to continue to provide manufacturing and distribution services to us. Our direct manufacturing operations increase our operating costs. We maintain and operate a manufacturing facility in Guatemala for our non-denim products. Operating manufacturing facilities rather than contracting with independent manufacturers requires us to maintain a higher level of working capital. In addition, reduced sales would have an even greater adverse impact on our profitability in light of the fixed costs needed to own or lease and operate our own factory. Legislation relating to the importation of or decreasing or increasing the cost of textiles and apparel produced abroad could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Effective January 1, 2005, the United States (“U.S.”) has discontinued textile import quotas affecting the products sourced by us. As a result, beginning in 2005 the U.S. total imports from China and other countries in the Far East, including the product categories manufactured by us in Guatemala and Mexico, have increased substantially. The U.S. has established a safeguard program which will limit the increase in apparel imports from China for years 2005 through 2008. Notwithstanding the safeguard program, our results of operations for products manufactured in Guatemala have been adversely affected for the years 2005 and 2006. We anticipate that our results of operations for products manufactured in Guatemala will continue to be adversely affected in 2007. Since the U.S. discontinued textile import quotas affecting products sourced by us on January 1, 2005, the amount of business we do for NY&C has decreased significantly, as NY&C has opted to place orders in China and other countries in the Far East. The provision for restructuring of $102,000 recorded in the first quarter of 2005 represents the severance cost associated with the reduction of the production capacity at our Guatemalan facility. The Central American countries, which include Guatemala, and the U.S., have negotiated a Central America Free Trade Agreement, or CAFTA. CAFTA, which was signed by the US on August 2, 2005, will allow the US duty free imports from Guatemala if the fabric is manufactured using yarn from the US or a country party to CAFTA. Guatemala ratified CAFTA as of July 1, 2006. We anticipate that, over time, CAFTA may make Guatemala more competitive with imports from the Far East in the categories manufactured by us in Guatemala, although we cannot assure you this will happen. To date we have not experienced an increase in demand for our products manufactured in Guatemala. 12 Table of Contents We have expanded our business through acquisitions that could result in diversion of resources and extra expenses. This could disrupt our business and adversely affect our financial condition. Historically, we have pursued acquisitions to expand our business. On May 12, 2006, we acquired certain assets related to the private label apparel division of Innovo and Innovo Azteca Apparel, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Innovo. On July 31, 2005, we acquired Diversified Apparel’s branded and private label denim apparel business. As a result of these acquisitions, we have substantial indebtedness which could decrease our flexibility to react to changing economic conditions. Two stockholders now control a majority of our outstanding common stock and thus control many decisions, including the election of directors and the sale of our Company. The negotiation of potential acquisitions as well as the integration of acquired businesses could divert our management’s time and resources. Acquired businesses may not be successfully integrated with our operations. We may not realize the intended benefits of any acquisition. The cyclical nature of the apparel industry and uncertainty over future economic prospects could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The fashion apparel industry in which we operate is cyclical. Many factors affect the level of consumer spending in the industry, including, among others: • general business conditions; • interest rates; • the availability of consumer credit; • taxation; and • consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our products, may decline during recessionary periods and also may decline at other times when disposable income is lower. A downturn in the economies in which we sell our products may adversely affect our sales. In addition, various retailers, including some of our customers, have experienced financial difficulties during recent years, which has increased our risk of losing customers and increased the risk of extending credit to such retailers. The seasonal nature of our business makes management more difficult, severely reduces cash flow and liquidity during parts of the year and could force us to curtail operations. Our business is seasonal. Our greatest volume of shipments and sales occur from late spring through the summer, which coincides with our second and third fiscal quarters. Historically, our cash flow is strongest in the third and fourth fiscal quarters. Unfavorable economic conditions affecting retailers during the fall and holiday seasons in any year could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the year. We are likely to experience periods of negative cash flow throughout each year and a drop-off in business commencing each December, which could force us to curtail operations if adequate liquidity is not available. We cannot assure you that the effects of such seasonality will diminish in the future. 13 Table of Contents If we lose the services of our key personnel, our business will be harmed. Our future success depends on Bernard Manuel, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer and other key personnel. The loss of the services of Mr. Manuel and any negative market or industry perception arising from the loss of his services could have a material adverse effect on us and the price of our shares. Our other executive officer, Roy Green, our Senior Vice President—Chief Financial Officer and Secretary, has substantial experience and expertise in our business and has made significant contributions to our success. His employment agreement was terminated in connection with the acquisition of the Acquired Business and he is now an “employee-at-will.” There can be no assurance that Mr. Green will remain an employee of Cygne. The unexpected loss of services of either of these individuals could adversely affect us. Our continued success is also dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified employees to support any future growth that we may experience. We face intense competition in the worldwide apparel industry. We face a variety of competitive challenges from other domestic and foreign fashion-oriented apparel producers. We do not currently hold a dominant competitive position in any market, including the private label apparel market, which is highly fragmented. We compete with competitors such as Kellwood, Jones Apparel Group, and VF Corp. primarily on the basis of: • anticipating and responding to changing consumer demands in a timely manner, • maintaining favorable brand recognition, • developing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors and styles that appeal to customers, • appropriately pricing products, • providing strong and effective marketing support, • creating an acceptable value proposition for retail customers, • ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain efficiencies with manufacturers and retailers, and • obtaining sufficient retail floor space and effective presentation of our products at retail. In addition, we face competition from our own customers, who have their own internal product development and sourcing capabilities. We believe that many of our customers who have the know-how and internal resources to develop and source directly a portion of their requirements constitute our major competition. Most of our competitors are larger in size and have greater resources than we do, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in competing with them in the future. 14 Table of Contents Our business could be negatively impacted by the financial instability or consolidation of our customers. Our customers are retailers located in the United States. Financial difficulties of a customer could cause us to curtail business with that customer. We may also assume more credit risk relating to that customer’s receivables. Our inability to collect on our trade accounts receivable from any one of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. More specifically, we are dependent primarily on lines of credit that we establish from time to time with customers, and should a substantial number of customers become unable to pay their respective debts as they become due, we may be unable to collect some or all of the monies owed by those customers. Furthermore, in recent years, the retail industry has experienced consolidation and other ownership changes. Some of our customers have operated under the protection of the federal bankruptcy laws. While to date these changes in the retail industry have not had a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition, our business could be materially affected by these changes in the future. We are currently dependent on supply and distribution agreements with Diversified Apparel and its related entities for a substantial portion of our supply, distribution and back office capabilities. In connection with our acquisition of the Acquired Business, we entered into a Supply Agreement and a Distribution Agreement for a two-year period ending July 31, 2007 with Diversified Apparel and its affiliated entities which we collectively refer to as Diversified Apparel. Under the terms of the Supply Agreement, Diversified Apparel will manufacture and supply us with our entire requirements of branded and private label denim apparel products. Although Diversified Apparel is obligated to deliver denim products ordered by us under the Supply Agreement, we have no obligation to source denim products from AZT. Under the terms of the Distribution Agreement, Diversified Apparel will provide us with specified distribution and back office operations services. In addition, Diversified is our vendor for all Far East finished goods purchases. The loss of our Supply and Distribution Agreements with Diversified Apparel could adversely affect our current supply responsibilities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew these agreements on acceptable terms, or at all. If these agreements are not renewed, we may have difficulty sourcing the products manufactured by AZT and distributing our products at a similar cost or at all. Our failure to renew either of the AZT agreements or to find a replacement manufacturer or distributor on similar terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, we have been advised by Hubert Guez that a jury has found against him, Azteca, Sweet Sportswear and Apparel Distribution Services which, if such finding stands may adversely affect the financial ability of AZT to continue to provide manufacturing and distribution services to us. Our trademark and other intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected outside of the United States. We believe that our trademarks, whether licensed to or owned by us, and other proprietary rights will be important to our success and our competitive position in the branded market. We may, however, experience conflict with various third parties who acquire or claim ownership rights in certain trademarks. We cannot assure that the actions we have taken to establish and protect these trademarks and other proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and proprietary rights of others. In addition, enforcing rights to our intellectual property may be difficult and expensive, and we may not be successful in combating counterfeit products and stopping 15 Table of Contents infringement of our intellectual property rights, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market share. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our trademark and other intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our trademark and other intellectual property rights. If we are unsuccessful in protecting and enforcing our intellectual property rights, continued sales of such competing products by third parties could harm our brand and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our debt levels may limit our flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities. We have a significant amount of debt. At January 31, 2007, we had indebtedness of $38.5 million and during the years 2005 and 2006 we have received advances from our factor of approximately 90% of our factored receivables or $49.6 and $86.9 million, respectively. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences to us, including the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; • we will need a substantial portion of our cash flow to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for our operations and future business opportunities; • we may issue a substantial portion of our authorized common shares for the purpose of making principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, reducing the shares that would otherwise be available for financing our future business opportunities and potentially diluting our common stock; • our debt level may make us more vulnerable than our competitors with less debt to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and • our debt level may limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. We currently plan to seek stockholder approval of the issuance of up to 17,485,715 shares of our common stock in satisfaction of the $37.0 million principal amount of our outstanding $38.5 million subordinated promissory note. We would issue 8,800,000 shares of our common stock in payment of $22.0 million of the Note; issue a convertible note in the principal amount of $15.0 million that is convertible into shares of our common stock at a conversion price of $3.50 per share in payment of $15.0 million of the Note; and issue a warrant to purchase up to 4,400,000 shares of our common stock at a price of $3.00 per share. The holder of the Note has agreed that we are only obligated to pay the remaining $1.5 million as and when we have available funds. In addition, any indebtedness we incur will be subject and subordinated to our obligations to Milberg Factors and our $38.5 million subordinated promissory note issued in the acquisition of the Acquired Business, or the Note. Accordingly, our ability to obtain additional debt financing is highly uncertain. Our ability to service our indebtedness will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance and cash flows, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results and cash flows are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments and/or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to affect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms, or at all. In addition, our obligations under the factoring agreement with Milberg Factors and our obligations under the Note are secured by substantially all our assets and if we are unable to repay our indebtedness, the lenders could seek to foreclose on such assets. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. 16 Table of Contents We are currently dependent on our Factoring Agreement, which is a critical component of working capital. We have a Factoring Agreement (“Agreement”) with Milberg Factors, Inc. (“Milberg”) which expires on July 31, 2007. The Agreement is automatically renewed for successive periods of one year unless terminated by the Company by giving 60 days written notice. In addition, Milberg may terminate the Agreement at any time by giving the Company 60 days written notice. The Agreement requires Milberg to purchase our trade accounts receivable which are acceptable to Milberg without recourse. Milberg, at its discretion, can advance us up to 90% of our net outstanding trade receivables. These advances are repayable on demand. The Milberg advances are a critical component of our working capital. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew the Agreement on acceptable terms, or at all. If the Agreement is not renewed, we may have difficulty in satisfying our working capital needs, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to risks associated with war and terrorist activities. Terrorism, or the threat of terrorism, may have an impact on the general economy, including reduced shopping activity as a result of public safety concerns and disruption in the receipt and delivery of merchandise. Earthquakes or other events outside of our control may damage our facilities or the facilities of third parties on which we depend. Our warehouse facility is located in California near major earthquake faults that have experienced earthquakes in the past. An earthquake or other natural disaster could disrupt our operations. Additionally, the loss of electric power, such as the temporary loss of power caused by power shortages in the grid servicing our warehouse facility, could disrupt operations or impair critical systems. Any of these disruptions or other events outside of our control could affect our business negatively, harming our operating results. In addition, if any facilities of our suppliers or customers are affected by earthquakes, power shortages, floods, hurricanes (monsoons), terrorism or other events outside of our control, our business could suffer. If our stockholders approve the issuance of shares of our common stock, a convertible note and a warrant in payment of $37.0 million principal amount of our outstanding $38.5 million subordinated promissory note, we will record a loss on extinguishment of debt, which will adversely affect our results of operations for 2007. In connection with our acquisition of the Acquired Business from Diversified Apparel, we issued a secured subordinated promissory note in the principal amount of $47.5 million, of which $38.5 million is currently outstanding. We obtained a third-party valuation to determine the fair value of the note for the purposes of determining the purchase price of the Acquired Business. As a result, we recorded a debt discount of $14,200,000 to reduce the carrying value of the note to fair value. The discount is being amortized to interest expense over the term of the loan. On January 3, 2006, we and Diversified Apparel entered into a note conversion agreement providing for the conversion of $7,500,000 of the principal amount of the promissory note to Diversified Apparel into 1,428,571 shares of our common stock at the rate of $5.25 per share. In connection with the conversion of $7,500,000 principal amount of the note, a loss on extinguishment (recorded as a component of interest expense) of approximately $2.1 million was recorded representing the pro-rata unamortized discount. Effective January 31, 2007, we and Mr. Kraif, the current holder of the note, agreed, subject to stockholder approval, to exchange $22.0 million principal amount of the note for 8,800,000 shares of common stock, to exchange $15.0 million of the note for a $15.0 million convertible promissory note, with a conversion price per share of $3.50, subject to adjustment under certain circumstances, and to issue to Mr. Kraif a warrant to purchase up to 4,400,000 shares of common stock at an exercise price per share of $3.00, subject to adjustment under certain circumstances. The remaining $1.5 million principal amount of the note will be converted into a liability of Cygne payable as and to the extent we have available funds. If Cygne's stockholders approve this transaction, Cygne will record a loss on extinguishment of debt, since the fair value of the stock, convertible note and warrants to be issued in the transaction exceeds the carrying value of the Note, due primarily to the unamortized discount at the time of exchange. This expense will adversely affect our results of operations for 2007. 17 Table of Contents Our business could suffer if our third party manufacturers violate labor laws or fail to conform to generally accepted ethical standards. We generally require our third party manufacturers to meet our standards for working conditions and other matters before we are willing to place business with them. As a result, we may not always obtain the lowest cost production. Moreover, we do not control our third party manufacturers or their respective labor practices. If one of our third party manufacturers violates generally accepted labor standards by, for example, using forced or indentured labor or child labor, failing to pay compensation in accordance with local law, failing to operate its factories in compliance with local safety regulations, or diverging from other labor practices generally accepted as ethical, we likely would cease dealing with that manufacturer, and we could suffer an interruption in our product supply. In addition, such a manufacturer’s actions could result in negative publicity and may damage our reputation and the value of our brand and discourage retail customers and consumers from buying our products. Risk Factors Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock A small number of shareholders are in a position to substantially control matters requiring a stockholder vote. As reflected in the Schedule 13D/A filed May 17, 2006, of the 26,462,109 shares of Common Stock outstanding as of that date, (i) Hubert Guez directly owns 4,426,420 shares, (ii) 4,428,571 shares are held by Diversified Apparel Resources, LLC, of which Hubert Guez is a 32.2% owner and the manager and, as such, may be deemed to beneficially own the shares owned by Diversified Apparel, (iii) 1,570,915 shares are held by the Guez Living Trust dated December 6, 1996 (“Guez Living Trust”), of which Hubert Guez is co-trustee and co-beneficiary and, as such, Mr. Guez may be deemed to be the beneficial owner of the shares owned by the trust, (iv) 1,379,225 shares are owned by 215 GZ Partners, which is 100% owned by Guez Living Trust, and accordingly Mr. Guez may be deemed to beneficially own the shares held by 215 GZ Partners, (v) 584,220 shares are owned by Griffin James Aron Irrevocable Trust dated January 1, 1996 (“Griffin Guez Trust”) of which Hubert Guez’s son is the sole beneficiary and Mr. Guez’s mother, Marguerite Ester Guez, is the trustee, and as such, Mr. Guez may be deemed to beneficially own the shares owned by Griffin Guez Trust, and (vi) 584,220 shares are owned by Stephan Avner Felix Guez Irrevocable Trust dated January 1, 1996 (“Stephan Guez Trust”) of which Mr. Guez’s son Stephen Guez is the trustee and sole beneficiary, and as such Mr. Guez may be deemed to beneficially own the shares owned by Stephan Guez Trust. Hubert Guez disclaims beneficial ownership of the securities held by Diversified Apparel and Guez Living Trust except to the extent of his pecuniary interest therein. Mr. Guez disclaims beneficial ownership of the securities held by Griffin Guez Trust and Stephan Guez Trust. In the aggregate, Hubert Guez controls approximately 12,973,571 shares of our common stock, which constitutes approximately 49% of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, Hubert Guez and Diversified Apparel effectively have the ability to control the outcome on all matters requiring stockholder approval, including, but not limited to, the election of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. All of these shares are being registered for resale. 18 Table of Contents In addition, Mr. Manuel owns 4,946,975 shares of our common stock, which constitutes approximately 20% of our outstanding common stock. Our certificate of incorporation, as amended, prohibits any stockholder from acquiring more than 5% of our outstanding common stock without the prior approval of our Board of Directors. Further, if our stockholders approve the issuance of shares of our common stock, a convertible note and a warrant to Mr. Kraif in partial payment of our indebtedness to him, Mr. Kraif will own 8,800,000 shares of our common stock, or approximately 25% our outstanding shares, and will have the right to purchase up to an additional 8,685,715 shares of our common stock, in which event he will own approximately 40% of our outstanding common stock. If Mr. Kraif owns approximately 25% of our common stock, Hubert Guez will control approximately 37% of our outstanding common stock, and if Mr. Kraif acquires all of our common stock that he is entitled to purchase, Hubert Guez will control approximately 30% of our outstanding common stock. See ”Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.” Our organizational documents and Delaware law have provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could negatively affect your investment. In addition to Diversified Apparel and Hubert Guez together beneficially owning approximately 49% of our common stock as of May 12, 2006, and the possibility that Mr. Kraif could own up to approximately 40% of our common stock, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company that stockholders may consider favorable. Some of these provisions: • limit the persons who can call special stockholder meetings; • require the approval of our Board of Directors for specified transfers of our capital stock; • require the approval of our Board of Directors for any person to acquire more than five percent of our common stock; and • authorize the issuance of up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock that can be created and issued by our board of directors without prior stockholder approval, commonly referred to as “blank check” preferred stock, with rights senior to those of our common stock. These and other provisions in our incorporation documents and Delaware law could allow our Board of Directors to affect your rights as a stockholder by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace Board members or take control of us. Because our Board of Directors is responsible for appointing members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt to replace the current management team. In addition, these provisions could deprive our stockholders of opportunities to realize a premium on the shares of common stock owned by them. 19 Table of Contents The price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly and could continue to fluctuate significantly. Between February 1, 2004 and January 31, 2007, the market price of our common stock has ranged from a low of $0.25 to a high of $6.74 per share. On April 16, 2007, the sale price of our common stock on the Nasdaq National Market was $2.05. The market price of our common stock may change significantly in response to various factors and events beyond our control, including: • fluctuations in our quarterly revenues or those of our competitors as a result of seasonality or other factors; • a shortfall in revenues or net income from that expected by securities analysts and investors; • changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance or the financial performance of our competitors or companies in our industry generally; • announcements concerning our competitors; • changes in product pricing policies by our competitors or our customers; • general conditions in our industry; and • general conditions in the securities markets. In addition, we are registering for resale by certain of our principal stockholders 13,928,571 shares of our common stock, which represents approximately 53% of our outstanding shares of common stock as of May 1, 2007. The average daily and weekly trading volume of our common stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market is significantly lower than the number of shares that will be registered for resale. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by these stockholders could negatively impact the price of our common stock. Further, we have agreed, subject to stockholder approval, to issue up to an aggregate of 17,485,715 shares of our common stock in connection with the partial payment of our outstanding $38.5 million promissory note. We have agreed to register those shares under the Securities Act for resale. Sales of these shares of common stock could also negatively impact the price of our common stock. ITEM 1(B). UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 