Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our common stock. Although the risks described below are all of the risks that we believe are material, they are not the only risks relating to our business and our common stock. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks and, therefore, you may lose all or part of your investment. Risk Factors Relating to Our Operations We rely on a few key customers for the majority of our revenue. We historically have been dependent on one or more key customers. A significant portion of our sales over the last three years has been to NY&C. Sales to NY&C accounted for approximately 4%, 32% and 82%, respectively, of our net sales for the years 2006, 2005 and 2004. For the year 2005 our sales to JC Penney and Kohl’s, our other major customers for that year, accounted for approximately 21% and 18%, respectively. For the year 2006, our sales to JC Penney, Kohl’s, Target and AEO accounted for approximately 16%, 14%, 15% and 27%, respectively, of our net sales. For the year 2007, sales to JC Penney, Kohl’s, Target and AEO accounted for 23%, 17%, 16% and 33%, respectively, of our net sales. Historically, our highest shipments are in our second quarter and third quarter, with lower sales in the fourth and first quarter. Although we have long-established relationships with our major customers, we do not have long-term contracts with these customers. Our future success will be dependent upon our ability to attract new customers and to maintain our relationships with our present customers. We continue to strive to maintain our positive working relationships with our customers by providing on-time deliveries of quality products at competitive prices. We cannot assure you that our major customers will continue to purchase merchandise from us at the same rate as they have historically purchased from us, or at all in the future, or that we will be able to attract new customers. In addition, our major customers have the ability to exert significant control over our business decisions, including prices. As a result of the United States discontinuance of textile import quotas affecting products sourced by us on January 1, 2005, we no longer do business with New York & Company, which had been a major customer, as New York & Company has opted to place orders in China and other countries in the Far East. Effective December 2007, we no longer do business with American Eagle Outfitters as a customer. We are subject to the risks of doing business abroad. During years 2005, 2006 and 2007, all of our products were manufactured outside the United States, at either a related party manufacturer located in Mexico, non-affiliated manufacturers located in Guatemala and in the Far East or at our manufacturing facilities located in Guatemala, which we closed in November 2007. In the 11 years 2005, 2006 and 2007, we produced products that accounted for 25%, 5% and 2%, respectively, of our net sales in our manufacturing facility in Guatemala and 9%, 1% and zero, respectively, of our net sales in non-affiliated Guatemalan facilities. In the years 2005, 2006 and 2007, we produced, through a Mexican facility owned by a related party, products that accounted for 46%, 71% and 53%, respectively, of our net sales. In the years 2005, 2006 and 2007, we produced products that accounted for 20%, 19% and 45%, respectively, of our net sales from non-affiliated manufacturers located in the Far East. On a pro forma basis for years 2005 and 2006 assuming the Acquired Business and the Innovo Acquisition had been consummated on February 1, 2005, we produced products that accounted for 9% and 5%, respectively, of our net sales in our manufacturing facilities in Guatemala, and 3% and 1%, respectively, of our net sales in non-affiliated Guatemalan facilities. On a pro forma basis for years 2005 and 2006, we produced products that accounted for 80% and 78%, respectively, of our net sales from the related party Mexican facilities, and 8% and 17%, respectively, from non-affiliated manufacturers located in the Far East. Foreign manufacturing is subject to a number of risks, including work stoppages, transportation delays and interruptions, political instability, foreign currency fluctuations, economic disruptions, expropriation, nationalization, the imposition of tariffs and import and export controls, changes in governmental policies (including U.S. policy toward these countries) and other factors which could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, we may be subject to risks associated with the availability of and time required for the transportation of products from foreign countries. The occurrence of certain of these factors may delay or prevent the delivery of goods ordered by customers, and such delay or inability to meet delivery requirements would have a severe adverse impact on our results of operations and could have an adverse effect on our relationships with our customers. If we experience product quality or late delivery problems with contract manufacturers, or if our contract manufacturers experience financial problems, our business will be negatively affected. Historically, a significant portion of our products have been manufactured by non-affiliated contract manufacturers. In connection with the acquisition of the assets of Diversified Apparel, we entered into a Supply Agreement with AZT International S. de R.L. de C.V., or AZT, an affiliate of Diversified Apparel, and from August 2005 to December 2007 were reliant on AZT to supply most of our denim apparel products. AZT’s only manufacturing facilities are located in Mexico. During 2005, 2006 and 2007, AZT supplied us with products that accounted for approximately 46%, 71%, and 53%, respectively, of our net sales, at specified gross margins. Beginning with the third quarter of 2007, we have primarily been sourcing such products from non-affiliated contract manufacturers, primarily in the Far East, rather than AZT and since December 2007 we no longer source products from AZT. We have from time to time experienced difficulties in obtaining timely delivery of products of acceptable quality. Such difficulties have resulted and may result in cancellation of orders, customer refusals to accept deliveries or reductions in purchase prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We believe that these difficulties have resulted and may continue to result from not having sufficient access to and control over the manufacturing processes of non-affiliated contract manufacturers. There can be no assurance that we will not experience difficulties with third parties responsible for the manufacture of our products, including AZT. In addition, we may have difficulty sourcing the products manufactured by AZT at a similar cost or at all. On December 18, 2007, a creditor company of AZT obtained a court decree against AZT which allowed this creditor company to obtain possession of all of our fabric, trim, work-in-process and finished goods located at the AZT manufacturing facilities in Mexico. AEO’s response was to cancel all orders issued to us and to issue new orders for the same garments to the creditor company. Shipments to AEO were estimated to be $2,700,000, and our projected sales were reduced by such amount. We no longer have AEO as a customer. We negotiated an agreement with the creditor company whereby the creditor company would continue to ship to us our second 12 customer’s garments and invoice us his costs for the garments shipped. We, in turn, invoiced our customers. We agreed to pay the creditor company thirty days after shipment of garments. At January 31, 2008, we owed the creditor company $954,000, which has not been paid as of the date hereof. Legislation relating to the importation of or decreasing or increasing the cost of textiles and apparel produced abroad could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Effective January 1, 2005, the United States, or the US, discontinued textile import quotas affecting the products sourced by us. As a result, beginning in 2005 the US total imports from China and other countries in the Far East, including the product categories manufactured by us in Guatemala and Mexico, have increased substantially. The US has established a safeguard program which will limit the increase in apparel imports from China for years 2005 through 2008. Notwithstanding the safeguard program, our results of operations for products manufactured in Guatemala have been adversely affected for the 2005, 2006 and 2007 years and, as a result, in November 2007 we closed our manufacturing facility in Guatemala. As a result of the United States discontinuance of textile import quotas affecting products sourced by us on January 1, 2005, we no longer do business with New York & Company, which had been a major customer, as New York & Company has opted to place orders in China and other countries in the Far East. The provision for restructuring of $102,000 recorded in the first quarter of 2005 represents the severance cost associated with the reduction of the production capacity at our Guatemalan facility. As a result of the closing of the manufacturing facility in November 2007, we incurred severance costs related to the closure of this facility of approximately $275,000 which was expensed and paid in the three months ended January 31, 2008. We have expanded our business through acquisitions that could result in diversion of resources and extra expenses. This could disrupt our business and adversely affect our financial condition. Historically, we have pursued acquisitions to expand our business. On May 12, 2006, we acquired certain assets related to the private label apparel division of Innovo and Innovo Azteca Apparel, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Innovo. On July 31, 2005, we acquired Diversified Apparel’s branded and private label denim apparel business. As a result of these acquisitions, we had substantial indebtedness that decreased our flexibility to react to changing economic conditions. Three stockholders now control a majority of our outstanding common stock and thus control many decisions, including the election of directors and the sale of our Company. The negotiation of potential acquisitions as well as the integration of acquired businesses could divert our management’s time and resources. Acquired businesses may not be successfully integrated with our operations. We may not realize the intended benefits of any acquisition. In connection with the acquisitions of the Innovo Acquisition and the Acquired Business, we recorded goodwill of $72,877,000 and identified intangible assets which included customer relationships, trademarks and product lines of $4,550,000. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142 (“SFAS No. 142”), “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” we assess the impairment of goodwill whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors we consider to be important which could trigger an impairment review include the following: • Significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results; • Significant changes in the manner of use of the acquired assets or the strategy for the overall business; and • Significant negative industry or economic trends. Accordingly, if sales to customers obtained in the Innovo Acquisition and through the Acquired Business continue to decline, the goodwill we recorded for these acquisitions may be impaired and therefore written-off in whole or in part. Any such write-off would adversely affect our results of operations. 13 In connection with the acquisitions of the Innovo Acquisition and the Acquired Business, we recorded goodwill of $72,877,000 and identified intangible assets which included customer relationships, trademarks and product lines with a carrying value of $2,650,000 at January 31, 2008. At January 31, 2008, we conducted our annual impairment assessment of the value of the goodwill and identified intangible assets based on a discounted cash flow model of projected earnings. To aid us, we retained an independent party to perform the valuation. Negative trends in sales and gross margins resulted in lower projected future earnings. The negative sales trends were the result of market conditions, the loss of two customers in 2007 which accounted for 49% of our 2007 sales, a substantial decrease in demand for our branded jeans and our non-denim private label products. The negative trends in gross margins resulted from the loss of guaranteed gross margins under the Supply Agreement. Based on the results of the valuation, charges of approximately $59,200,000 were recorded for the impairment of goodwill and charges of $2,650,000 were recorded to reflect the impairment of the value of the remaining identifiable intangible assets. The cyclical nature of the apparel industry and uncertainty over future economic prospects could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The fashion apparel industry in which we operate is cyclical. Many factors affect the level of consumer spending in the industry, including, among others: • general business conditions; • interest rates; • the availability of consumer credit; • taxation; and • consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our products, may decline during recessionary periods and also may decline at other times when disposable income is lower. A downturn in the economies in which we sell our products, principally the United States, may adversely affect our sales. We expect to receive fewer orders from our customers in 2008 compared to 2007 orders from these customer due to the current economic decline in the US. In addition, various retailers, including some of our customers, have experienced financial difficulties during recent years, which has increased our risk of losing customers and increased the risk of extending credit to such retailers. The seasonal nature of our business makes management more difficult, severely reduces cash flow and liquidity during parts of the year and could force us to curtail our operations. Our business is seasonal. Our greatest volume of shipments and sales occur from late spring through the summer, which coincides with our second and third fiscal quarters. Historically, our cash flow is strongest in the third and fourth fiscal quarters. Unfavorable economic conditions affecting retailers during the fall and holiday seasons in any year could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the year. We are likely to experience periods of negative cash flow throughout each year and a drop-off in business commencing each December, which could force us to curtail operations if adequate liquidity is not available. We cannot assure you that the effects of such seasonality will diminish in the future. We face intense competition in the worldwide apparel industry. We face a variety of competitive challenges from other domestic and foreign fashion-oriented apparel producers. We do not currently hold a dominant competitive position in any market, including the private label apparel market, which is highly fragmented. We compete with competitors such as Kellwood and VF Corp. primarily on the basis of: • anticipating and responding to changing consumer demands in a timely manner, 14 • maintaining favorable brand recognition, • developing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors and styles that appeal to customers, • appropriately pricing products, • providing strong and effective marketing support, • creating an acceptable value proposition for retail customers, • ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain efficiencies with manufacturers and retailers, and • obtaining sufficient retail floor space and effective presentation of our products at retail. In addition, we face competition from our own customers, who have their own internal product development and sourcing capabilities. We believe that many of our customers who have the know-how and internal resources to develop and source directly a portion of their requirements constitute our major competition. Most of our competitors are larger in size and have greater resources than we do, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in competing with them in the future. Our business could be negatively impacted by the financial instability or consolidation of our customers. Our customers are retailers located in the United States. Financial difficulties of a customer could cause us to curtail business with that customer. We may also assume more credit risk relating to that customer’s receivables. Our inability to collect on our trade accounts receivable from any one of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. More specifically, we are dependent primarily on lines of credit that we establish from time to time with customers, and should a substantial number of customers become unable to pay their respective debts as they become due, we may be unable to collect some or all of the monies owed by those customers. Furthermore, in recent years, the retail industry has experienced consolidation and other ownership changes. Some of our customers have operated under the protection of the federal bankruptcy laws. While to date these changes in the retail industry have not had a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition, our business could be materially affected by these changes in the future. We have been dependent on supply and distribution agreements with Diversified Apparel and its related entities for a substantial portion of our supply, distribution and back office capabilities. In connection with our acquisition of Diversified Apparel’s branded and private label denim apparel business, we entered into a Supply Agreement and a Distribution Agreement with Diversified Apparel and its affiliated entities, which we collectively refer to as Diversified Apparel. Under the terms of the Supply Agreement, through the third quarter of 2007 AZT, an affiliate of Diversified Apparel, manufactured and supplied us with most of our requirements of branded and private label denim apparel products with specified gross margins. Although AZT was obligated to deliver denim products ordered by us under the Supply Agreement, we had no obligation to source denim products from AZT. AZT no longer manufactures and supplies products to us. Under the terms of the Distribution Agreement, Diversified Apparel provides us with specified distribution and back office operations services. In addition, Diversified Apparel has been our vendor for all Far East finished goods purchases. 15 Beginning with the third quarter of 2007, we began to primarily rely, and since December 2007, have relied solely on non-affiliated contract manufacturers, primarily in the Far East, rather than AZT, to manufacture and supply us with goods. We cannot assure you that we will be able to source our products at a cost similar to that charged to us by Diversified Apparel. Our failure to source our products at a similar cost could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. On July 31, 2007, we modified our Supply and Distribution Agreements with Diversified Apparel. As a result, we purchased the entire inventory at our Commerce California warehouse and the fabric at AZT. Subsequent to July 31, 2007, we purchased our fabric for production in Mexico. These changes require us to maintain higher inventory balances and consequently, higher balances with our credit lines. Our trademark and other intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected. We believe that our trademarks, whether licensed to or owned by us, and other proprietary rights will be important to our success and our competitive position in the branded market. We may, however, experience conflict with various third parties who acquire or claim ownership rights in certain trademarks. We cannot assure that the actions we have taken to establish and protect these trademarks and other proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and proprietary rights of others. In addition, enforcing rights to our intellectual property may be difficult and expensive, and we may not be successful in combating counterfeit products and stopping infringement of our intellectual property rights, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market share. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our trademark and other intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our trademark and other intellectual property rights. If we are unsuccessful in protecting and enforcing our intellectual property rights, continued sales of such competing products by third parties could harm our brand and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our debt levels have limited, and in the future may limit, our flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities. Since July 31, 2005, we have had a significant amount of debt. At January 31, 2007 and January 31, 2008, we had indebtedness of $38.5 million and $15.9 million, respectively. During the 2006 and the 2005 years, and the six months ended July 31, 2007, we received advances from our factor of approximately 90% of our factored receivables, or $86.9 million, $49.6 million and $30.0 million, respectively. Starting in August 2007 through January 31, 2008 we borrowed an aggregate of $52 million from Comerica Bank, our current lender, with the largest amount outstanding at any one time being $14.2 million. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences to us, including the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; • we will need a substantial portion of our cash flow to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for our operations and future business opportunities; • we may issue a substantial portion of our authorized common shares for the purpose of making principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, reducing the shares that would otherwise be available for financing our future business opportunities and potentially diluting our common stock; • our debt level may make us more vulnerable than our competitors with less debt to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and • our debt level may limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. 16 In addition, any indebtedness we incur will be subject and subordinated to our obligations under our revolving credit facility with Comerica Bank. Accordingly, our ability to obtain additional debt financing is highly uncertain. Our ability to service our indebtedness will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance and cash flows, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results and cash flows are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments and/or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to affect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms, or at all. In addition, our obligations under the revolving credit agreement with Comerica Bank are secured by substantially all our assets and if we are unable to repay our indebtedness, the lenders could seek to foreclose on such assets. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. We are currently dependent on our revolving credit facility, which is a critical component of working capital. We have a $15.0 million secured revolving credit facility with Comerica Bank that provides us with working capital borrowings. Cygne can borrow up to 80% of eligible receivables, 70% of finished goods inventory located at Cygne’s warehouse, up to a maximum of $1.25 million, 80% of eligible in-transit inventory, up to a maximum of $1.5 million, and 15% of undrawn letters of credit up to a maximum of $350,000. The credit facility terminates on August 31, 2009, although Cygne can terminate it at any time upon 60 days notice and Comerica can terminate at any time upon a default under the credit agreement. The revolving credit facility contains customary covenants, including limitations on, or relating to, capital expenditures, liens, indebtedness, investments, mergers, acquisitions, and the payment of dividends and other restricted payments. The revolving credit facility also contains working capital, net worth and EBITDA requirements as well as a debt to net worth ratio requirement to be monitored on a quarterly basis. At January 31, 2008, we were in default with the working capital, net worth, EBITDA and debt to net equity ratio requirements. Comerica Bank issued a notice of no action to Cygne regarding the default on the covenants. The bank’s decision to not take action to enforce its rights under the agreement does not constitute a waiver of any of the Bank’s rights, powers and remedies with respect to the defaults. If this credit agreement is terminated, the bank demands immediate payment of all outstanding borrowings as a result of being in default of our covenants, or our borrowing availability is restricted thereunder, we may have difficulty in satisfying our working capital needs, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to risks associated with war and terrorist activities. Terrorism, or the threat of terrorism, may have an impact on the general economy, including reduced shopping activity as a result of public safety concerns and disruption in the receipt and delivery of merchandise. Earthquakes or other events outside of our control may damage our facilities or the facilities of third parties on which we depend. Our warehouse facility is located in California near major earthquake faults that have experienced earthquakes in the past. An earthquake or other natural disaster could disrupt our operations. Additionally, the loss of electric power, such as the temporary loss of power caused by power shortages in the grid servicing our warehouse facility, could disrupt operations or impair critical systems. Any of these disruptions or other events outside of our control could affect our business negatively, harming our operating results. In addition, if any facilities of our suppliers or customers are affected by earthquakes, power shortages, floods, hurricanes (monsoons), terrorism or other events outside of our control, our business could suffer. 17 Our business could suffer if our third party manufacturers violate labor laws or fail to conform to generally accepted ethical standards. We generally require our third party manufacturers to meet our standards for working conditions and other matters before we are willing to place business with them. As a result, we may not always obtain the lowest cost production. Moreover, we do not control our third party manufacturers or their respective labor practices. If one of our third party manufacturers violates generally accepted labor standards by, for example, using forced or indentured labor or child labor, failing to pay compensation in accordance with local law, failing to operate its factories in compliance with local safety regulations, or diverging from other labor practices generally accepted as ethical, we likely would cease dealing with that manufacturer, and we could suffer an interruption in our product supply. In addition, such a manufacturer’s actions could result in negative publicity and may damage our reputation and the value of our brand and discourage retail customers and consumers from buying our products. Risk Factors Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock A small number of stockholders are in a position to substantially control matters requiring a stockholder vote. As of January 23, 2008, Mr. Hubert Guez has reported in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission that he beneficially owned, had the power to dispose or direct the disposition of, and to vote or direct the voting of, shares, personally, through various trusts and Diversified Apparel, representing approximately 21.2% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. In addition, as of November 23, 2007, Serge Kraif has reported in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission that he owned, had the power to dispose or direct the disposition of, and to vote or direct the voting of, shares representing approximately 23.6% of the shares of our outstanding common stock. Further, as of January 31, 2008, Mr. Kraif has the right to acquire up to an additional 6,364,286 shares of common stock (which would increase his ownership to approximately 34.6% of our common stock) through the conversion of the Convertible Note and exercise of the Note Warrant issued to Mr. Kraif. Accordingly, Hubert Guez and Serge Kraif effectively have the ability to control the outcome on all matters requiring stockholder approval, including, but not limited to, the election of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. All of the shares beneficially owned by Mr. Guez and Mr. Kraif have been registered for resale under the Securities Act of 1933. In addition, Mr. Manuel owns 4,946,975 shares of our common stock, which constitutes approximately 13.0% of our outstanding common stock (approximately 11.2% after giving effect to the issuance of common stock to Mr. Kraif upon conversion of the Convertible Note and the exercise of the Note Warrant). All of the shares beneficially owned by Mr. Manuel were registered for resale in Form S-3 dated January 11, 2008. Our certificate of incorporation, as amended, prohibits any stockholder from acquiring more than 5% of our outstanding common stock without the prior approval of our Board of Directors. Our organizational documents and Delaware law have provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could negatively affect your investment. In addition to Diversified Apparel, Hubert Guez and Mr. Kraif together beneficially owning a majority of our outstanding common stock, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company that stockholders may consider favorable. Some of these provisions: • limit the persons who can call special stockholder meetings; • require the approval of our Board of Directors for specified transfers of our capital stock; • require the approval of our Board of Directors for any person to acquire more than five percent of our common stock; and • authorize the issuance of up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock that can be created and issued by our board of directors without prior stockholder approval, commonly referred to as “blank check” preferred stock, with rights senior to those of our common stock. 18 These and other provisions in our incorporation documents and Delaware law could allow our Board of Directors to affect your rights as a stockholder by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace Board members or take control of us. Because our Board of Directors is responsible for appointing members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt to replace the current management team. In addition, these provisions could deprive our stockholders of opportunities to realize a premium on the shares of common stock owned by them. The price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly and could continue to fluctuate significantly. Between February 1, 2004 and January 31, 2008, the market price of our common stock has ranged from a low of $0.25 to a high of $6.74 per share. On May 2, 2008, the last reported sale price of our common stock on the NASDAQ was $0.43. The market price of our common stock may change significantly in response to various factors and events beyond our control, including: • fluctuations in our quarterly revenues or those of our competitors as a result of seasonality or other factors; • a shortfall in revenues or net income from that expected by securities analysts and investors; • changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance or the financial performance of our competitors or companies in our industry generally; • announcements concerning our competitors; • changes in product pricing policies by our competitors or our customers; • general conditions in our industry; and • general conditions in the securities markets. In addition, on January 11, 2008, we registered the sale of 25,674,078 shares of our common stock, which represents approximately 56.6% of our outstanding shares of common stock (assuming the exercise of warrants and conversion of convertible securities held by the selling stockholders). The average daily and weekly trading volume of our common stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market is significantly lower than the number of shares that were registered for resale. Sales of our common stock by these stockholders could negatively impact the price of our common stock. On January 14, 2008, we received a Nasdaq Staff Deficiency Letter indicating that we fail to comply with the minimum bid price requirement for continued listing because the bid price of our common stock has closed under $1.00 for the last 30 business days. Under Nasdaq rules, we have until July 14, 2008 to regain compliance. If at July 14, 2008, our minimum bid price has not closed at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days but we are otherwise in compliance with the initial listing criteria, we will have an additional 180 calendar day to come into compliance with the minimum bid requirement. If we cannot come into compliance with the Nasdaq rules within the time periods specified about, our common stock will be delisted. There can be no assurance that we will be able to come into compliance with the requirements for continued listing on Nasdaq. ITEM 1(B). UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 19 