Risk Factors Relating to Regulations in Mexico to which our Business is Subject Mexican Antitrust Law and Regulations May Affect Our Ability to do Business. Mexico’s federal antitrust law, or Ley Federal de Competencia Económica, and its regulations, or Reglamento de la Ley Federal de Competencia Económica, may affect some of our activities. In particular, these laws and regulations may adversely affect our ability to acquire and sell businesses or to enter into joint ventures with competitors due to our market share in some of the industries in which we operate and the reduced number of participants in those markets. Changes in Mexican Legislation May Negatively Affect Our Operations and Revenue. Existing laws and regulations could be amended, the manner in which laws and regulations are enforced or interpreted could change, and new laws or regulations could be adopted. The implementation of such amendments or changes in interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations or any other future laws or regulations could materially and adversely affect our operations and revenue. 10 Table of Contents In September 2007, the Mexican Congress approved a new federal tax applicable to all Mexican corporations (which will be applicable to us), known as the single rate business tax (Impuesto Empresarial a Tasa Única), or IETU, which is a form of an alternative minimum tax and replaces the asset tax that previously applied to corporations and other taxpayers in Mexico. The IETU is a tax that will be imposed at the rate of 16.5% for calendar year 2008, 17.0% for calendar year 2009 and 17.5% for calendar year 2010 and thereafter. A Mexican corporation is required to pay the IETU if, as a result of the calculation of the IETU, the amount payable under the IETU exceeds the income tax payable by the corporation under the Mexican Income Tax Law (Ley del Impuesto Sobre la Renta). In general terms, the IETU is determined by applying the rates specified above to the amount resulting from deducting from a company’s taxable income, among other items, goods acquired (consisting of raw materials and capital investments), services provided by independent contractors and lease payments required for the performance of the activities taxable under the IETU. Salaries, royalty payments made to related parties and interest payments arising from financing transactions are not deductible for purposes of determining the IETU. However, salaries subject to income tax and social security contributions paid to employees are creditable for purposes of determining the IETU. The legislation became effective in January 2008. We have currently initiated an injunction through a constitutional appeal, or “amparo” proceeding, against the IETU. We cannot assure you that such proceeding will be in our favor, thus potentially increasing our tax liabilities. Although we cannot currently predict the impact of this legislation or quantify its effect on our tax liability for future years, this change in the tax regime could materially increase our tax liabilities and cash tax payments, including by limiting our ability to make use of tax loss carry forwards, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our Ability to Increase the Prices of Some Products is Regulated by the Mexican Government. Our historical operating performance has been significantly affected by price controls imposed by the Mexican government in the pharmaceutical sector. Prices of pharmaceuticals continue to be subject to approval by the Mexican government. As a result, neither our suppliers nor we may be able to increase pharmaceutical prices at or above the rate of inflation, which would substantially limit the growth of our pharmaceutical-related revenues. Since 1990, the Mexican government has deregulated pharmaceutical prices to some extent, and prices have increased in the Mexican pharmaceutical market as a result of this deregulation. However, we cannot assure you that the Mexican government will continue to deregulate pharmaceutical prices, or if they do, that our ability to increase prices will continue, or that these increases will result in an improvement in our operating performance. Any Value-Added Tax Imposed on Prescription Drugs May Adversely Affect Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Unlike the HBA/other products, entertainment products, general merchandise and other products that we distribute, the prescription drugs and over-the-counter drugs that we distribute are not currently subject to a 15% value-added tax. In April 2001, a proposal was filed with the Mexican Congress requesting a substantial amendment to Mexican tax laws. One of the reforms contemplated by this proposal was an increase in the value-added tax on prescription drugs and over-the-counter drugs from 0% to 15%. Although that bill was not passed by the Mexican Congress, the current Government may file similar proposals. If prescription drugs and over-the-counter drugs become subject to a value-added tax in excess of the currently applicable 0% rate, the prices paid by consumers for prescription drugs and over-the-counter drugs would likely increase by the percentage amount of the value-added tax rate. While any price increases resulting from the imposition of a higher value-added tax would be non-recurring, we still believe that these price increases would have an adverse effect on consumer demand for these products and result in a decrease in related revenues. To the extent that any of these price increases adversely impact revenues related to prescription drugs and over-the-counter drugs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that the proposal containing this request or other similar proposals will not be filed again with the Mexican Congress and, if such proposal were enacted into law, will not adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 