Risk Factors Relating to Economic and Political Developments in Mexico.” Economic Situation In 2001 due to a slowdown in the international economic environment, Mexico’s GDP decreased by 0.2% and inflation declined to 4.4%. This economic slowdown continued in 2002 and Mexico’s GDP increased by 0.8% and annual inflation reached 5.7%. In 2003, the concerns about the recovery of the U.S. economy continued, the war with Iraq took place and there were no major advances in the structural reforms expected in Mexico. The combination of these factors affected Mexico’s GDP which grew in the period by 1.4%, while inflation declined to 4.0% and the interest rates on 28-day CETES averaged 6.2%. In 2004 several factors helped to boost the Mexican economy, including the recuperation of the U.S. economy, higher revenues generated from petroleum sales and an increase in remittances. During this period, Mexico’s GDP grew by 4.2%, while inflation reached 5.2% and the interest rates on 28-day CETES averaged 6.8%. Even after a significant drop in exports, in particular, relating to the auto industry and lower public and private investments, during 2005 the economy benefited from sharp increases in oil prices and global economic recovery, therefore, the country’s GDP for the year grew by 2.97%, inflation reached a low of 3.3% and the interest rate on 28-day CETES averaged 9.19%. During the first quarter of 2006, Mexico’s GDP grew by 0.9%, inflation reached 0.9% and the interest rates on 28-day CETES averaged 7.6%. 26 Table of Contents For each of the years ended on December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, approximately 99% of our consolidated net sales resulted from sales to parties located within Mexico. In the past, inflation has led to high interest rates and devaluations of the Peso. Inflation itself, as well as governmental efforts to reduce inflation, has had significant negative effects on the Mexican economy in general and on Mexican companies, including us, in particular. One result of inflation in Mexico is the decrease in the real purchasing power of the Mexican population, which can lead to a decrease in the demand for the products we distribute. In addition, the Mexican government’s efforts to control inflation by tightening the monetary supply have historically resulted in higher financing costs as real interest rates have increased. Such policies have had and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Currency Fluctuations Although we currently do not have any U.S. Dollar-denominated indebtedness and do not expect to incur any U.S. Dollar-denominated indebtedness in the near term in connection with our current business plan, we may need to do so in the future. Substantially all of our revenues are and will continue to be Peso-denominated. As a result, should we incur any substantial U.S. Dollar-denominated indebtedness, we would be adversely affected by decreases in the value of the Peso against the U.S. Dollar, which would most likely result in net foreign exchange losses. In 2005, based on changes in the Noon Buying Rate for Mexican Pesos as reported by the Board of Governors of the U.S. Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the Peso appreciated by approximately 4.7% against the U.S. Dollar. In the first quarter of 2006, the Peso depreciated by approximately 2.6% against the U.S. Dollar. Any future depreciation or devaluation of the Peso will likely result in price increases from our suppliers which could impact the purchasing capacity of the final consumers, causing a reduction in our net sales. Severe devaluation or depreciation of the Peso may also result in the disruption of the international foreign exchange markets. This may limit our ability to transfer or to convert Pesos into U.S. Dollars and other currencies for the purpose of making timely payments of principal and interest on any non-Peso-denominated indebtedness we may incur in the future, which could, in turn, affect our ability to obtain foreign services and products. Devaluation or depreciation of the Peso against the U.S. Dollar may also adversely affect U.S. Dollar prices for our securities on the Mexican Stock Exchange, including the Ordinary Shares and, as a result, will likely affect the market price of the ADSs. Such fluctuations would also impact the conversion value of any cash dividends paid on the Ordinary Shares in Pesos into U.S. Dollars. Inflation and Interest Rates In recent years, Mexico has experienced high levels of inflation. The rate of inflation on an annualized basis, as measured by changes in NCPI, was 4.0%, 5.2% and 3.3% for 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. High inflation rates can adversely affect our business and our results of operations by adversely affecting consumer purchasing power, thereby adversely affecting consumer demand for the products we distribute. In addition, to the extent inflation exceeds our price increases or to the extent we do not increase our prices, high inflation rates can adversely affect our prices and revenues by adversely affecting our prices in “real” terms. Mexico has had, and is expected to continue to have, high real and nominal interest rates. The interest rates on 28-day Mexican government treasury bonds averaged approximately 6.2%, 6.8% and 9.1% for 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. In the first quarter of 2006, the 28-day CETES averaged 7.6%. Accordingly, if we need to incur Peso-denominated indebtedness in the future, it will most likely be at higher interest rates than in the United States. 27 Table of Contents Introduction to Our Operations The following table sets forth the real price increases and unit volume growth for our Private Pharma division, our core business division, for the years indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2003 2004 2005 Total Private Pharmaceuticals Market: Real Unit Price Increases 7.6 % 6.6 % 6.2 % Growth in Units 1.7 % -3.2 % 2.1 % Grupo Casa Saba Private Pharmaceutical Products: Real Unit Price Increases 4.2 % 7.2 % 7.4 % Growth in Units 1.5 % -6.8 % -5.0 % Market Share of Grupo Casa Saba(1): 27.9 % 26.0 % 24.0 % Inflation(2) 4.0 % 5.2 % 3.3 % _________________ (1) Based on information from IMS Health, A.G. and Grupo Casa Saba estimates. This market share does not include purchases made by government institutions and sales in the private pharmaceutical market from similares, generics and impulso. Also, includes an estimate made by IMS of sales that are not done through wholesalers. (2) Based on the changes in the NCPI. For a more detailed description of the Mexican private pharmaceutical market and our private pharmaceutical business, see “Item 