Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Relating to our Business In November 2011, MRMI, along with all the other New York racetracks, with the exception of Aqueduct who has a management agreement, received the Letter from the RWB and the NYL indicating that the RWB and NYL would be conducting a joint review of applicant license materials for the first time since the advent of VGM operations in the state. In addition, the Letter indicated that the RWB was considering an open competition for re-award of licenses forfeited for failure to meet appropriate standards and an open competition for determining licensure for the 2013 calendar year. If this open competition were implemented, the Company’s business may be adversely impacted. On November 4, 2011, each holder of a New York racetrack license with a VGM facility received the Letter from the NYL and the RWB, which notified the license holders that RWB has commenced its review of the holder’s racetrack license renewal application for calendar year 2012. The Letter said that, for the first time since the commencement of VGM operations, the NYL and RWB will be conducting a joint review of applicant license materials. While there has been no change to the laws governing racing or VGM operations, the Letter also indicated that the RWB is considering an open competition process for the re-award of licenses forfeited for failure to meet licensing and operating standards and is also considering whether all track licenses should be subject to an open competition for determining licensure for the 2013 calendar year. Generally, the annual license renewal process requires the RWB to review the financial responsibility, experience, character and general fitness of MRMI and its management. We intend to cooperate fully with RWB and NYL during this annual review and vigorously pursue the renewal of MRMI’S racetrack and simulcast licenses. An open competition for gaming and video lottery gaming licenses each year will create significant uncertainty in our ability to operate our business from year to year and may negatively impact our operations at Monticello Casino and Raceway. On February 29, 2012, RWB extended MRMI’S racing dates through April 30, 2012. RWB’s staff expressed concerns over the stock ownership by certain of our stockholders. We are fully cooperating with RWB staff regarding this matter. We will require additional financing in order to develop any projects and we may be unable to meet our future capital requirements and execute our business strategy. Because we are unable to generate sufficient cash from our operations to develop any future projects, we will be required to rely on external financing. Any projections of future cash needs and cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. Our capital requirements depend upon several factors, including the rate of market acceptance, our ability to expand our customer base and increase revenues, our level of expenditures for marketing and sales, purchases of equipment and other factors. If our capital requirements vary materially from those currently planned, we may require additional financing sooner than anticipated. We can make no assurance that financing will be available in amounts or on acceptable terms, if at all. If we cannot raise funds, if needed, on acceptable terms, we may be required to delay, scale back or eliminate some of our expansion and development goals and we may not be able to continue our operations, grow market share, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements, which could negatively impact our business, operating results and financial condition. We will seek additional debt financing to fund our development goals. Substantial leverage and debt service obligations may adversely affect our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. We may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future to fund our development goals. Our level of indebtedness will have several important effects on our future operations, including, without limitation: • a portion of our cash flow from operations will be dedicated to the payment of any interest or principal required with respect to outstanding indebtedness; 8 Table of Contents • the debt documents may contain restrictive covenants curtailing our operations and finances; • increases in our outstanding indebtedness and leverage will increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as to competitive pressure; and • depending on the levels of our outstanding indebtedness, our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, general corporate and other purposes may be limited. Our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which is subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. Our business might not continue to generate cash flow at or above current levels. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required, among other things, to: • seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; • delay, curtail or abandon altogether our development plans; • refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; or • sell selected assets. Such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness. In addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If revenues and operating income from our operations at Monticello Casino and Raceway do not increase, it could adversely affect our financial performance. There can be no assurance that our operations will draw sufficient crowds to Monticello Casino and Raceway to increase our revenues to the point that we will continue recognizing net income. The operations and placement of our VGMs, including the layout and distribution, are under the jurisdiction of the NYL and the program contemplates that a significant share of the responsibility for marketing the program will be borne by the NYL. The NYL is not required to make decisions that we feel are in our best interest and, as a consequence, the profitability of our VGM operations may not reach the levels that we believe to be feasible or may be slower than expected in reaching those levels. Legislation passed in 2008 increased our share of VGM revenue, permitting us to retain 42% of gross VGM revenue for a period of five years beginning on April 1, 2008 and, following such five-year period, permitting us to retain 40% of the first $50 million, 29% of the next $100 million and 26% thereafter. No assurance can be given that such increased revenue will be sufficient to generate a profit and continue to do so. Additionally, effective August 4, 2010, legislation was passed to reduce operator fees by one percentage point at each level of VGM revenues. Our operations are subject to many regulatory, competitive, economic and business risks beyond our control, and a change in this regard could have a material adverse impact on our operations and our business prospects. As a holding company, we are dependent on the operations of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions in order to generate internal cash flow. We are a holding company with no revenue generating operations. Consequently, our ability to meet our working capital requirements and to service our debt obligations depends on the earnings and the distribution of funds from our subsidiaries. While our current operations generate sufficient cash flow to fund our obligations, there can be no assurance that these subsidiaries will generate sufficient revenue to make cash distributions in an amount necessary for us to satisfy our working capital requirements or our obligations under any current or future indebtedness. In addition, these subsidiaries may enter into contracts that limit or prohibit their ability to make distributions. Should our subsidiaries be unable to make distributions, our ability to meet our ongoing obligations would be jeopardized. Specifically, without the making of distributions, we would be unable to pay our employees, accounting professionals or legal professionals, all of whom we rely on to manage our operations, ensure regulatory compliance and sustain our public company status. 9 Table of Contents Changes in the laws, regulations, and ordinances (including local laws) to which the gaming industry is subject, and the application or interpretation of existing laws and regulations, or our inability or the inability of our subsidiaries, key personnel, significant stockholders, or joint venture partners to obtain or maintain required gaming regulatory licenses, permits or approvals could prevent us from pursuing future development projects or otherwise adversely impact our results of operation. The ownership, management and operation of our current and any future gaming facilities are and will be subject to extensive federal, state, provincial, and/or local laws, regulations and ordinances that are administered by the relevant regulatory agency or agencies in each jurisdiction. These laws, regulations and ordinances vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally concern the responsibilities, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations, and often require such parties to obtain certain licenses, permits and approvals. In addition, licenses that we and our subsidiaries, officers, directors and principal stockholders hold generally expire after a relatively short period of time and thus require frequent renewals and reevaluations. Obtaining these licenses in the first place and the renewal process involves a subjective determination by the regulatory agencies. If we or our subsidiaries do not obtain and maintain the required licenses, permits and approvals, we may be required to divest our interest in our current or future gaming facilities or our current gaming facility risks losing its licenses. These laws, regulations and ordinances may also affect the operations of our gaming facilities or our plans in pursuing future projects. The Racing, Pari-Mutuel Wagering and Breeding Law of New York State requires our stockholders to possess certain qualifications. If the RWB believes a stockholder does not meet their subjective determination, a stockholder may be forced to sell any stock they hold and such sale may result in a material loss of investment value for the stockholder. The Racing, Pari-Mutuel Wagering and Breeding Law of New York State requires our stockholders to possess certain qualifications. A failure to possess such qualifications could lead to a material loss of investment by either us or our stockholders, as it would require divestiture of the stockholder’s direct or indirect interest in us. Consequently, should any stockholder ever fail to meet the qualifications necessary to own a direct or indirect interest in us by RWB, such stockholder could be forced to liquidate all interests in us. Should such stockholder be forced to liquidate these interests within a relatively short period of time, such stockholder would likely be forced to sell at a discount, causing a material loss of investment value. During 2002, certain affiliates of Bryanston Group, Inc. (“Bryanston Group”), our former largest stockholder, and certain of our other stockholders and officers (“Series E Preferred Stockholders”) were indicted for various counts of tax and bank fraud. On September 5, 2003, one of these Series E Preferred Stockholders pleaded guilty to felony tax fraud, and on February 4, 2004, four additional former officers and Series E Preferred Stockholders were convicted of tax and bank fraud. None of the acts these individuals were charged with or convicted of relate to their ownership interests in us and their remaining interests do not provide them with any significant control in the management of the Company or MRMI. However, there can be no assurance that none of the various governmental agencies that now, or in the future may, regulate and license our gaming related activities will factor in these indictments or criminal acts in evaluating our ability to obtain or maintain required licenses, permits or approvals. Should a regulatory agency determine that the indictments and convictions of some of our Series E Preferred Stockholders affect our ability to obtain or maintain required licenses, permits or approvals, we could be forced to liquidate certain or all of our gaming interests. MRMI received an e-mail message from RWB staff on January 5, 2010, requesting updated information about our plans to divest the Series E Preferred Stockholders of their remaining interests in us. In response, we informed the RWB that we were in the process of engaging an investment banking firm, which we engaged in March 2010, to explore our options with respect to the restructuring of our debt and other obligations, including our Series E Preferred Stock. The engagement with the investment banking firm was terminated following our receipt of the Bridge Loan and we have not currently retained any third party advisors with respect to the Series E Preferred Stock. We are continuing to discuss with RWB the status of the investment in our Series E Preferred 10 Table of Contents Stock. According to the terms of our Series E Preferred Stock, we have the option to redeem these shares at a price of $10 per share plus all accrued and unpaid dividends. The cost of redeeming all of these shares, as of December 31, 2011, was approximately $29.8 million. We may not be able to obtain sufficient financing in amounts or on terms that are acceptable to us in order to redeem all of these shares, should this be required. The gaming industry in the northeastern United States is highly competitive, with many of our competitors better known and better financed than us. The gaming industry in the northeastern United States is highly competitive and increasingly dominated by multinational corporations or Native American tribes that enjoy widespread name recognition, established brand loyalty, decades of casino operation experience, and a diverse portfolio of gaming assets and substantially greater financial resources. We face competition for our VGM operations from Yonkers Raceway which is located within the New York City metropolitan area. The Yonkers facility, which is much closer to New York City, has a harness horseracing facility, approximately 5,300 VGMs, food and beverage outlets and other amenities. In contrast, we have limited financial resources and currently operate our harness horse racing facility and VGMs in Monticello, New York, which is approximately a one and a half hour drive from New York City. Additionally, in January 2010, the Pennsylvania legislature authorized and its Governor approved table games in its existing slot-machine facilities, which amended and augmented the legislation passed in July 2004 in which Pennsylvania legalized the operation of up to 61,000 slot machines at 14 locations throughout the state to permit table games at the slot-machine facilities. The legislation authorized all table games, including blackjack, craps, roulette, baccarat, and poker at thoroughbred and harness racetracks with slot-machine facilities and stand-alone slot-machine facilities, and the granting of credit to guests of the Pennsylvania casinos. Table games became operational in Pennsylvania’s casinos in July 2010. Presently approximately 960 table games, including poker tables, are offered at the Pennsylvania casinos. Both Pennsylvania casinos that we compete against have installed and offer table games. As of March 2012, there were ten casinos in operation within Pennsylvania, with six located at race tracks. One such race track facility is the Mohegan Sun at Pocono Downs, which has approximately 2,300 slot machines and 82 table games, including 16 poker tables. The Mohegan Sun at Pocono Downs in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, is approximately 75 miles southwest of Monticello. In addition, the Mount Airy Casino Resort has approximately 2,000 slot machines, a hotel, spa, and a golf course. In July 2010 it began the operation of table games and now operates 72 table games, which includes 11 poker tables. The Mount Airy Casino Resort is located in Mount Pocono, Pennsylvania, approximately 60 miles southwest of Monticello. The development of new casinos in Pennsylvania will likely increase the degree of competition within our market and may have an adverse effect on our business and future operating performance. Moreover, a number of Native American tribes and gaming entrepreneurs are presently seeking to develop Class III casinos in New York and Connecticut in areas that are 90 miles from New York City such as Bridgeport, Connecticut and Southampton, New York. In November 2010, the Governor of the State of New York signed a compact with Stockbridge-Munsee Band to build a gaming complex in Bridgeville, New York, located approximately five miles from Monticello Casino and Raceway. On February 18, 2011, the USDOI disapproved the compact. On June 14, 2011, the USDOI Assistant Secretary-Indian Affairs, the head of the BIA, announced that he has rescinded a January 3, 2008, memo which said, among other things, that tribes could develop casinos on land off their reservations only if it was within “commutable distance” of the reservation which was considered by the USDOI to be approximately 40 miles. The requirements of the IGRA will continue to be applied by the BIA even though the “commutability” standard has been rescinded. Due to its proximity to Monticello Casino and Raceway, if developed, the Stockbridge-Munsee Band’s gaming facility, which would include a casino, hotel, restaurants and retail shops, would likely significantly increase the competition we face and have a material adverse effect on our business operations and future performance. 11 Table of Contents No assurance can be given that we will be able to compete successfully for gaming customers with the established casinos, in Pennsylvania, or the competing VGM facility at Yonkers Raceway. The continuing decline in the popularity of horse racing and increasing competition in simulcasting could adversely impact the business of Monticello Casino and Raceway. Since the mid-1980s, there has been a general decline in the number of people attending and wagering at live horse races at North American racetracks due to a number of factors, including increased competition from other forms of gaming, unwillingness of guests to travel a significant distance to racetracks and the increasing availability of off-track wagering. The declining attendance at live horse racing events has prompted racetracks to rely increasingly on revenues from inter-track, off-track and account wagering markets. The industry-wide focus on inter-track, off-track and account wagering markets has increased competition among racetracks for outlets to simulcast their live races. A continued decrease in attendance at live events and in on-track wagering, as well as increased competition in the inter-track, off-track and account wagering markets, could lead to a decrease in the amount wagered at Monticello Casino and Raceway. Our business plan anticipates the possibility of Monticello Casino and Raceway attracting new guests to our racetrack wagering operations through VGM in order to offset the general decline in raceway attendance. However, even if our VGM operations attract new guests to our racetrack, we may not be able to maintain profitable operations. Public tastes are unpredictable and subject to change. Any further decline in interest in horse racing or any change in public tastes may adversely affect our revenues and, therefore, limit our ability to make a positive contribution to our results of operation. We depend on our key personnel and the loss of their services would adversely affect our operations and business strategy. If we are unable to maintain our key personnel and attract new employees with high levels of expertise in the gaming areas in which we engage and propose to engage, or are unable to do so without unreasonably increasing our labor costs, the execution of our business strategy may be hindered and our growth limited. We believe that our success is largely dependent on the continued employment of our senior management and the hiring of strategic key personnel at reasonable costs. Competition for qualified executives is intense and we can give no assurance that we would be able to hire a qualified replacement with the required level of experience and expertise for any current members of our senior management, if required to do so. Accordingly, if any of our current senior managers were unable or unwilling to continue in his or her present position, or we were unable to attract a sufficient number of qualified employees at reasonable rates, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. Additionally, recruiting and hiring a replacement for any senior management position could divert the attention of other senior management and increase our operating expenses. Currently, full-scale casino gaming, other than Native American gaming, is not allowed in New York. There can be no assurance that the required amendment to the New York State Constitution will be passed in order to allow full-scale casino gaming, other than Native American gaming, in a timely manner, or at all. Currently, we are not permitted to operate a full-scale casino at Monticello Casino and Raceway because full-scale casino gaming, other than Native American gaming, is not allowed in New York. In order to operate a full-scale casino at Monticello Casino and Raceway, an amendment to the New York State Constitution to permit full-scale casino gaming would need to be passed or we would need to enter into an agreement with a Native American tribe for the development of a Class III casino. In January 2012, Governor Cuomo proposed an amendment to the New York State Constitution to permit casino gambling regulated by the state of New York. In order to be amended to permit full-scale casino gaming, the New York State Constitution requires the passage of legislation in two consecutive legislative sessions and then passage of the majority of the state’s voters in a statewide referendum. On March 15, 2012, Governor Andrew Cuomo, Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver and Senate Majority Leader Dean Skelos announced that a constitutional amendment authorizing up to seven non-tribal casinos at locations to be determined by the Legislature was approved by the Legislature. A newly elected Legislature would have to pass the amendment again next year before it goes to a general referendum in November 2013. There can be no assurance given that an amendment to the New York State Constitution to permit full-scale casino gaming will be passed in a timely manner, or at all. Moreover, if an amendment to the New York State Constitution to permit full-scale casino gaming were passed, there can be no assurance that we 12 Table of Contents would be able to secure any necessary licenses, regulatory approvals or financing arrangements necessary to develop a full-scale casino at Monticello Casino and Raceway or another location. In the event that full-scale casino gaming were permitted under an amendment to the New York State Constitution and we are unable to timely develop and successfully operate a full-scale casino at Monticello Casino and Raceway or another location to compete with any full-scale casinos or Class III casinos that may be developed by our competitors, our business and future operating performance would likely be materially adversely effected. On March 7, 2012, Concord filed a complaint against EPR and us seeking monetary damages and permanent injunctive relief against EPR and us relating to our joint development of the site of the EPT Property. This litigation may delay or alter our plans for the development. On March 7, 2012, Concord and various affiliates filed a complaint against EPR and us in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. The complaint alleges federal antitrust claims and claims of tortious interference with contract and business relations against us and seeks $1.5 billion in damages, unspecified punitive damages and permanent injunctive relief against EPR and us. Although we believe this lawsuit is without merit and we will aggressively defend our interests, it may delay or alter our plans to develop the site of the EPT Property with EPR. 13 Table of Contents Risk Relating to our Ownership Structure Stockholders’ ability to influence corporate decisions may be limited because our major stockholder owns a large percentage of our common stock. Kien Huat Realty III Limited (“Kien Huat”) is the beneficial holder of 18,254,246 shares of our common stock, representing approximately 60% of our voting power. Additionally, under the terms of an investment agreement with Kien Huat (the “Investment Agreement”), if any option or warrant outstanding as of November 12, 2009, the date of the final closing of the Investment Agreement, (or, in limited circumstances, if issued after such date) is exercised, Kien Huat has the right (following notice of such exercise) to purchase an equal number of additional shares of our common stock as are issued upon such exercise at the exercise price for the applicable option or warrant. The percentage of our outstanding shares of common stock and voting power owned by Kien Huat would not increase as a result of the purchase by Kien Huat of any shares of our common stock pursuant to such matching right, given the issuance of shares upon exercise of the option or warrant that triggered the matching right. Under the terms of the Investment Agreement, Kien Huat is also entitled to recommend three directors whom we are required to cause to be elected or appointed to our Board of Directors (“Board”), subject to the satisfaction of all legal and governance requirements regarding service as a director and to the reasonable approval of the Governance Committee of our Board. Kien Huat designated Au Fook Yew, Emanuel Pearlman and Joseph D’Amato as nominees to the Board pursuant to its rights under the Investment Agreement, all three of which were elected by the Company’s stockholders in December 2011. Kien Huat will continue to be entitled to recommend three directors for so long as it owns at least 24% of our voting power outstanding at such time, after which the number of directors whom Kien Huat will be entitled to designate for election to our Board will be reduced proportionally to Kien Huat’s percentage of ownership. Under the Investment Agreement, for so long as Kien Huat is entitled to designate representatives to our Board, among other things, Kien Huat will have the right to nominate one of its director designees to serve as the Chairman of the Board, and Mr. Pearlman has been appointed to serve as Chairman of the Board pursuant to Kien Huat’s recommendation. Until such time as Kien Huat ceases to own capital stock with at least 30% of our voting power outstanding at such time, our Board will be prohibited under the terms of the Investment Agreement from taking certain actions relating to fundamental transactions involving us and our subsidiaries and certain other matters without the affirmative vote of the directors designated by Kien Huat. Consequently, Kien Huat has the ability to exert significant influence over our policies and affairs, including the election of our Board and the approval of any action requiring a stockholder vote, such as approving amendments to our certificate of incorporation and mergers or sales of substantially all of our assets, as well as other matters. This concentration of voting power could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company on terms that other stockholders may desire or force the sale of our company on terms undesirable to other stockholders. Risks Relating to the Market Value of Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock is volatile, leading to the possibility of its value being depressed at a time when our stockholders want to sell their holdings. The market price of our common stock has in the past been, and may in the future continue to be, volatile. For instance, between January 1, 2010 and March 12, 2012, the closing price of our common stock has ranged between $7.26 and $1.30 per share. A variety of events may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly, including but not necessarily limited to: • quarter to quarter variations in operating results; • day traders; • adverse news announcements; and • market conditions for the gaming industry. 14 Table of Contents In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of companies, at times for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. These market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock and other interests in the Company at a time when our stockholders want to sell their interest in us. If we fail to meet the applicable continued listing requirements of NASDAQ Global Market, NASDAQ may delist our common stock, in which case the liquidity and market price of our common stock could decline. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. In order to maintain that listing, we must satisfy certain continued listing requirements. If we are deficient in maintaining the necessary listing requirements, our common stock may be delisted. If our stock is delisted, an active trading market for our common stock may not be sustained and the market price of our common stock could decline. We do not anticipate declaring any dividends in the foreseeable future. During the past two fiscal years, we did not declare or pay any cash dividends with respect to our common stock and we do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain all future earnings for use in the development of our business. In addition, the payment of cash dividends to the holders of our common stock is restricted by undeclared dividends on our Series E preferred stock. We have accumulated unpaid Series E preferred dividends of approximately $12.5 million as of December 31, 2011. There can be no assurance that we will have, at any time, sufficient surplus under Delaware law to be able to pay any dividends. Future sales of shares of our common stock in the public market or the conversion of the Bridge Loan from Kien Huat could adversely affect the trading price of shares of our common stock and our ability to raise funds in new stock offerings. Future sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock in the public market, the conversion of the Bridge Loan from Kien Huat into shares of our common stock, or the perception that such sales or conversion are likely to occur could affect the market price of our common stock. Kien Huat’s stock ownership may also discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could reduce our stock price or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over our stock price. General Business Risks Instability and volatility in the financial markets could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The demand for entertainment and leisure activities tends to be highly sensitive to consumers’ disposable incomes, and the recent economic recession that has affected the U.S. and global economies, the tightened credit markets and eroded consumer confidence had a negative impact on overall trends in the gaming industry in 2010 and, to an extent, in 2011. Discretionary consumer spending habits have been adversely affected by the recent economic crisis and the actual or perceived fear of the extent of the recession could lead to further decrease in spending by our guests. We cannot predict at what level these negative trends will continue, worsen or improve and the ultimate impact it will have on our future results of operations. The continued weakness in our market and the deterioration of the broader global economy would have a material adverse effect on our industry and our business, including our revenues, profitability, operating results and cash flow. Moreover, to the extent we do not generate sufficient cash flows from operations; we may need to incur additional indebtedness to finance our plans for growth or make scheduled payments on or to refinance our obligations under the Bridge Loan from Kien Huat. Recent turmoil in the credit markets and the resulting impact on the liquidity of certain large financial institutions has had, and may continue to have, an effect through the 15 Table of Contents U.S. economy, including limiting access to credit markets for certain borrowers at reasonable rates. Due to fluctuations in the credit markets from time to time, we may be unable to incur additional indebtedness to fund our business strategy, in the public or private markets, on terms we believe to be reasonable, if at all. We are subject to greater risks than a geographically diverse company. Our operations are limited to the Catskills region of the State of New York, which has been affected by decades’ long decline in economic conditions. As a result, in addition to our susceptibility to adverse global and domestic economic, political and business conditions, any economic downturn in the region could have a material adverse effect on our operations. An economic downturn would likely cause a decline in the disposable income of consumers in the region, which could result in a decrease in the number of patrons at our facility, the frequency of their visits and the average amount that they would be willing to spend at our facility. We are subject to greater risks than more geographically diversified gaming or resort operations, including: • a downturn in national, regional or local economic conditions; • an increase in competition in New York State or the northeastern United States and Canada, particularly for day-trip patrons residing in New York State, including as a result of any new tribal Class III casinos or VGMs at certain racetracks and other locations in New York, Connecticut and casinos in Pennsylvania; • impeded access due to road construction or closures of primary access routes; and • adverse weather and natural and other disasters in the northeastern United States. The occurrence of any one of the events described above could cause a material disruption in our business and make us unable to generate sufficient cash flow to make payments on our obligations. Our business is particularly sensitive to energy prices and a rise in energy prices could harm our operating results. We are a large consumer of electricity and other energy and, therefore, higher energy prices may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Accordingly, increases in energy costs may have a negative impact on our operating results. Additionally, higher electricity and gasoline prices which affect our customers may result in reduced visitation to Monticello Casino and Raceway and a reduction in our revenues. Our business could be affected by weather-related factors and seasonality. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by weather-related and seasonal factors. Severe winter weather conditions may deter or prevent patrons from reaching our gaming facilities or undertaking day trips. In addition, some recreational activities are curtailed during the winter months. Although our budget assumes these seasonal fluctuations in our gaming revenues to ensure adequate cash flow during expected periods of lower revenues, we cannot ensure that weather-related and seasonal factors will not have a material adverse effect on our operations. We are vulnerable to natural disasters and other disruptive events that could severely disrupt the normal operations of our business and adversely affect our earnings. Our operations are located at a facility in Monticello, New York. Although this area is not prone to earthquakes, floods, tornados, fires or other natural disasters, the occurrence of any of these events or any other cause of material disruption in our operation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Moreover, although we do maintain insurance customary for our industry, including a policy with $10 million limit of coverage for the perils of flood and earthquake, we cannot ensure that this coverage will be sufficient in the event of one of the disasters mentioned above. 16 Table of Contents We may be subject to material environmental liability as a result of unknown environmental hazards. We currently own 232 acres of land. As a significant landholder, we are subject to numerous environmental laws. Specifically, under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases on or relating to its property and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury and for investigation and cleanup costs incurred by such parties in connection with the contamination. Such laws typically impose cleanup responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner knew of or caused the presence of contaminants. The costs of investigation, remediation or removal of such substances may be substantial. Potential changes in the regulatory environment could harm our business. From time to time, legislators and special interest groups have proposed legislation that would expand, restrict or prevent gaming operations in the jurisdictions in which we operate or intend to operate. In addition, from time to time, certain anti-gaming groups propose referenda that, if adopted, could force us to curtail operations and incur significant losses. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 