Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Relating to our Business If our proposed rights offering is not consummated or we are not able to obtain alternative financing, we may not have an immediate source of repayment when due to satisfy our obligations under the Bridge Loan from Kien Huat. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon the consummation of our proposed rights offering and/or our ability to arrange alternative financing to fulfill our obligations under the Loan Agreement, dated November 17, 2010, with Kien Huat, our largest stockholder, pursuant to which Kien Huat agreed to make, and made, the Bridge Loan to us in the principal amount of $35 million. The Bridge Loan matures on the earlier of the consummation of the proposed rights offering and June 30, 2011. In the event the proposed rights offering has not been completed on or before June 30, 2011, we may extend the maturity date of the Bridge Loan to September 30, 2011, during which time interest would accrue at a rate of 10% per annum. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain a source of fi nancing on terms acceptable to us, if at all, to satisfy our indebtedness to Kien Huat under the Bridge Loan in the event that the proposed rights offering is not completed or is consummated but less than all the subscription rights are exercised. Moreover, in the event that the proposed rights offering is completed before June 30, 2011 but the proceeds of the proposed rights offering are insufficient to repay in full our indebtedness to Kien Huat under the Bridge Loan, together with accrued interest thereon, the maturity date of the remaining unpaid principal amount of the Bridge Loan will, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, be extended for a term of two years at an interest rate of 5% per annum. There can be no assurance that we will have funds available or be able to obtain a source of financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all, to satisfy any remaining unpaid principal outstanding under the Bridge Loan when due. Additionally, future efforts to arrange alternative financing to fulfill our obligations under the Bridge Loan may involve the issuance of additional shares of our capital stock, which may dilute stockholder investment. 8 Index Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued a “going concern” opinion raising substantial doubt about our financial viability. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a basis that contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business. Uncertainty regarding our ability to satisfy our indebtedness when due and our continuing net losses and negative cash flows from operating activities caused our independent registered public accounting firm to include an explanatory paragraph in their report dated March 18, 2011 regarding their concerns about our ability to continue as a going concern. Substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern may create negative reactions to the price of shares of our common stock and we may have a more difficult time obtaining financing to the extent necessary. If we are not able to continue as a going concern, it is likely that our stockholders will lose their investment. We will require additional financing in order to develop any projects and we may be unable to meet our future capital requirements and execute our business strategy. Because we are unable to generate sufficient cash from our operations, we will be required to rely on external financing to develop any future projects. Any projections of future cash needs and cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. Our capital requirements depend upon several factors, including the rate of market acceptance, our ability to expand our customer base and increase revenues, our level of expenditures for marketing and sales, purchases of equipment and other factors. If our capital requirements vary materially from those currently planned, we may require additional financing sooner than anticipated. We can make no assurance that financing will be available in amounts or on acceptable terms, if at all. If we cannot raise funds, if needed, on acceptable terms, we may be required to delay, scale back or eliminate some of our expansion and development goals and we may not be able to continue our operations, grow market share, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements, which could negatively impact our business, operating results and financial condition. If revenues and operating income from our operations at Monticello Casino and Raceway do not increase or if we do not expand our current facility and operations it could adversely affect our financial performance. There can be no assurance that our operations will draw sufficient crowds to Monticello Casino and Raceway to increase our revenues to the point that we will realize a profit. The operations and placement of our VGMs, including the layout and distribution, are under the jurisdiction of the NYL and the program contemplates that a significant share of the responsibility for marketing the program will be borne by the NYL. The NYL is not required to make decisions that we feel are in our best interest and, as a consequence, the profitability of our VGM operations may not reach the levels that we believe to be feasible or may be slower than expected in reaching those levels. Our VGM operations have historically been insufficient to repay the entire principal amount of our indebtedness, as we were only permi tted to retain 32% of the first $50 million of our VGM revenue, 29% of the next $100 million of our VGM revenue and 26% of our VGM gross revenue in excess of $150 million. Although new legislation was passed in 2008 that increased our share of VGM revenue, permitting us to retain 42% of gross VGM revenue for a period of five years that began on April 1, 2008 and, following such five-year period, permitting us to retain 40% of the first $50 million, 29% of the next $100 million and 26% thereafter, no assurance can be given that such increased revenue will be sufficient to support our ability to service our outstanding debt. Additionally, effective August 4, 2010, legislation was passed to reduce operator fees by one percentage point at each level of VGM revenues, which we anticipate resulting in an annual cost to us of approximately $550,000 to $600,000. Similarly, the proposed hospitality and entertainment expansion of our current facility and operations is subject to many re gulatory, competitive, economic and business risks beyond our control, and there can be no assurance that an expansion of our existing facilities will be developed in a timely manner, or at all. Any failure in this regard could have a material adverse impact on our operations and our ability to service our debt obligations. 9 Index As a holding company, we are dependent on the operations of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions in order to generate internal cash flow. We are a holding company with no revenue generating operations. Consequently, our ability to meet our working capital requirements and to service our debt obligations depends on the earnings and the distribution of funds from our subsidiaries. There can be no assurance that these subsidiaries will generate sufficient revenue to make cash distributions in an amount necessary for us to satisfy our working capital requirements or our obligations under any current or future indebtedness, including our obligations under the Bridge Loan from Kien Huat in the event that the proceeds of the proposed rights offering are not sufficient to repay all indebtedness thereunder. In addition, these subsidiaries may enter into contracts that limit or prohibit their ability to pay dividends or make distributions. 160;Should our subsidiaries be unable to pay dividends or make distributions, our ability to meet our ongoing obligations would be jeopardized. Specifically, without the payment of dividends or the making of distributions, we would be unable to pay our employees, accounting professionals or legal professionals, all of whom we rely on to manage our operations, ensure regulatory compliance and sustain our public company status. Changes in the laws, regulations, and ordinances (including tribal and/or local laws) to which the gaming industry is subject, and the application or interpretation of existing laws and regulations, or our inability or the inability of our key personnel, significant stockholders, or joint venture partners to obtain or retain required gaming regulatory licenses, could prevent us from pursuing future development projects, force us to divest the holdings of a stockholder found unsuitable by any federal, state, regional or tribal governmental body or otherwise adversely impact our results of operation. The ownership, management and operation of our current and any future gaming facilities are and will be subject to extensive federal, state, provincial, tribal and/or local laws, regulations and ordinances that are administered by the relevant regulatory agency or agencies in each jurisdiction. These laws, regulations and ordinances vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally concern the responsibilities, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations, and often require such parties to obtain certain licenses, permits and approvals. These laws, regulations and ordinances may also affect the operations of our gaming facilities or our plans in pursuing future projects. Licenses that we and our officers, directors and principal stockholders are subject to generally expire after a relatively short period of time and thus require frequent renewals and reevaluations. Obtaining these licenses in the first place, and for purposes of renewals, normally involves receiving a subjective determination of “suitability.” A finding of unsuitability could lead to a material loss of investment by either us or our stockholders, as it would require divestiture of one’s direct or indirect interest in a gaming operator that conducts business in the licensing jurisdiction making the determination of unsuitability. Consequently, should we or any stockholder ever be found to be unsuitable to own a direct or indirect interest in a company with gaming operations by the fede ral government or the State of New York, we or such stockholder, as the case may be, could be forced to liquidate all interests in that entity. Should either we or such stockholder be forced to liquidate these interests within a relatively short period of time, we or such stockholder would likely be forced to sell at a discount, causing a material loss of investment value. During 2002, certain affiliates of Bryanston Group, Inc. (“Bryanston Group”), our former largest stockholder, and certain of our other stockholders were indicted for various counts of tax and bank fraud. On September 5, 2003, one of these stockholders pleaded guilty to felony tax fraud, and on February 4, 2004, four additional stockholders were convicted of tax and bank fraud. None of the acts these individuals were charged with or convicted of relate to their ownership interests in us and their remaining interests do not provide them with any significant control in the management of the Company. However, there can be no assurance that none of the various governmental agencies that now, or in the future may, regulate and license our gaming related activities will factor in these indictments or criminal acts in evaluating our suitability. Should a regulatory agency fail to acknowledge that these indictments and convictions do not bear on our suitability, we could lose our gaming licenses or be forced to liquidate certain or all of our gaming interests. 10 Index We received a letter from the New York State Racing and Wagering Board on January 5, 2010, requesting updated information about our plans to divest Bryanston Group and its affiliates of their remaining interests in us. In response, we informed the New York State Racing and Wagering Board that we were in the process of engaging an investment banking firm, which we engaged in March 2010, to explore our options with respect to the restructuring of our debt and other obligations, including our Series E Preferred Stock. The engagement with the investment banking firm was terminated following our receipt of the Bridge Loan and we have not currently retained any third party advisors with respect to the Series E Preferred Stock. According to the terms of our Series E Preferred Stock, we have the option to rede em these shares at a price of $10 per share plus all accrued and unpaid dividends. The cost of redeeming these shares, as of December 31, 2010, was approximately $28.5 million. We may not be able to obtain sufficient financing in amounts or on terms that are acceptable to us in order to redeem all of these shares, should this be required. The gaming industry in the northeastern United States is highly competitive, with many of our competitors better known and better financed than us. The gaming industry in the northeastern United States is highly competitive and increasingly dominated by multinational corporations or Native American tribes that enjoy widespread name recognition, established brand loyalty, decades of casino operation experience, and a diverse portfolio of gaming assets and substantially greater financial resources. Atlantic City, the second most popular gaming destination in the United States, with 11 full service hotel casinos, is approximately a two hour drive from New York City and the highly popular Foxwoods Resort and Casino and the Mohegan Sun casino are each only two and a half hour drives from New York City. We face significant competition for our VGM operations from Yonkers Raceway and expect additional competition from Aqueduct Race Track, both of which are located within the New York City metropolitan area. The Yonkers facility, which is much closer to New York City, has a harness horseracing facility, approximately 5,300 VGMs, food and beverage outlets and other amenities. In September 2010, a contract with Genting New York, LLC was approved for the development and operation of 4,500 VGMs at Aqueduct Racetrack. The first phase of the Aqueduct gaming facility is expected to begin with the operation of 2,500 VGMs in the third quarter of 2011 with a second phase to be completed in 2012 which is expected to have all 4,500 VGMs in operation a s well as food and beverage outlets and other amenities. In contrast, we have limited financial resources and currently operate only a harness horse racing facility and VGMs in Monticello, New York, which is approximately a one and a half hour drive from New York City. Additionally, in January 2010, the Pennsylvania legislature authorized and its Governor approved table games in its existing slot-machine facilities, which amended and augmented the legislation passed in July 2004 in which Pennsylvania legalized the operation of up to 61,000 slot machines at 14 locations throughout the state to permit table games at the slot-machine facilities. The legislation authorized all table games, including blackjack, craps, roulette, baccarat, and poker at thoroughbred and harness racetracks with slot-machine facilities and stand-alone slot-machine facilities, and the granting of credit to guests of the Pennsylvania casinos. Table games became operational in Pennsylvania’s casinos in July 2010. Presently approximately 850 table games, including poker tables, are offered at the Pennsylvania cas inos. Both Pennsylvania casinos that we compete against have installed and offer table games. As of March 2011, there were ten casinos in operation within Pennsylvania, with six located at race tracks. One such race track facility is the Mohegan Sun at Pocono Downs, which has approximately 2,400 slot machines and 84 table games, including 18 poker tables. The Mohegan Sun at Pocono Downs opened in November 2006 in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, approximately 75 miles southwest of Monticello. In addition, in October 2007, the Mount Airy Casino Resort opened with approximately 2,500 slot machines, a hotel, spa, and a golf course; and in July 2010 it began the operation of table games and now operates 72 table games, which includes 11 poker tables. The Mount Airy Casino Resort is located in Mount Pocono, Pennsylvania, approximately 60 miles southwest of Monticello. The development of new ca sinos and slot machine facilities and the introduction of table games at existing harness racetracks and casinos in Pennsylvania will likely increase the degree of competition within our market and may have an adverse effect on our business and future operating performance. Moreover, a number of Native American tribes and gaming entrepreneurs are presently seeking to develop casinos in New York and Connecticut in areas that are 90 miles from New York City such as Bridgeport, Connecticut and Southampton, New York. In November 2010, the Governor of the State of New York signed a compact with Stockbridge-Munsee Band to build a gaming complex in Bridgeville, New York, located approximately five miles from Monticello Casino and Raceway. On February 18, 2011, the USDOI disapproved the compact. However, due to its proximity to Monticello Casino and Raceway, if developed, the Stockbridge-Munsee Band’s gaming facility, which would include a casino, hotel, restaurants and retail shops, would likely significantly increase the competition we face and have a material adverse aff ect on our business operations and future performance. 11 Index No assurance can be given that we will be able to compete successfully for gaming customers with the established Atlantic City casinos, existing and proposed regional Native American casinos, slot machine facilities and table games facilities in Pennsylvania and New Jersey, competing VGM facilities at Yonkers Raceway and Aqueduct Racetrack. The continuing decline in the popularity of horse racing and increasing competition in simulcasting could adversely impact the business of Monticello Casino and Raceway. Since the mid-1980s, there has been a general decline in the number of people attending and wagering at live horse races at North American racetracks due to a number of factors, including increased competition from other forms of gaming, unwillingness of guests to travel a significant distance to racetracks and the increasing availability of off-track wagering. The declining attendance at live horse racing events has prompted racetracks to rely increasingly on revenues from inter-track, off-track and account wagering markets. The industry-wide focus on inter-track, off-track and account wagering markets has increased competition among racetracks for outlets to simulcast their live races. A continued decrease in attendance at live events and in on-track wagering, as well as increased competition in the inter-track, off-track and account wagering markets, could lead to a decrease in the amount wagered at Monticello Casino and Raceway. Our business plan anticipates the possibility of Monticello Casino and Raceway attracting new guests to our racetrack wagering operations through VGM operations and a proposed expansion in order to offset the general decline in raceway attendance. However, even if the numerous arrangements, approvals and legislative changes necessary for the proposed expansion of our Monticello Casino and Raceway facility occur, we may not be able to maintain profitable operations. Public tastes are unpredictable and subject to change. Any further decline in interest in horse racing or any change in public tastes may adversely affect our revenues and, therefore, limit our ability to make a positive contribution to our results. We depend on our key personnel and the loss of their services would adversely affect our operations and business strategy. If we are unable to maintain our key personnel and attract new employees with high levels of expertise in those gaming areas in which we propose to engage, without unreasonably increasing our labor costs, the execution of our business strategy may be hindered and our growth limited. We believe that our success is largely dependent on the continued employment of our senior management and the hiring of strategic key personnel at reasonable costs. Competition for qualified executives is intense and we can give no assurance that we would be able to hire a qualified replacement with the required level of experience and expertise for any current members of our senior management, if required to do so. Accordingly, if any of our current senior managers were unable or unwilling to continue in his or her present position, or we were unable to attract a sufficient number of qualified employees at reasonable rates, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. Additionally, recruiting and hiring a replacement for any senior management position could divert the attention of other senior management and increase our operating expenses. Substantial leverage and debt service obligations may adversely affect our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. We may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Our level of indebtedness will have several important effects on our future operations, including, without limitation: · a portion of our cash flow from operations will be dedicated to the payment of any interest or principal required with respect to outstanding indebtedness; · increases in our outstanding indebtedness and leverage will increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as to competitive pressure; and · depending on the levels of our outstanding indebtedness, our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, general corporate and other purposes may be limited. 12 Index Our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which is subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. Our business might not continue to generate cash flow at or above current levels. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required, among other things, to: · seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; · refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness, including any amounts that remain unpaid following the proposed rights offering under the Bridge Loan from Kien Huat; or · sell selected assets. Such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness. In addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Currently, Class III casino gaming, other than Native American gaming, is not allowed in New York. There can be no assurance that the required amendment to the New York State Constitution will be passed in order to allow Class III casino gaming, other than Native American gaming, in a timely manner, or at all. Currently, we are not permitted to operate a Class III casino at Monticello Casino and Raceway because Class III casino gaming, other than Native American gaming, is not allowed in New York. In order to operate a Class III casino at Monticello Casino and Raceway, an amendment to the New York State Constitution to permit Class III casino gaming would need to be passed or we would need to enter into an agreement with a Native American tribe for the development of such a Class III casino. In order to be amended to permit Class III casino gaming, the New York State Constitution requires the passage of legislation in two consecutive legislative sessions and then passage of the majority of the state's voters in a statewide referendum. There can be no assurance given that an amendment to the New York State Co nstitution to permit Class III casino gaming will be passed in a timely manner, or at all. Moreover, if an amendment to the New York State Constitution to permit Class III casino gaming were passed, there can be no assurance that we would be able to secure any necessary licenses, regulatory approvals or financing arrangements necessary to develop a Class III casino at Monticello Casino and Raceway or another location. In the event that Class III casino gaming were permitted under an amendment to the New York State Constitution and we are unable to timely develop and successfully operate a Class III casino at Monticello Casino and Raceway or another location to compete with any Class III casinos that may be developed by our competitors, our business and future operating performance would likely be materially adversely effected. We will require additional financing in order to develop an expansion of our existing Monticello Casino and Raceway facility or other projects and we may be unable to meet our future capital requirements and execute our business strategy. Because we are unable to generate sufficient cash from our operations, we will be forced to rely on external financing to develop the proposed hospitality and entertainment expansion to our existing Monticello Casino and Raceway facility or other projects and to meet future capital and operating requirements. Any projections of future cash needs and cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. Our capital requirements depend upon several factors, including the rate of market acceptance, our ability to expand our customer base and increase revenues, our level of expenditures for marketing and sales, purchases of equipment and other factors. If our capital requirements vary materially from those currently planned, we may require additional financing sooner than anticipated. W e can make no assurance that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Further, if we issue equity securities, stockholders may experience additional dilution or the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of our common stock, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants which could restrict our operations or finances. If we cannot raise funds, if needed, on acceptable terms, we may be required to delay, scale back or eliminate some of our expansion and development goals related to our Monticello Casino and Raceway facility and we may not be able to continue our operations, grow market share, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements which could negatively impact our business, operating results and financial condition. 13 Index Risk Relating to our Ownership Structure Stockholders’ ability to influence corporate decisions may be limited because our major stockholder owns a large percentage of our common stock. Kien Huat is the beneficial holder of 34,936,357 shares of our common stock, representing approximately 50.3% of our presently outstanding shares of our common stock, which represents just less than 50.0% of our voting power. Additionally, under the terms of an investment agreement with Kien Huat (the “Investment Agreement”), if any option or warrant outstanding as of November 12, 2009, the date of the final closing of the Investment Agreement, (or, in limited circumstances, if issued after such date) is exercised, Kien Huat has the right (following notice of such exercise) to purchase an equal number of additional shares of our common stock as are issued upon such exercise at the exercise price for the applicable option or warrant. The percentage of our outstanding shares of common stock and voting p ower owned by Kien Huat would not increase as a result of the purchase by Kien Huat of any shares of our common stock pursuant to such matching right, given the issuance of shares upon exercise of the option or warrant that triggered the matching right. Under the terms of the Investment Agreement, Kien Huat is also entitled to recommend three directors whom we are required to cause to be elected or appointed to our Board of Directors (“Board”), subject to the satisfaction of all legal and governance requirements regarding service as a director and to the reasonable approval of the Governance Committee of our Board. Kien Huat has designated Au Fook Yew, Emanuel Pearlman and Joseph D'Amato as members of the Board pursuant to its rights under the Investment Agreement. Kien Huat will continue to be entitled to recommend three directors for so long as it owns at least 24% of our voting power outstanding at such time, after which the number of directors whom Kien Huat w ill be entitled to designate for election or appointment to our Board will be reduced proportionally to Kien Huat’s percentage of ownership. Under the Investment Agreement, for so long as Kien Huat is entitled to designate representatives to our Board, among other things, Kien Huat will have the right to nominate one of its director designees to serve as the Chairman of the Board, and Mr. Pearlman has been appointed to serve as Chairman of the Board pursuant to Kien Huat’s recommendation. Until such time as Kien Huat ceases to own capital stock with at least 30% of our voting power outstanding at such time, our Board will be prohibited under the terms of the Investment Agreement from taking certain actions relating to fundamental transactions involving us and our subsidiaries and certain other matters without the affirmative vote of the directors designated by Kien Huat. Consequently, Kien Huat has and, upon its exercise of subscription rights in the rights offeri ng, will continue to have the ability to exert significant influence over our policies and affairs, including the election of our Board and the approval of any action requiring a stockholder vote, such as approving amendments to our certificate of incorporation and mergers or sales of substantially all of our assets, as well as other matters. The interests of Kien Huat may differ from the interests of our other stockholders in some respects, which may lead to stockholder votes that are inconsistent with other stockholders’ best interests or the best interest of us as a whole. This concentration of voting power could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company on terms that other stockholders may desire. Risks Relating to the Market Value of Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock is volatile, leading to the possibility of its value being depressed at a time when our stockholders want to sell their holdings. The market price of our common stock has in the past been, and may in the future continue to be, volatile. For instance, between January 1, 2008 and March 17, 2011, the closing price of our common stock has ranged between $4.51 and $0.40 per share. A variety of events may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly, including but not necessarily limited to: · quarter to quarter variations in operating results; · adverse news announcements; and · market conditions for the gaming industry. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of companies, at times for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. These market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock and other interests in the Company at a time when our stockholders want to sell their interest in us. 14 Index If we fail to meet the minimum closing bid price requirement and all other applicable continued listing requirements of The Nasdaq Global Market, Nasdaq may delist our common stock, in which case the liquidity and market price of our common stock could decline. Our common stock is currently listed on The Nasdaq Global Market. In order to maintain that listing, we must satisfy certain continued listing requirements, including a requirement that our common stock maintain a minimum closing bid price of at least $1.00 per share. On February 14, 2011, we received notice from Nasdaq that, because the closing bid price for our common stock had fallen below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive business days, we no longer comply with the minimum bid price requirement for continued listing on the Nasdaq Global Market. In accordance with the Nasdaq Marketplace Rules, we have been provided an initial compliance period of 180 calendar days, or until August 15, 2011, to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. To regain compliance, the closing bid price of o ur common stock must meet or exceed $1.00 per share for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days prior to August 15, 2011. If we do not regain compliance by August 15, 2011, we may be eligible for an additional grace period if we satisfy certain conditions, including applying to transfer the listing of our common stock to the Nasdaq Capital Market and satisfying the listing standards for the Nasdaq Capital Market, with the exception of the minimum bid price requirement. If the Nasdaq staff determines that we would not be able to cure the minimum bid price deficiency, or if we are otherwise not eligible for such additional compliance period, Nasdaq will provide notice that our common stock will be subject to delisting. We would have the right to appeal a determination to delist our common stock, and the common stock would remain listed on the Nasdaq Global Market until the completion of the appeal process. We are considering actions that we may take in response to this notifi cation in order to regain compliance with the continued listing requirements, but there can be no assurance that we will be successful in regaining compliance with Nasdaq’s minimum closing bid price requirement. If our stock is delisted, an active trading market for our common stock may not be sustained and the market price of our common stock could decline. In addition, the delisting of our common stock could also constitute a breach of our Loan Agreement with Kien Huat, which would, subject to any applicable cure periods, accelerate the entire amount of the Bridge Loan. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain a source of financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all, to satisfy our indebtedness to Kien Huat under the Bridge Loan if required to do so upon acceleration thereof. We do not anticipate declaring any dividends in the foreseeable future. During the past two fiscal years, we did not declare or pay any cash dividends with respect to our common stock and we do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain all future earnings for use in the development of our business. In addition, the payment of cash dividends to the holders of our common stock is restricted by undeclared dividends on our Series E preferred stock. We have accumulated unpaid Series E preferred dividends of approximately $11.2 million as of December 31, 2010. There can be no assurance that we will have, at any time, sufficient surplus under Delaware law to be able to pay any dividends. Since our stock is classified as “penny stock,” the restrictions of the Security and Exchange Commission’s penny stock regulations may result in less liquidity for our stock. The Commission has adopted regulations which define a “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price (as therein defined) of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transactions involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require the delivery, prior to any transaction involving a penny stock by a retail customer, of a disclosure schedule prepared by the Commission relating to the penny stock market. Disclosure is also required to be made about commissions payable to both the broker/dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. Finally, monthly statements are required to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Because the market price for shares of our common stock is less than $5.00, and we do not satisfy any of the exceptions to the Commission’s definition of penny stock, our common stock is classified as penny stock. As a result of the penny stock restrictions, brokers or potential investors may be reluctant to trade in our securities, which may result in less liquidity for our stock. 15 Index Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage unsolicited takeover proposals and could prevent stockholders from realizing a premium return on their investment in our common stock. Pursuant to our certificate of incorporation, our Board has the authority, without further action by the stockholders, to issue up to 3,225,045 shares of preferred stock on such terms and with such rights, preferences and designations, including, without limitation, restricting dividends on our common stock, diluting our common stock’s voting power and impairing the liquidation rights of the holders of our common stock, as our Board may determine. Issuance of such preferred stock, depending upon its rights, preferences and designations, may also have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control. This may have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. We may submit, from time to time, proposals to our stockholders to amend our certificate of incorporation or to increase the number of common shares authorized. At a special meeting of our stockholders held on February 16, 2011, our stockholders approved an amendment to our Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, to increase our authorized capital stock from 100,000,000 shares, consisting of 95,000,000 shares of common stock and 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, to a total of 155,000,000 shares, consisting of 150,000,000 shares of common stock and 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock in order to have a sufficient number of shares of common stock to complete the proposed rights offering and to provide a reserve of shares available for issuance to meet business needs as they may arise in the future. Such business needs may include, without limitation, rights offerings, financings, acquisitions, establishing strategic relationships with corporate partners, providing equity incentives to empl oyees, officers or directors, stock splits or similar transactions. Issuances of any additional shares for these or other reasons could prove dilutive to current stockholders or deter changes in control of the Company, including transactions where the stockholders could otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. Future sales of shares of our common stock in the public market or the conversion of the Bridge Loan from Kien Huat could adversely affect the trading price of shares of our common stock and our ability to raise funds in new stock offerings. Future sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock in the public market, the conversion of the Bridge Loan from Kien Huat into shares of our common stock, or the perception that such sales or conversion are likely to occur could affect the market price of our common stock. Kien Huat’s stock ownership may also discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could reduce our stock price or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over our stock price. In the event that the proceeds from the proposed rights offering are insufficient to repay our indebtedness to Kien Huat in full and we have not otherwise prepaid such indebtedness in full, the maturity date of the remaining unpaid principal amount of the Bridge Loa n from Kien Huat will, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, be extended following the completion of the proposed rights offering for a term of two years at an interest rate of 5% per annum and the Bridge Loan will become convertible at a conversion rate equal to the subscription price in the proposed rights offering of $0.8837 per share. Furthermore, we may be required to issue additional shares of our common stock to Kien Huat pursuant to certain option matching rights granted to Kien Huat at less than the then-existing market price, which could reduce the price per share of shares held by existing stockholders. General Business Risks Instability and volatility in the financial markets could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The demand for entertainment and leisure activities tends to be highly sensitive to consumers' disposable incomes, and the recent economic recession that has affected the U.S. and global economies, the tightened credit markets and eroded consumer confidence had a negative impact on overall trends in the gaming industry in 2009 and, to an extent, in 2010. Discretionary consumer spending habits have been adversely affected by the recent economic crisis and the actual or perceived fear of the extent of the recession could lead to further decrease in spending by our guests. We cannot predict at what level these negative trends will continue, worsen or improve and the ultimate impact it will have on our future results of operations. The continued weakness in our market and the deterioration of the broader global economy would have a material adverse effect on our industry and our business, including our revenues, profitability, operating results and cash flow. 16 Index Moreover, to the extent we do not generate sufficient cash flows from operations, we may need to incur additional indebtedness to finance our plans for growth or make scheduled payments on or to refinance our obligations under the Notes. Recent turmoil in the credit markets and the resulting impact on the liquidity of certain large financial institutions has had, and may continue to have, an effect through the U.S. economy, including limiting access to credit markets for certain borrowers at reasonable rates. Due to fluctuations in the credit markets from time to time, we may be unable to incur additional indebtedness to fund our business strategy, in the public or private markets, on terms we believe to be reasonable, if at all. Terrorism and the Uncertainty of War May Harm Our Operating Results. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 and the after-effects (including the prospects for more terror attacks in the United States and abroad), combined with recent economic trends and the U.S.-led military action in Afghanistan and Iraq had a negative impact on various regions of the United States and on a wide range of industries, including, in particular, the hospitality industry. In particular, the terrorist attacks, as well as the United States war on terrorism, may have an unpredictable effect on general economic conditions and may harm our future results of operations as they may engender apprehension in people who would otherwise be inclined to travel to destination resort areas like the Catskills region of the State of New York. Moreover, in the future, fears of recession, war and additional acts of terrorism may continue to impact the U.S. economy and could negatively impact our business. We are subject to greater risks than a geographically diverse company. Our operations are limited to the Catskills region of the State of New York, which has been affected by a decades long decline in economic conditions. As a result, in addition to our susceptibility to adverse global and domestic economic, political and business conditions, any economic downturn in the region could have a material adverse effect on our operations. An economic downturn would likely cause a decline in the disposable income of consumers in the region, which could result in a decrease in the number of patrons at our facility, the frequency of their visits and the average amount that they would be willing to spend at our facility. We are subject to greater risks than more geographically diversified gaming or resort operations and may continue to be subject to these risks upon completion of o ur expansion projects, including: · a downturn in national, regional or local economic conditions; · an increase in competition in New York State or the northeastern United States and Canada, particularly for day-trip patrons residing in New York State, including as a result of any new Class III tribal casinos or VGMs at certain racetracks and other locations in New York, Connecticut and casinos in Pennsylvania; · impeded access due to road construction or closures of primary access routes; and · adverse weather and natural and other disasters in the northeastern United States. The occurrence of any one of the events described above could cause a material disruption in our business and make us unable to generate sufficient cash flow to make payments on our obligations. Our business is particularly sensitive to energy prices and a rise in energy prices could harm our operating results. We are a large consumer of electricity and other energy and, therefore, higher energy prices may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Accordingly, increases in energy costs may have a negative impact on our operating results. Additionally, higher electricity and gasoline prices which affect our customers may result in reduced visitation to Monticello Casino and Raceway and a reduction in our revenues. Our business could be affected by weather-related factors and seasonality. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by weather-related and seasonal factors. Severe winter weather conditions may deter or prevent patrons from reaching our gaming facilities or undertaking day trips. In addition, some recreational activities are curtailed during the winter months. Although our budget assumes these seasonal fluctuations in our gaming revenues to ensure adequate cash flow during expected periods of lower revenues, we cannot ensure that weather-related and seasonal factors will not have a material adverse effect on our operations. 17 Index We are vulnerable to natural disasters and other disruptive events that could severely disrupt the normal operations of our business and adversely affect our earnings. Our operations are located at a facility in Monticello, New York. Although this area is not prone to earthquakes, floods, tornados, fires or other natural disasters, the occurrence of any of these events or any other cause of material disruption in our operation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Moreover, although we do maintain insurance customary for our industry, including a policy with $10 million limit of coverage for the perils of flood and earthquake, we cannot ensure that this coverage will be sufficient in the event of one of the disasters mentioned above. We may be subject to material environmental liability as a result of unknown environmental hazards. We currently own 232 acres of land. As a significant landholder, we are subject to numerous environmental laws. Specifically, under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases on or relating to its property and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury and for investigation and cleanup costs incurred by such parties in connection with the contamination. Such laws typically impose cleanup responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner knew of or caused the presence of contaminants. The costs of investigation, remediation or removal of such substances may be substantial. Potential changes in the regulatory environment could harm our business. From time to time, legislators and special interest groups have proposed legislation that would expand, restrict or prevent gaming operations in the jurisdictions in which we operate or intend to operate. In addition, from time to time, certain anti-gaming groups propose referenda that, if adopted, could force us to curtail operations and incur significant losses. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 