ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS IF REVENUES AND OPERATING INCOME FROM OUR VGMS AT MONTICELLO RACEWAY DO NOT INCREASE OR IF WE ARE UNABLE TO DEVELOPA SUCCESSFUL INDIAN CASINO, IT COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO SERVICE OUR OUTSTANDING DEBT. Our ability to service our senior secured convertible notes or loans under our credit facility with Bank of Scotland will depend upon the success of our VGM facility, our ability to successfully develop and manage an Indian casino for the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe and our ability to attract sufficient attendance. There can be no assurance that VGMs will draw sufficiently large crowds to Monticello Raceway to increase local wagering to the point that we will realize a profit. The operations and placement of our VGMs, including the layout and distribution, are under the jurisdiction of the New York State Lottery and the program contemplates that a significant share of the responsibility for marketing the program will be borne by the New York State Lottery. The New York State Lottery may make decisions that we feel are not in our best interest and, as a consequence, the profitability of our VGM operations may not reach the levels that we believe to be feasible or may be slower than expected in reaching those levels. Until recently, our VGM operations were losing money, as we are only permitted to retain 32% of the first $50 million of our VGM revenue, 29% of the next $100 million of our VGM revenue and 26% our VGM gross revenue in excess of $150 million. Moreover, the legislation authorizing the implementation of VGMs at Monticello Raceway expires in 2013, prior to the stated maturity of our senior secured notes, and no assurance can be given that the authorizing legislation will be extended beyond this period. Similarly, the development of our proposed Indian casino is subject to many regulatory, competitive, economic and business risks beyond our control, and there can be no assurance that it will be developed in a timely manner, or at all. Any failure in this regard could have a material adverse impact on our operations and our ability to service our debt obligations. AS A HOLDING COMPANY, WE ARE DEPENDENT ON THE OPERATIONS OF OUR SUBSIDIARIES TO PAY DIVIDENDS OR MAKE DISTRIBUTIONS IN ORDER TO GENERATE INTERNAL CASH FLOW. We are a holding company with no revenue generating operations. Consequently, our ability to meet our working capital requirements, to service our debt obligations (including under our senior secured notes or the Bank of Scotland credit facility), depends on the earnings and the distribution of funds from our subsidiaries. There can be no assurance that these subsidiaries will generate enough revenue to make cash distributions in an amount necessary for us to satisfy our working capital requirements or our obligations under our senior secured notes or the Bank of Scotland credit facility. In addition, these subsidiaries may enter into contracts that limit or prohibit their ability to pay dividends or make distributions. Should our subsidiaries be unable to pay dividends or make distributions, our ability to meet our ongoing obligations would be jeopardized. Specifically, without the payment of dividends or the making of distributions, we would be unable to pay our employees, accounting professionals or legal professionals, all of whom we rely on to manage our operations, ensure regulatory compliance and sustain our public company status. CHANGES IN THE LAWS, REGULATIONS, AND ORDINANCES (INCLUDING TRIBAL AND/OR LOCAL LAWS) TO WHICH THE GAMING INDUSTRY IS SUBJECT, AND THE APPLICATION OF EXISTING LAWS AND REGULATIONS, OR OUR INABILITY OR THE INABILITY OF OUR KEY PERSONNEL, SIGNIFICANT STOCKHOLDERS, OR JOINT VENTURE PARTNERS TO OBTAIN OR RETAIN REQUIRED GAMING REGULATORY LICENSES, COULD PREVENT THE COMPLETION OF OUR CURRENT CASINO DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS, PREVENT US FROM PURSUING FUTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS, FORCE US TO DIVEST THE HOLDINGS OF A STOCKHOLDER FOUND UNSUITABLE BY ANY FEDERAL, STATE, REGIONAL OR TRIBAL GOVERNMENTAL BODY OR OTHERWISE ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATION. The ownership, management and operation of gaming facilities are and will be subject to extensive federal, state, provincial, tribal and/or local laws, regulations and ordinances that are administered by the relevant regulatory agency or agencies in each jurisdiction. These laws, regulations and ordinances vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally concern the responsibilities, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations, and often require such parties to obtain certain licenses, permits and approvals. These laws, regulations and ordinances may also affect the operations of our gaming facilities or our plans in pursuing future projects. 12 Licenses that we and our officers, directors and principal stockholders are subject to generally expire after a relatively short period of time and thus require frequent renewals and reevaluations. Obtaining these licenses in the first place, and for purposes of renewals, normally involves receiving a subjective determination of "suitability." A finding of unsuitability could lead to a material loss of investment by either us or our stockholders, as it would require divestiture of one's direct or indirect interest in a gaming operator that conducts business in the licensing jurisdiction making the determination of unsuitability. Consequently, should we or any stockholder ever be found to be unsuitable by the federal government, the State of New York or the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe, to own a direct or indirect interest in a company with gaming operations, we or such stockholder, as the case may be, could be forced to liquidate all interests in that entity. Should either we or such stockholder be forced to liquidate these interests within a relatively short period of time, we or such stockholder would likely be forced to sell at a discount, causing a material loss of investment value. During 2002, certain affiliates of Bryanston Group, Inc. ("Bryanston Group"), our former largest stockholder, and six of our former officers and directors were indicted for various counts of tax and bank fraud. On September 5, 2003, one of these former directors pleaded guilty to felony tax fraud, and on February 4, 2004, four additional former officers and directors were convicted of tax and bank fraud. None of the acts these individuals were charged with or convicted of relate to their former positions with or ownership interests in us and their remaining interests do not provide them with any significant control in the management of the Company. However, there can be no assurance that none of the various governmental agencies that now, or in the future may, regulate and license our gaming related activities will factor in these indictments or criminal acts in evaluating our suitability. Should a regulatory agency fail to acknowledge that these indictments and convictions do not bear on our suitability, we could lose our gaming licenses or be forced to liquidate certain or all of our gaming interests. We received a letter from the New York State Racing and Wagering Board on January 16, 2006, requesting information about our plans to divest Bryanston Group and its affiliates of their remaining interests in us. We have advised the New York State Racing and Wagering Board that approximately one-half of the ownership of Bryanston has been forfeited to the United States as a result of the convictions referred to above. According to the terms of our Series E preferred stock, we have the option to redeem these shares at a price of $10 per share plus all accrued and unpaid dividends. The cost of redeeming these shares, as of December 31, 2006, was approximately $22.9 million. We may not be able to obtain sufficient financing in amounts or on terms that are acceptable to us in order to redeem all of these shares, should this be required. THE GAMING INDUSTRY IN THE NORTHEASTERN UNITED STATES IS HIGHLY COMPETITIVE, WITH MANY OF OUR COMPETITORS BETTER KNOWN AND BETTER FINANCED THAN US. The gaming industry in the northeastern United States is highly competitive and increasingly run by multinational corporations or Indian tribes that enjoy widespread name recognition, established brand loyalty, decades of casino operation experience and a diverse portfolio of gaming assets. Atlantic City, the second most popular gaming destination in the United States, with more than 10 full service hotel casinos, is approximately a two hour drive from New York City, the highly popular Foxwoods Resort and Casino and the Mohegan Sun casino are each only two and a half hour drives from New York City. Harrah's Entertainment, Inc., a large gaming company, Trading Cove Associates, Inc., the developers of the Mohegan Sun casino, and the Wisconsin Oneidas are each planning to develop Indian casinos on properties that are near Monticello Raceway. Additionally, on July 4, 2004, the State of Pennsylvania enacted a law allowing for the operation of up to 61,000 slot machines at 14 locations. Pursuant to this new law, slot machine facilities could be developed within 30 miles of Monticello Raceway that would compete directly with our VGMs. One such development, the Mohegan Sun at Pocono Downs, opened in January, 2007 in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, approximately 75 miles southwest of Monticello. Moreover, a number of well financed Indian tribes and gaming entrepreneurs are presently seeking to develop casinos in New York and Connecticut in areas that are 90 miles from New York City such as Bridgeport, Connecticut and Southampton, New York. In contrast, we have limited financial resources and currently operate only a harness horse racing facility and VGMs in Monticello, New York, which is approximately a one and a half hour drive from New York City. No assurance can be given that we will be able to compete successfully with the established Atlantic City casinos, existing and proposed regional Indian casinos, slot machine facilities in Pennsylvania or the casinos proposed to be developed by Harrah's Entertainment, Inc., Trading Cove Associates, Inc. and the Wisconsin Oneidas in the Catskills region of the State of New York for gaming customers. 13 BECAUSE OF THE UNIQUE STATUS OF INDIAN TRIBES, GENERALLY, OUR ABILITY TO SUCCESSFULLY DEVELOP AND MANAGE OUR PROPOSED INDIAN CASINO WILL BE SUBJECT TO UNIQUE RISKS. We have limited experience in managing or developing Indian casinos, which presents unique challenges. Indian tribes are sovereign nations and possess the inherent power to adopt laws and regulate matters within their jurisdiction. For example, tribes are generally immune from suit and other legal processes unless they waive such immunity. Gaming at a casino developed with the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe will be operated on behalf of such tribe's government, and that government is subject to changes in leadership or governmental policies, varying political interests, and pressures from the tribe's individual members, any of which may conflict with our interests. Thus, disputes between ourselves and the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe may arise. With respect to disputes concerning our existing gaming facility management agreement and development agreement with the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe, the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe has waived its sovereign immunity, although if for any reason that waiver should be ineffective, we might be unable to enforce our rights under such agreement. Also, it is possible that we might be required to seek enforcement of our rights in a court or other dispute resolution forum of the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe, instead of state or federal courts or arbitration. As discussed below, until the gaming facility management agreement has been approved by the NIGC and by the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe, the operative provisions of that agreement will not be valid or binding on the applicable tribe, and under relevant federal court precedent, it is likely that some or all of our other agreements with such tribe will also be inoperative until such gaming facility management agreement has been approved by the NIGC. Indian gaming is also governed by unique laws, regulations and requirements arising from the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act of 1988, as amended, any applicable Class III gaming compact, and gaming laws of the applicable Indian tribe, and certain federal Indian law statutes or judicial principles. A number of examples exist where Indian tribes have been successful in obtaining determinations that management-related contracts (including development or consulting contracts) were void as a result of the application of the unique provisions of these laws. For all of the foregoing and other reasons, we may encounter difficulties in successfully developing and managing an Indian casino with the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe. Several companies with gaming experience that have tried to become involved in the management and/or development of Indian casinos have been unsuccessful. Due to our management's limited Indian gaming experience, no assurance can be given that we will be able to avoid the pitfalls that have befallen other companies in their efforts to develop successful Indian gaming operations. GAMING IS A HIGHLY REGULATED INDUSTRY AND CHANGES IN THE LAW COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON US AND OUR ABILITY TO CONDUCT GAMING, AND THUS ON OUR ABILITY TO MEET OUR DEBT SERVICE OBLIGATIONS. Indian casinos in New York are regulated extensively by federal, state and tribal regulatory bodies, including the NIGC and agencies of the State of New York. As is the case with any casino, changes in applicable laws and regulations could limit or materially affect the types of gaming that may be conducted, or services provided, by our planned casino and the revenues realized from it. Currently, the operation of all gaming on Indian lands is subject to the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act. Over the past several years, legislation has been introduced in the United States Congress with the intent of addressing a variety of perceived problems with the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act. Specifically, legislation has been proposed which would have the effect of prohibiting the operation of particular classes of gaming on parcels of land, such as ours, that are not located on existing Indian reservations. While none of the substantive proposed amendments to the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act have been enacted, we cannot predict future legislative acts. In the event that Congress passes prohibitory legislation, and if such legislation is sustained in the courts, we may be unable to move forward in developing our planned Indian casino and our ability to meet our debt service obligations would be materially and adversely affected. In addition, under federal law, gaming on Indian land is dependent on the permissibility under state law of specific forms of gaming or similar activities. If the State of New York were to make various forms of gaming illegal or against public policy, such action may have an adverse effect on our ability to develop Indian gaming operations in the Catskills region of the State of New York. A TRANSFER OF A PROPOSED CASINO SITE TO THE UNITED STATES, TO BE HELD IN TRUST FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE ST. REGIS MOHAWK TRIBE MIGHT NOT OCCUR OR MAY BE DELAYED FOR A SUBSTANTIAL PERIOD OF TIME; AND UNTIL SUCH A TRANSFER OCCURS, IT WILL NOT BE POSSIBLE FOR THE ST. REGIS MOHAWK TRIBE TO OPERATE A CASINO IN THE CATSKILLS REGION OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK FOR US TO MANAGE. 14 Under the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act of 1988, as amended, the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe will be able to operate a casino in the Catskills region of the State of New York only if the casino is located on land held by the United States in trust for the tribe (or subject to similar restrictions on transfer), and only if such tribe exercises governmental powers over the casino site. That same Act, however, generally prohibits Indian casinos on land transferred into trust after October 17, 1988, subject to certain exceptions, one of which is being pursued by the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe, without any assurance that it will be obtained. The exception being pursued by the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe permits land to be transferred after October 17, 1988, if, after consultation with the tribe and applicable state, local and other nearby tribal officials, the Secretary of the Interior (who acts through the Bureau of Indian Affairs (the "BIA")) determines that a gaming establishment on the land proposed for transfer would be in the best interest of the tribe and its members, and would not be detrimental to the surrounding community, and the Governor of the applicable State concurs in such determination. To date, the instances are very limited where this exception has been successful for off-reservation land, particularly in circumstances where the land to be placed in trust is located a substantial distance from the ancestral lands or reservation of a tribe. While the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe has certain ancestral ties to the Catskills region of New York, the region is a substantial distance from land recognized to be a part of the Tribe's current reservation. Nevertheless, we were advised that on December 21, 2006 the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe received a letter from the Secretary of the Interior stating that the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe's Final Environmental Assessment had been deemed sufficient, that an Environmental Impact Study would not be required, and that a FONSI related to the proposed federal action approving the request of the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe to take 29.31 acres into trust for the purpose of building a Class III gaming facility to be located at Monticello Raceway, in accordance with the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act of 1988 had been issued. On February 19, 2007, New York Governor Eliot Spitzer issued his concurrence with this determination by the Secretary of the Interior and signed the amendment to the Class III gaming compact between the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe and the State of New York. Such amendment to the gaming compact between the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe and New York State effecting the Land-to-Trust Transfer must be reviewed and approved by the BIA and the BIA must take the necessary administrative action to effect the Land-to-Trust Transfer. No assurance can be given that the BIA will provide such approval or take the necessary administrative action to effect the Land-to Trust Transfer. IF OUR GAMING FACILITY MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT IS NOT APPROVED BY THE NIGC, WE WILL NOT BE ABLE TO EXECUTE OUR CURRENT BUSINESS PLAN OF DEVELOPING AND MANAGING AN INDIAN CASINO. Our agreement with the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe will not be effective to allow us to commence the development or management of a gaming facility until our management agreement is first approved by the NIGC, and that approval might not be obtained or might be obtained only after we agree to modify terms that either reduce our revenues under the agreement or otherwise adversely affect us. No management contract for tribally operated Class II or Class III gaming is valid until approved by the NIGC, and under current case law in New York, provisions of any agreement collateral to a management contract, such as our development agreement, are likewise not valid until the management agreement is so approved. The NIGC has broad discretion to approve or reject proposed management contracts, and by law the NIGC can approve management fees exceeding 30% of related net gaming revenues only if the Chairman of the NIGC is satisfied that the capital investment required, and income projections, require the additional fee. The St. Regis Mohawk Tribe has agreed to pay us a 30% management fee, as well as other compensation under the development agreement. Our gaming facility management agreement with the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe had been under review with the NIGC for approximately 3 1/2 years when, in 2000, the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe renounced their agreements with us and entered into an agreement with Park Place Entertainment Corporation (now Harrah's Entertainment, Inc.). Consequently, our request for review by the NIGC of the gaming facility management agreement was subsequently withdrawn. On August 1, 2005, we entered into a letter agreement with the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe pursuant to which, among other items, both parties re-affirmed their prior contracts. In March 2006, we re-submitted a gaming facility management agreement to the NIGC, which contained revisions to address certain comments made by the NIGC in their prior reviews. No assurance can be given that the NIGC will approve the gaming facility management agreement, as amended, or that further modifications to such agreement will not be required prior to the NIGC granting approval. Such modifications could include a material reduction in the management fees or other compensation we have negotiated with the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe. As amended, and approved by the NIGC, the gaming facility management agreement will require formal approval by the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe before such agreement becomes 15 effective. We cannot guarantee that the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe will approve the amended gaming facility management agreement in order to obtain approval from the NIGC. A CLASS III GAMING COMPACT BETWEEN THE STATE OF NEW YORK AND THE ST. REGIS MOHAWK TRIBE MUST BE NEGOTIATED AND BECOME EFFECTIVE BEFORE SUCH TRIBE CAN OPERATE A CASINO FOR US TO MANAGE. The St. Regis Mohawk Tribe can not lawfully engage in Class III gaming in the Catskills region of the State of New York unless such tribe and the Governor for the State of New York enter into a Class III gaming compact for such gaming that is approved or deemed approved by the Secretary of the Interior. Although courts have invalidated two other Class III gaming compacts between New York tribes and the State of New York due to lack of legislative authority, the Governor has received requisite legislative authorization to enter into a Class III gaming compact with the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe in the Catskills region of the State of New York. Such gaming compacts will not be entered into until the appropriate land has been taken into trust by the United States for the benefit of such tribe. On February 19, 2007, the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe and the State of New York entered into an amendment to their compact for Class III gaming, pursuant to which, among other things, New York State would receive 20 percent of slot-machine revenues for the first two years after the Tribe's Class III casino to be located at Monticello Raceway opens, 23 percent for the next two years and 25 percent thereafter. Pursuant to the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act of 1988, the compact for Class III gaming entered into by the State of New York and the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe does not become effective until an approval of the compact by the Secretary of the Interior has been published in the Federal Register. Additionally, the compact could become effective, but only to the extent it is consistent with the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act of 1988, upon publication of a notice in the Federal Register that forty-five days have elapsed after the compact was submitted for approval to the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of the Interior neither approved nor disapproved the compact. No assurance can be given that the Secretary of the Interior will approve the terms of any compact agreed to by the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe and the State of New York. In particular, the existence of revenue sharing provisions in a compact by which a state receives a share of tribal gaming revenues has provided a basis for the Secretary of the Interior to disapprove a compact. The Indian Gaming Regulatory Act of 1988 generally prohibits a state from imposing a tax on tribes for the privilege of conducting gaming in the state. The Seneca Nation-State of New York gaming compact that governs the Seneca Niagara Falls Casino, for example, was neither approved nor disapproved within the required 45-day period, and therefore became effective upon publication of a notice in the Federal Register. In the letter to the Seneca Nation and the Governor of New York, the Secretary of the Interior stated that the State of New York's right to receive up to 25% of gross gaming revenues was primarily based on the State of New York's grant of an extensive area in which the Seneca Nation would have broad exclusive gaming rights. If the Secretary of the Interior disapproves any agreed upon compact, the compact will not become effective and the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe will not be able to conduct gaming under its terms. Since 2003, a bill has been pending in Congress that would limit a State's right to share in a tribe's gaming revenues unless the State provided the tribe a "substantial economic benefit." We cannot predict if this or other legislation will be enacted or, if enacted, would prevent a gaming compact between the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe and the State of New York. WE MAY REQUIRE ADDITIONAL FINANCING IN ORDER TO DEVELOP OUR PROPOSED INDIAN CASINO AND WE MAY BE UNABLE TO MEET OUR FUTURE CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS AND EXECUTE OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY. Because we may not be able to continue to generate sufficient cash to fund our operations, we may be forced to rely on external financing to develop our Indian casino project and to meet future capital and operating requirements. Any projections of future cash needs and cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. Our capital requirements depend upon several factors, including the rate of market acceptance, our ability to expand our customer base and increase revenues, our level of expenditures for marketing and sales, purchases of equipment, revenues and other factors. If our capital requirements vary materially from those currently planned, we may require additional financing sooner than anticipated. We can make no assurance that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us or within the limitations contained in our credit facility with Bank of Scotland or the indenture governing our senior secured convertible notes, if at all. Further, if we issue equity securities, stockholders may experience additional dilution or the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of common stock, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants which could restrict our operations or finances. If we cannot raise funds, if needed, on acceptable terms, we may be required to delay, scale back or eliminate some of our expansion and development goals related to 16 the casino projects and we may not be able to continue our operations, grow market share, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements which could negatively impact our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the construction of the Indian casino project may depend upon the ability of the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe to obtain financing for the project. In order to assist the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe to obtain any such financing, we, or one of our subsidiaries, may be required to guarantee the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe's debt obligations. Any guarantees by us or one of our subsidiaries or similar off-balance sheet liabilities, if any, will increase our potential exposure in the event of a default by the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe. OUR MANAGEMENT REVENUES FROM OUR PROPOSED INDIAN CASINO MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY MATTERS ADVERSE TO THE ST. REGIS MOHAWK TRIBE THAT ARE UNRELATED TO US. When constructed, our proposed Indian casino site will be either owned by the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe, or held by the United States in trust for the benefit of the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe. We and our subsidiaries will derive revenues from the site based on our management and development contracts. If the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe does not adequately shield its gaming operations at the site from obligations arising from its other non-gaming operations, and the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe suffers a material adverse event such as insolvency, a default or civil damages in a matter in which it did not have sovereign immunity, creditors could attempt to seize some or all of the personal property or profits from the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe's gaming operations or move to have a receiver or trustee appointed. Such a result could lead to the voidance or indirect modification by a court of our subsidiaries' management and development contracts with the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe, leading to a material adverse affect on our operations. We may be required by lenders who finance the casino to subordinate all or part of our management fees to the prior payment in full of their financing. In addition, if creditors were to seize any or all of the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe's revenues from gaming operations, our subsidiaries' management and development agreements with the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe would be rendered worthless, as the ability to conduct casino style gambling on that property may no longer be permissible. THE CONTINUING DECLINE IN THE POPULARITY OF HORSE RACING AND INCREASING COMPETITION IN SIMULCASTING COULD ADVERSELY IMPACT THE BUSINESS OF MONTICELLO RACEWAY. Since the mid-1980s, there has been a general decline in the number of people attending and wagering at live horse races at North American racetracks due to a number of factors, including increased competition from other forms of gaming, unwillingness of customers to travel a significant distance to racetracks and the increasing availability of off-track wagering. The declining attendance at live horse racing events has prompted racetracks to rely increasingly on revenues from inter-track, off-track and account wagering markets. The industry-wide focus on inter-track, off-track and account wagering markets has increased competition among racetracks for outlets to simulcast their live races. A continued decrease in attendance at live events and in on-track wagering, as well as increased competition in the inter-track, off-track and account wagering markets, could lead to a decrease in the amount wagered at Monticello Raceway. Our business plan anticipates the possibility of Monticello Raceway attracting new customers to its racetrack wagering operations through VGM operations and potential casino development in order to offset the general decline in raceway attendance. However, even if the numerous arrangements, approvals and legislative changes necessary for casino development occur, Monticello Raceway may not be able to maintain profitable operations. Public tastes are unpredictable and subject to change. Any decline in interest in horse racing or any change in public tastes may adversely affect Monticello Raceway's revenues and, therefore, limit its ability to make a positive contribution to our results. WE DEPEND ON OUR KEY PERSONNEL AND THE LOSS OF THEIR SERVICES WOULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATIONS. If we are unable to maintain our key personnel and attract new employees with high levels of expertise in those gaming areas in which we propose to engage, without unreasonably increasing our labor costs, the execution of our business strategy may be hindered and our growth limited. We believe that our success is largely dependent on the continued employment of our senior management and the hiring of strategic key personnel at reasonable costs. If any of our current senior managers were unable or unwilling to continue in his or her present position, or we were unable to attract a sufficient number of qualified employees at reasonable rates, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. 17 SUBSTANTIAL LEVERAGE AND DEBT SERVICE OBLIGATIONS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR CASH FLOW, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. As a result of the issuance of our senior secured notes, our debt service obligations increased substantially. There is the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay the principal or interest on and other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness when due. We may also incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Our level of indebtedness will have several important effects on our future operations, including, without limitation: o a portion of our cash flow from operations will be dedicated to the payment of any interest or principal required with respect to outstanding indebtedness; o increases in our outstanding indebtedness and leverage will increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as to competitive pressure; and o depending on the levels of our outstanding indebtedness, our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, general corporate and other purposes may be limited. Our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which is subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. Our business might not continue to generate cash flow at or above current levels. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required, among other things: o to seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; o to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness, including our senior secured convertible notes; or o to sell selected assets. Such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness. In addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. WE MAY NOT HAVE THE ABILITY TO REPURCHASE OUR SENIOR SECURED CONVERTIBLE NOTES. Upon the occurrence of a change in control (as defined in the indenture governing our senior secured convertible notes), we would be required to repurchase all of our outstanding senior secured convertible notes tendered to us by the holders of such notes. In addition, we may be required to repurchase our senior secured convertible notes on July 31, 2009. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient financial resources, or will be able to arrange financing, to pay the purchase price for all of such notes tendered by the holders in connection with any such repurchase. Any failure to repurchase the notes when required will result in an event of default under the indenture. In addition, the events that constitute a change of control under the indenture may also be events of default under any credit agreement or other agreement governing future debt. These events may permit the lenders under such credit agreement or other agreement to accelerate the debt outstanding thereunder and, if such debt is not paid, to enforce security interests in the collateral securing such debt, thereby limiting our ability to raise cash to purchase the notes, and reducing the practical benefit of the offer to purchase provisions to the holders of the notes. FUTURE SALES OF SHARES OF OUR COMMON STOCK IN THE PUBLIC MARKET OR THE CONVERSION OF OUR SENIOR SECURED CONVERTIBLE NOTES COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE TRADING PRICE OF SHARES OF OUR COMMON STOCK, THE VALUE OF OUR SENIOR SECURED CONVERTIBLE NOTES AND OUR ABILITY TO RAISE FUNDS IN NEW STOCK OFFERINGS. 18 Future sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock in the public market, the conversion of our senior secured convertible notes into shares of our common stock, or the perception that such sales or conversion are likely to occur, could affect prevailing trading prices of our common stock and, as a result, the value of our senior secured convertible notes. As of March 7, 2007, we had 29,429,902 shares of common stock outstanding. Because our senior secured convertible notes generally are initially convertible into shares of our common stock only at a conversion price in excess of the recent trading price, a decline in our common stock price may cause the value of our senior secured convertible notes to decline. In addition, the existence of our senior secured convertible notes may encourage short selling by market participants due to this dilution or facilitate trading strategies involving our senior secured convertible notes and our common stock. On January 12, 2004, 18,219,075 shares of our common stock were issued pursuant to our acquisition of Monticello Raceway Management, Inc., Monticello Casino Management, LLC, Monticello Raceway Development Company, LLC and Mohawk Management, LLC, all of which may be sold to the public pursuant to a registration statement under the Securities Act. We also issued 4,050,000 shares of our common stock to multiple investors in February 2004 in a private placement. On December 28, 2006, we entered into an Amendment to that option agreement, dated November 12, 2004, between the Company and Concord Associates Limited Partnership ("Concord") pursuant to which (i) Concord exercised options for 2,500,000 shares of the Company's common stock for an aggregate cash consideration of $18,750,000 which was paid on January 26, 2007 and (ii) Concord retained the right to exercise options for an additional 1,000,000 shares of the Company's common stock at $7.50 per share until December 27, 2007. At December 31, 2006, we had outstanding options to purchase an aggregate of 3,283,909 shares of common stock at an average exercise price of $6.06 per share and 250,000 warrants at $7.50 per warrant. If the holders of these shares, options or warrants were to attempt to sell a substantial amount of their holdings at once, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. Moreover, the perceived risk of this potential dilution could cause stockholders to attempt to sell their shares and investors to "short" the stock, a practice in which an investor sells shares that he or she does not own at prevailing market prices, hoping to purchase shares later at a lower price to cover the sale. As each of these events would cause the number of shares of our common stock being offered for sale to increase, the common stock's market price would likely further decline. All of these events could combine to make it very difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. THE VALUE OF THE CONVERSION RIGHT ASSOCIATED WITH THE SENIOR SECURED CONVERTIBLE NOTES MAY BE SUBSTANTIALLY LESSENED OR ELIMINATED IF WE ARE PARTY TO A MERGER, CONSOLIDATION OR OTHER SIMILAR TRANSACTION. If we are party to a consolidation, merger or binding share exchange or transfer or lease of all or substantially all of our assets pursuant to which shares of our common stock are converted into cash, securities or other property, at the effective time of the transaction, the right to convert senior secured convertible notes into shares of our common stock will be changed into a right to convert the note into the kind and amount of cash, securities or other property which the holder would have received if the holder had converted its senior secured convertible notes immediately prior to the transaction. This change could substantially lessen or eliminate the value of the conversion privilege associated with the notes in the future. For example, if we were acquired in a cash merger, each note would become convertible solely into cash and would no longer be convertible into securities whose value would vary depending on our future prospects and other factors. CERTAIN PROVISIONS OF OUR CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION AND BYLAWS DISCOURAGE UNSOLICITED TAKEOVER PROPOSALS AND COULD PREVENT YOU FROM REALIZING A PREMIUM RETURN ON YOUR INVESTMENT IN OUR COMMON STOCK. Our board of directors is divided into three classes, with each class constituting one-third of the total number of directors and the members of each class serving staggered three-year terms. This classification of the board of directors makes it more difficult for our stockholders to change the composition of the board of directors because only a minority of the directors can be elected at once. The classification provisions could also discourage a third party from accumulating our stock or attempting to obtain control of us, even though this attempt might be beneficial to us and some, or a majority, of our stockholders. Accordingly, under certain circumstances our stockholders could be deprived of opportunities to sell their shares of common stock at a higher price than might otherwise be available. In addition, pursuant to our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by the stockholders, to issue up to 3,225,045 shares of preferred stock on such terms and with such rights, preferences and designations, including, without limitation, restricting dividends on our common stock, dilution of our common stock's voting power and impairing the liquidation rights of the holders of our 19 common stock, as the board of directors may determine. Issuance of such preferred stock, depending upon its rights, preferences and designations, may also have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control. YOUR ABILITY TO INFLUENCE CORPORATE DECISIONS MAY BE LIMITED BECAUSE OUR MAJOR STOCKHOLDERS OWN A LARGE PERCENTAGE OF OUR COMMON STOCK. Our significant stockholders own a substantial portion of our outstanding stock. As a result of their stock ownership, if these stockholders were to choose to act together, they may be able to effectively control all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and approval of any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentration of voting power could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company on terms that other stockholders may desire. In addition, as the interests of our majority and minority stockholders may not always be the same, this large concentration of voting power may lead to stockholder votes that are inconsistent with your best interests or the best interest of us as a whole. THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK IS VOLATILE, LEADING TO THE POSSIBILITY OF ITS VALUE BEING DEPRESSED AT A TIME WHEN YOU WANT TO SELL YOUR HOLDINGS. The market price of our common stock has in the past been, and may in the future continue to be, volatile. For instance, between January 1, 2004 and March 9, 2007, the closing bid price of our common stock has ranged between $3.30 and $15.00. A variety of events may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly, including but not necessarily limited to: o quarter to quarter variations in operating results; o adverse news announcements; and o market conditions for the gaming industry. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations for reasons unrelated to operating performance. These market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock and other interests in the Company at a time when you want to sell your interest in us. GENERAL BUSINESS RISKS TERRORISM AND THE UNCERTAINTY OF WAR MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 and the after-effects (including the prospects for more terror attacks in the United States and abroad), combined with recent economic trends and the U.S.-led military action in Iraq had a negative impact on various regions of the United States and on a wide range of industries, including, in particular, the hospitality industry. In particular, the terrorist attacks, as well as the United States war on terrorism, may have an unpredictable effect on general economic conditions and may harm our future results of operations as they may engender apprehension in people who would otherwise be inclined to travel to destination resort areas like the Catskills region of the State of New York. Moreover, in the future, fears of recession, war and additional acts of terrorism may continue to impact the U.S. economy and could negatively impact our business. WE ARE SUBJECT TO GREATER RISKS THAN A GEOGRAPHICALLY DIVERSE COMPANY. Our proposed operations are primarily limited to the Catskills region of the State of New York. As a result, in addition to our susceptibility to adverse global and domestic economic, political and business conditions, any economic downturn in the region could have a material adverse effect on our operations. An economic downturn would likely cause a decline in the disposable income of consumers in the region, which could result in a decrease in the number of patrons at our proposed facilities, the frequency of their visits and the average amount that they would be willing to spend at the proposed casino. We are subject to greater risks than more geographically diversified gaming or 20 resort operations and may continue to be subject to these risks upon completion of our expansion projects, including: o a downturn in national, regional or local economic conditions; o an increase in competition in New York State or the Northeastern United States and Canada, particularly for day-trip patrons residing in New York State, including as a result of recent legislation permitting new Indian casinos and VGMs at certain racetracks and other locations in New York, Connecticut and Pennsylvania; o impeded access due to road construction or closures of primary access routes; and o adverse weather and natural and other disasters in the Northeastern United States and Canada. The occurrence of any one of the events described above could cause a material disruption in our business and make us unable to generate sufficient cash flow to make payments on our obligations. OUR BUSINESS COULD BE AFFECTED BY WEATHER-RELATED FACTORS AND SEASONALITY. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by weather-related and seasonal factors. Severe winter weather conditions may deter or prevent patrons from reaching our gaming facilities or undertaking day trips. In addition, some recreational activities are curtailed during the winter months. Although our budget assumes these seasonal fluctuations in gaming revenues for our proposed Indian casino to ensure adequate cash flow during expected periods of lower revenues, we cannot assure you that weather-related and seasonal factors will not have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to predict the future effects of seasonality on our business, if any. WE ARE VULNERABLE TO NATURAL DISASTERS AND OTHER DISRUPTIVE EVENTS THAT COULD SEVERELY DISRUPT THE NORMAL OPERATIONS OF OUR BUSINESS AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR EARNINGS. Currently, the majority of our operations are located at a facility in Monticello, New York and our proposed Indian casino will be located in the same general geographic area. Although this area is not prone to earthquakes, floods, tornados, fires or other natural disasters, the occurrence of any of these events or any other cause of material disruption in our operation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Moreover, although we do maintain insurance customary for our industry including a policy with a ten million dollar ($10,000,000) limit of coverage for the perils of flood and earthquake, we can not assure that this coverage will be sufficient in the event of one of the disasters mentioned above. WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO MATERIAL ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITY AS A RESULT OF UNKNOWN ENVIRONMENTAL HAZARDS. We currently own 232 acres of land. As a significant landholder, we are subject to numerous environmental laws. Specifically, under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases on or relating to its property and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury and for investigation and cleanup costs incurred by such parties in connection with the contamination. Such laws typically impose cleanup responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner knew of or caused the presence of contaminants. The costs of investigation, remediation or removal of such substances may be substantial. POTENTIAL CHANGES IN THE REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. From time to time, legislators and special interest groups have proposed legislation that would expand, restrict or prevent gaming operations in the jurisdictions in which we operate or intend to operate. For example, Senator John McCain of Arizona, the former chairman of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee, - announced in 2006 that he is calling for hearings on all aspects of 21 Indian gaming. In addition, from time to time, certain anti-gaming groups propose referenda that, if adopted, could force us to curtail operations and incur significant losses. WE ARE DEPENDENT ON THE STATE OF NEW YORK, SULLIVAN COUNTY, THE TOWN OF THOMPSON AND THE VILLAGE OF MONTICELLO TO PROVIDE OUR PROPOSED FACILITIES WITH CERTAIN NECESSARY SERVICES. Former New York State Governor George Pataki proposed legislation that would result in up to five Indian casinos being developed in Sullivan County. It is uncertain whether the local governments have the ability to support this level of economic development. The demands place upon the local governments by these expansion efforts may be beyond the infrastructure capabilities that these entities are able to provide. The failure of the State of New York, Sullivan County, the Town of Thompson or the Village of Monticello to provide certain necessary services such as water, sanitation, law enforcement and fire protection, or to be able to support increased traffic demands for our proposed facilities, would have a material adverse effect on our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 