ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS IF OUR VGMS AT MONTICELLO RACEWAY DO NOT INCREASE OUR REVENUES AND OPERATING INCOME OR IF AN INDIAN CASINO IS NOT SUCCESSFULLY DEVELOPED BY US OR IF WE ARE UNABLE TO ATTRACT SUFFICIENT ATTENDANCE, IT COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO SERVICE OUR OUTSTANDING DEBT. Our ability to service our senior secured convertible notes or loans under our credit facility with Bank of Scotland will depend upon the success of our VGM facility, our ability to successfully develop and manage an Indian casino for the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe and/or the Cayuga Nation of New York and our ability to attract sufficient attendance. There can be no assurance that VGMs will draw sufficiently large crowds to Monticello Raceway to increase local wagering to the point that we will realize a profit. The operations and placement of our VGMs, including the layout and distribution, are under the jurisdiction of the New York State Lottery and the program contemplates that a significant share of the responsibility for marketing the program will be borne by the New York State Lottery. The New York State Lottery may make decisions that we feel are not in our best interest and, as a consequence, the profitability of our video gaming machine operations may not reach the levels that we believe to be feasible or may be slower than expected in reaching those levels. Until recently, our VGM operations were losing money, as we are only permitted to retain 32% of the first fifty million, 29% of the next one hundred million and 26% thereafter of its VGM gross revenue. Moreover, the legislation authorizing the implementation of VGMs at Monticello Raceway expires in 2013, prior to the stated maturity of our senior secured notes, and no assurance can be given that the authorizing legislation will be extended beyond this period. Similarly, the development of our proposed Indian casinos is subject to many regulatory, competitive, economic and business risks beyond our control, and there can be no assurance that either will be developed in a timely manner, or at all. Any failure in this regard could have a material adverse impact on our operations and our ability to service our current debt. AS A HOLDING COMPANY, WE ARE DEPENDENT ON THE OPERATIONS OF OUR SUBSIDIARIES TO PAY DIVIDENDS OR MAKE DISTRIBUTIONS IN ORDER TO GENERATE INTERNAL CASH FLOW. 14 We are a holding company with no revenue generating operations. Consequently, our ability to meet our working capital requirements and service our outstanding debt depends on the earnings and the distribution of funds from our subsidiaries. There can be no assurance that these subsidiaries will generate enough revenue to make cash distributions in an amount necessary for us to satisfy our working capital requirements and our obligations under our senior secured convertible notes or the Bank of Scotland credit facility. CHANGES IN THE LAWS, REGULATIONS, AND ORDINANCES (INCLUDING TRIBAL AND/OR LOCAL LAWS) TO WHICH THE GAMING INDUSTRY IS SUBJECT, AND THE APPLICATION OF EXISTING LAWS AND REGULATIONS, OR OUR INABILITY OR THE INABILITY OF OUR KEY PERSONNEL, SIGNIFICANT STOCKHOLDERS, OR JOINT VENTURE PARTNERS TO OBTAIN OR RETAIN REQUIRED GAMING REGULATORY LICENSES, COULD PREVENT THE COMPLETION OF OUR CURRENT CASINO DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS, PREVENT US FROM PURSUING FUTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS OR OTHERWISE ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATION. The ownership, management and operation of gaming facilities are subject to extensive federal, state, provincial, tribal and/or local laws, regulations and ordinances that are administered by the relevant regulatory agency or agencies in each jurisdiction. These laws, regulations and ordinances vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally concern the responsibilities, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations, and often require such parties to obtain certain licenses, permits and approvals. These laws, regulations and ordinances may also affect the operations of our gaming facilities or our plans in pursuing future projects. The rapidly-changing political and regulatory environment governing the gaming industry (including gaming operations that are conducted on Indian land) makes it impossible for us to accurately predict the effects that an adoption of, changes in or application of the gaming laws, regulations and ordinances will have on us. However, our failure, or the failure of any of our key personnel, significant stockholders or joint venture partners, to obtain or retain required gaming regulatory licenses could prevent us from operating our existing gaming enterprises like Monticello Raceway or expanding into new markets, prohibit us from generating revenues in certain jurisdictions, and subject us to sanctions and fines. SHOULD WE OR ANY OF OUR STOCKHOLDERS BE FOUND UNSUITABLE BY ANY FEDERAL, STATE, REGIONAL OR TRIBAL GOVERNMENTAL BODY TO OWN AN INTEREST IN A GAMING OPERATOR, WE OR SUCH STOCKHOLDER COULD BE FORCED TO DIVEST OUR HOLDINGS IN SUCH GAMING OPERATOR IN A SHORT PERIOD OF TIME AT BELOW MARKET PRICES. As discussed above, we and certain of our principal stockholders are required to be licensed or otherwise approved in each jurisdiction in which we own, directly or indirectly, a significant ownership interest in a gaming operator. These licenses generally expire after a relatively short period of time and thus require frequent renewals and reevaluations. Obtaining these licenses in the first place, and for purposes of renewals, normally involves receiving a subjective determination of "suitability." A finding of unsuitability could lead to a material loss of investment by either us or our stockholders, as it would require divestiture of one's direct or indirect interest in a gaming operator that conducts business in the licensing jurisdiction making the determination of unsuitability. Consequently, should we or any stockholder ever be found to be unsuitable by the federal government, the State of New York, the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe or the Cayuga Nation of New York to own a direct or indirect interest in a company with gaming operations, we or such stockholder, as the case may be, could be forced to liquidate all interests in that entity. Should either of we or such stockholder be forced to liquidate these interests within a relatively short period of time, we or such stockholder would likely be forced to sell at a discount, causing a material loss of investment value. SEVERAL OF OUR FORMER OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS HAVE BEEN INDICTED OR CONVICTED ON FRAUD CHARGES, AND OUR SUITABILITY DETERMINATION TO PARTICIPATE IN GAMING ACTIVITIES COULD ACCORDINGLY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. During 2002, certain affiliates of Bryanston Group, Inc. ("Bryanston Group"), our former largest stockholder, and six of our former officers and directors were indicted for various counts of tax and bank fraud. On September 5, 2003, one of these former directors pleaded guilty to felony tax fraud, and on February 4, 2004, four additional former officers and directors were convicted of tax and bank fraud. On December 12, 2002, in an effort to eliminate any connection between us and these individuals, we, pursuant to a recapitalization agreement, (i) issued an aggregate of 336,496 shares of Series E preferred stock to each of Bryanston Group and certain of its affiliates, which we may redeem at any time, in full satisfaction of an outstanding note and 15 as deferred compensation, (ii) issued 1,394,200 shares of Series E preferred stock to Bryanston Group, which we may redeem at any time, in exchange for Bryanston Group's voting membership interest and preferred capital account in Catskill Development, L.L.C., then our principal asset and the past parent of Monticello Raceway, and (iii) received a three-year option to redeem all or any portion of Bryanston Group's 2,326,857 shares and Beatrice Tollman's 66,000 shares of our common stock at a price of $2.12 per share. The option to repurchase this common stock was exercised on January 9, 2004 by issuing promissory notes to Bryanston Group and Beatrice Tollman in exchange for our common stock, which notes were paid in full by us on July 26, 2004. We received a letter from the New York State Racing and Wagering Board on January 16, 2006, requesting information about our plans to divest Bryanston Group and its affiliates of their remaining interests in us. We have advised the New York State Racing and Wagering Board that approximately one-half of the ownership of Bryanston has been forfeited to the United States as a result of the convictions referred to above. According to the terms of our Series E preferred stock, we have the option to redeem these shares at a price of $10 per share plus all accrued and unpaid dividends. The cost of redeeming these shares, as of December 31, 2005, was approximately $21.5 million. We may not be able to obtain sufficient financing in amounts or on terms that are acceptable to us in order to redeem all of these shares, should this be required. None of the acts these individuals were charged with or convicted of relate to their former positions with or ownership interests in us and their remaining interests do not provide them with any significant voice in the management of the Company. However, there can be no assurance that none of the various governmental agencies that now, or in the future may, regulate and license our gaming related activities will factor in these indictments or criminal acts in evaluating our suitability. Should a regulatory agency fail to acknowledge that these indictments and convictions do not bear on our suitability, we could lose our gaming licenses or be forced to liquidate certain or all of our gaming interests. THE GAMING INDUSTRY IN THE NORTHEASTERN UNITED STATES IS HIGHLY COMPETITIVE, WITH MANY OF OUR COMPETITORS BETTER KNOWN AND BETTER FINANCED THAN US. The gaming industry in the northeastern United States is highly competitive and increasingly run by multinational corporations that enjoy widespread name recognition, established brand loyalty, decades of casino operation experience and a diverse portfolio of gaming assets. Atlantic City, the second most popular gaming destination in the United States, with more than 10 full service hotel casinos, is approximately a two hour drive from New York City, the highly popular Foxwoods Resort and Casino and the Mohegan Sun casino are each only two and a half hour drives from New York City. Harrah's Entertainment, Inc., a large gaming company, Trading Cove Associates, Inc., the developers of the Mohegan Sun casino, and the Wisconsin Oneidas are each planning to develop Indian casinos on properties that are near Monticello Raceway. Additionally, on July 4, 2004, the State of Pennsylvania enacted a law allowing for the operation of up to 61,000 slot machines at 14 locations. Pursuant to this new law, slot machine facilities could be developed within 30 miles of Monticello Raceway that compete directly with our VGMs. Moreover, a number of well financed Indian tribes and gaming entrepreneurs are presently seeking to develop casinos in New York and Connecticut in areas that are 90 miles from New York City such as Bridgeport, Connecticut and Southampton, New York. In contrast, we have limited financial resources and currently operate only a harness horse racing facility and VGMs in Monticello, New York, which is approximately a one and a half hour drive from New York City. No assurance can be given that we will be able to compete successfully with the established Atlantic City casinos, existing and proposed regional Indian casinos, slot machine facilities in Pennsylvania or the casinos proposed to be developed by Harrah's Entertainment, Inc., Trading Cove Associates, Inc. and the Wisconsin Oneidas in the Catskills region of the State of New York for gaming customers. BECAUSE OF THE UNIQUE STATUS OF INDIAN TRIBES, GENERALLY, OUR ABILITY TO SUCCESSFULLY DEVELOP AND MANAGE OUR PROPOSED INDIAN CASINOS WILL BE SUBJECT TO UNIQUE RISKS. We have limited experience in managing or developing Indian casinos, which present unique challenges. Indian tribes are governments and possess the inherent power to adopt laws and regulate matters within their jurisdiction. For example, tribes are generally immune from suit and other legal processes unless they waive such immunity. Gaming at casinos developed with the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe or the Cayuga Nation of New York will be operated on behalf of each respective tribe's government, and that government is subject to changes in leadership or governmental policies, varying political interests, and pressures from the tribe's individual members, any of which may conflict with our interests. Thus, disputes between ourselves and either the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe or the Cayuga Nation of New York may arise. With respect to disputes concerning our existing gaming facility management agreement and development agreements with the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe and the Cayuga Nation of New York, each has waived its sovereign immunity, although if for any reason that waiver 16 should be ineffective, we might be unable to enforce our rights under those agreements. Also, it is possible that we might be required to seek enforcement of our rights in a court or other dispute resolution forum of the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe or the Cayuga Nation of New York, as the case may be, instead of state or federal courts or arbitration. As discussed below, until either gaming facility management agreement has been approved by the NIGC and by the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe or the Cayuga Nation of New York, as the case may be, the operative provisions of that agreement will not be valid or binding on the applicable tribe, and under relevant federal court precedent, it is likely that some or all of our other agreements with such tribe will also be inoperative until such gaming facility management agreement has been approved by the NIGC. Indian gaming is also governed by unique laws, regulations and requirements arising from the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act of 1988, as amended, the applicable Class III gaming compact, and gaming laws of the applicable Indian tribe, and certain federal Indian law statutes or judicial principles. A number of examples exist where Indian tribes have been successful in obtaining determinations that management-related contracts (including development or consulting contracts) were void as a result of the application of the unique provisions of these laws. For all of the foregoing and other reasons, we may encounter difficulties in successfully developing and managing an Indian casino with either the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe or the Cayuga Nation of New York. Several companies with gaming experience that have tried to become involved in the management and/or development of Indian casinos have been unsuccessful. Due to our management's limited Indian gaming experience, no assurance can be given that we will be able to avoid the pitfalls that have befallen other companies in their efforts to develop successful Indian gaming operations. GAMING IS A HIGHLY REGULATED INDUSTRY AND CHANGES IN THE LAW COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON US AND OUR ABILITY TO CONDUCT GAMING, AND THUS ON OUR ABILITY TO MEET OUR DEBT SERVICE OBLIGATIONS. Indian casinos in New York are regulated extensively by federal, state and tribal regulatory bodies, including the NIGC and agencies of the State of New York. As is the case with any casino, changes in applicable laws and regulations could limit or materially affect the types of gaming that may be conducted, or services provided, by our planned casinos and the revenues realized from them. Currently, the operation of all gaming on Indian lands is subject to the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act. Over the past several years, legislation has been introduced in the United States Congress with the intent of addressing a variety of perceived problems with the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act. Specifically, legislation has been proposed which would have the effect of prohibiting the operation of particular classes of gaming on parcels of land, such as ours, that are not located on existing Indian reservations. While none of the substantive proposed amendments to the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act have been enacted, we cannot predict future legislative acts. In the event that Congress passes prohibitory legislation, and if such legislation is sustained in the courts, we may be unable to move forward in developing our planned Indian casinos and our ability to meet our debt service obligations would be materially and adversely affected. In addition, under federal law, gaming on Indian land is dependent on the permissibility under state law of specific forms of gaming or similar activities. If the State of New York were to make various forms of gaming illegal or against public policy, such action may have an adverse effect on our ability to develop Indian gaming operations in the Catskills region of the State of New York. THE UNIQUE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE OF THE CAYUGA NATION OF NEW YORK RESULTS IN UNCERTAINTY AS TO THE ABILITY OF SPECIFIC INDIVIDUALS TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENTS THAT ARE EFFICACIOUS OR PERMANENTLY BINDING ON THE CAYUGA NATION OF NEW YORK AS RELATED TO OUR GAMING FACILITY AND MANAGEMENT AGREEMENTS. The Cayuga Nation of New York has about 500 members, each belonging to one of four remaining clans, with clan membership determined by matrilineal succession. The Cayuga Nation of New York has not enjoyed a reservation or other land base for more than two hundred years, and has no written constitution or other governing documents. Instead, the Cayuga Nation of New York follows oral traditions, customs and practices, including a centuries old "Great Law," and is governed by a Council of Chiefs, Representatives and Clan Mothers (the "Council"). As a result, there may be uncertainty at any point in time as to which individuals have authority to act on behalf of the Cayuga Nation of New York and what limitations, if any, exist on that authority. Our current understanding is that only two of the four clans in existence have a Clan Mother, one clan is currently in the process of selecting a Clan Mother, and another clan can no longer designate a Clan Mother because there are no 17 full-blooded women members of that clan. Each Clan Mother is responsible for selecting (and in certain cases removing) two full blood men from among her Clan's members to serve a life-long term as representatives on the Council. The Council may act only by consensus at a meeting, with unanimous consent from those Representatives in attendance. The Council presently does not have regularly scheduled meetings, has not typically maintained written records as to its actions and has no prior experience with gaming or any other substantial business undertaking. Accordingly, we could encounter delays or other difficulties in dealing with matters that require action by the Cayuga Nation of New York's government, including approvals of desirable courses of action, contracts or contract modifications, which in turn could adversely affect our successful development and management of our jointly planned Indian casino. THERE IS CURRENTLY A SPLIT BETWEEN TRIBAL LEADERS OF THE CAYUGA NATION OF NEW YORK, THE OUTCOME OF WHICH COULD LEAD TO THE TERMINATION OF OUR PROPOSED PROJECT TO DEVELOP AN INDIAN CASINO IN THE CATSKILLS REGION OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITH THE CAYUGA NATION OF NEW YORK. On January 3, 2005, Clint Halftown, a representative of the Cayuga Nation of New York, sent a letter to Governor Pataki and issued a press release stating that the Cayuga Nation of New York was abandoning its casino development project with us, along with a settlement agreement between the State of New York and the Cayuga Nation of New York that would have allowed us to move forward in jointly developing an Indian casino. This statement was then refuted by Gary Wheeler, another representative of the Cayuga Nation of New York, in a letter to the Governor of New York State in which he claimed that Clint Halftown's actions were unauthorized, that the tribe had overwhelmingly approved the settlement agreement with the State of New York back in November and that all gaming and development agreements between us and the tribe remained in effect. Mr. Wheeler and Timothy Twoguns, a third representative of the Cayuga Nation of New York, then sent a second letter to the Governor of New York State on January 13, 2005 affirming these positions, and attaching the minutes from a meeting of the Cayuga Nation Council of Chiefs, Representatives and Clan Mothers from November 14, 2004 in which the settlement agreement with the State of New York was duly approved. On February 4, 2005, we received a letter from the NIGC informing us that the NIGC received a letter on January 27, 2005 from Clint Halftown stating that all agreements between us and the Cayuga Nation expired on December 31, 2004. As a result, the NIGC stated that it ceased reviewing the Class III gaming management agreement, dated April 3, 2003, by and among the Nation, the Cayuga Catskill Gaming Authority and Monticello Casino Management, our wholly owned subsidiary, and deemed such contract to be withdrawn. Upon receipt of this letter, the Cayuga Nation of New York told the NIGC that the January 27, 2005 letter was not authorized and that in December 2004 we and the Cayuga Nation of New York entered into a letter agreement extending the expiration date for all agreements between us, including the management agreement. On February 9, 2005, the Cayuga Nation of New York further informed the NIGC that while Clint H. Halftown was previously given signature authority with respect to government-to-government relations with the United States, such authorization was revoked on February 7, 2005. The BIA subsequently notified the tribe that federal agents were being sent to New York to investigate the leadership issue. In addition, on March 15, 2005, Mr. Franklin Keel, the Director of the Eastern Regional Office of the BIA, which was separately reviewing agreements related to the co-development of an Indian casino with the Cayuga Nation of New York that Mr. Halftown purportedly withdrew, stated that it intended to honor Mr. Halftown's action as the BIA found the evidence "insufficient to change the Bureau's recognition of Clint Halftown as having the authority to represent the Cayuga Nation of New York in its dealings with the Federal government." Following a May 2005 election in which members of the Cayuga Nation of New York voted to change their leadership, on July 18, 2005, Mr. Keel, sent letters to two groups of members of the Cayuga Nation of New York currently seeking federal recognition of their tribal leadership in which he failed to grant federal recognition to either group, but offered to assist with mediation or other means of conflict resolution. Given the complex nature of the Cayuga Nation of New York's government, as discussed herein, we cannot assure you that Mr. Halftown was not authorized to terminate the New York State settlement agreement, along with our agreements, regardless of the letters sent to the Governor and the NIGC by Mr. Wheeler and/or Mr. Twoguns. If Mr. Halftown did have proper authority to take such actions, our Indian casino project with the Cayuga Nation of New York would effectively be terminated, regardless of our subsequent agreements which modify certain of our agreements with the Cayuga Nation of New York and extend them until December 31, 2006. 18 A TRANSFER OF A PROPOSED CASINO SITE TO THE UNITED STATES, TO BE HELD IN TRUST FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE ST. REGIS MOHAWK TRIBE OR THE CAYUGA NATION OF NEW YORK MIGHT NOT OCCUR OR MAY BE DELAYED FOR A SUBSTANTIAL PERIOD OF TIME; AND UNTIL SUCH A TRANSFER OCCURS, IT WILL NOT BE POSSIBLE FOR EITHER TRIBE TO OPERATE A CASINO IN THE CATSKILLS REGION OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK FOR US TO MANAGE. Under the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act of 1988, the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe or the Cayuga Nation of New York will be able to operate a casino in the Catskills region of the State of New York only if the casino is located on land held by the United States in trust for the tribe (or subject to similar restrictions on transfer), and only if such tribe exercises governmental powers over the casino site. That same Act, however, generally prohibits Indian casinos on land transferred into trust after October 17, 1988. An exception to this trust land limitation is being pursued by both the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe and the Cayuga Nation of New York, without any assurance that it will be obtained. One exception available for land transferred after October 17, 1988, is that if, after consultation with the tribe and applicable state, local and other nearby tribal officials, the Secretary of the Interior (who acts through the BIA) determines that a gaming establishment on the land proposed for transfer would be in the best interest of the tribe and its members, and would not be detrimental to the surrounding community, and the Governor of the applicable State must concur. To date, the instances are very limited where this exception has been successful for off-reservation land. Furthermore, historically the BIA has been reluctant to support accepting land into trust that is located a substantial distance from the ancestral lands or reservation of a tribe, and in the case of the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe and the Cayuga Nation of New York, the Catskills region of the State of New York is a substantial distance from land recognized to be a part of either tribe's the ancestral lands or original reservation. Additionally, the Governor of New York State must concur with any favorable determination by the Secretary of the Interior, and no assurance can be given that the Governor's office will provide such consent. IF OUR GAMING FACILITY MANAGEMENT AGREEMENTS ARE NOT APPROVED BY THE NIGC, WE WILL NOT BE ABLE TO EXECUTE OUR CURRENT BUSINESS PLAN OF DEVELOPING AND MANAGING INDIAN CASINOS. Our agreements with each of the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe and the Cayuga Nation of New York will not be effective to allow us to commence the development or management of a gaming facility until our management agreement is first approved by the NIGC, and that approval might not be obtained or might be obtained only after we agree to modify terms that reduce our revenues under the agreements or otherwise adversely affect us. No management contract for tribally operated Class II or Class III gaming is valid until approved by the NIGC, and under current case law in New York, provisions of any agreement collateral to a management contract, such as our development agreement, are likewise not valid until the management agreement is so approved. The NIGC has broad discretion to approve or reject proposed management contracts, and by law the NIGC can approve management fees exceeding 30% of related net gaming revenues only if the Chairman of the NIGC is satisfied that the capital investment required, and income projections, require the additional fee. The St. Regis Mohawk Tribe has agreed to pay us a 30% management fee, as well as other compensation under the development agreement. The Cayuga Nation of New York has agreed to pay us a 35% management fee, as well as other compensation under the development agreement. Our gaming facility management agreement with the Cayuga Nation of New York has been under review by the NIGC for over two years. On January 21, 2004, the NIGC issued its first objection letter, and in April 2004, we submitted partial responses to these objections, including a revised gaming facility management agreement that has not yet been executed or otherwise formally approved by the Cayuga Nation of New York, but which we expect will be acceptable to the tribe. Our gaming facility management agreement with the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe had been under review with the NIGC for approximately 3 1/2 years when, in 2000, the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe renounced their agreements with us and entered into an agreement with Park Place Entertainment Corporation (now Harrah's Entertainment, Inc.). Consequently, our request for review by the NIGC of the gaming facility management agreement was subsequently withdrawn. On August 1, 2005, we entered into a letter agreement with the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe pursuant to which, among other items, both parties re-affirmed their prior contracts. In March 2006, we re-submitted a gaming facility management agreement to the NIGC, which contained revisions to address certain comments made by the NIGC in their prior reviews. No assurance can be given that the NIGC will approve the gaming facility management agreement, as amended, or that further modifications to such agreement will not be required prior to the NIGC granting approval. Such modifications could include a material reduction in the management fees or other compensation we 19 have negotiated with the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe and the Cayuga Nation of New York. As amended, and approved by the NIGC, the gaming facility management agreements will require formal approval by the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe and the Cayuga Nation of New York, respectively before such agreements become effective. We cannot guarantee that the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe or the Cayuga Nation of New York will approve the amended gaming facility management agreements in order to obtain approval from the NIGC. COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL REQUIREMENTS COULD SUBSTANTIALLY DELAY OR, IN THE EXTREME, PREVENT OUR DEVELOPMENT OF AN INDIAN CASINO. The National Environmental Policy Act requires federal agencies to consider the environmental impacts of activities they perform, fund, or permit, as well as alternatives to those activities and ways to mitigate or lessen those impacts. Under the National Environmental Policy Act, federal agencies must prepare an environmental assessment to determine whether the proposed action will have a significant effect on the quality of the environment. If the agency determines that the action will not have a significant effect on the environment, it issues a finding of no significant impact, and the project can move forward; if the agency finds to the contrary, it must then prepare an environmental impact statement, detailing the environmental impacts, alternatives, and mitigation measures. We have not received a decision from the BIA as to whether the Environmental Assessment prepared for the 29 acres adjacent to Monticello Raceway, which we intend to transfer to the United States to trust status for the benefit of the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe upon which to build an Indian casino, satisfies the National Environmental Policy Act. The BIA previously issued a letter on April 6, 2000, in which Kevin Glover, the Assistant Secretary of the Interior, sought the concurrence of New York Governor George Pataki in the Secretarial determination that gaming on the Monticello Raceway site would be in the best interest of the tribe and its members, and not detrimental to the surrounding communities. While this Secretarial determination included an environmental review, it is the current position of the Department of the Interior that a separate review is required by its land acquisition regulations, 25 CFR Part 151,before the land can be taken into trust. This recommendation is not binding on the Secretary of the Interior or the NIGC. The Secretary of the Interior and the NIGC may accept or reject such recommendation, and a risk exists that in light of recent positions taken by the Department of Justice, preparation of an environmental impact statement may be required, which could delay the project. On December 19, 2005, Mr. George T. Skibine, the Acting Deputy Assistant Secretary for Policy and Economic Development of the United States Department of the Interior, sent a letter to Mr. Gregory J. Allen, Senior Assistant Counsel to the Governor of the State of New York, George Pataki, responding to questions raised by Mr. Allen concerning the procedure for transferring the 29 acres of land located adjacent to Monticello Raceway to the United States in trust for the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe. Mr. Skibine's letter, among other things, provided that while the United States Department of the Interior has yet to conclude its review of the transfer of the 29 acres into trust for the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe under the BIA's land acquisition regulations, the United States Department of the Interior has completed its review under the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act and that the United States Department of the Interior, subject to the issuance of a Finding of No Significant Impact under the National Environmental Policy Act, can complete its review under the Bureau of Indian Affair's land acquisition regulations within approximately two months of Governor Pataki's concurrence to the transfer of the 29 acres into trust for the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe. The letter also provided that the Finding of No Significant Impact under the National Environmental Policy Act process is underway and, subject to the review of certain environmental reports, is expected to be completed in March 2006. As the BIA has yet to issue a decision as to whether the Environmental Assessment prepared for the 29 acres adjacent to Monticello Raceway satisfies the National Environmental Policy Act, it is anticipated that the BIA will either (a) uphold the Environmental Assessment, (b) require a full Environmental Impact Study, or (c) request information on specific issues that can be addressed without necessitating a complete Environmental Impact Study. If a full Environmental Impact Study is required, this could result in significant delays to developing an Indian casino with the St. Regis Mohawk tribe at Monticello Raceway. Moreover, the costs involved in obtaining a full Environmental Impact Study may be significant. In any event, even if a Finding of No Significant Impact is issued, a risk exists that parties opposed to such project will commence litigation challenging the issuance of the finding of no significant impact, thereby delaying or preventing the project. With respect to the Cayuga Nation of New York project, no assurance can be given that a finding of no significant impact will be granted, as the land for the casino has yet to be determined and applications to the appropriate governmental authorities for such evaluation have yet to be submitted. 20 A CLASS III GAMING COMPACT BETWEEN THE STATE OF NEW YORK AND THE ST. REGIS MOHAWK TRIBE OR THE CAYUGA NATION OF NEW YORK, AS THE CASE MAY BE, MUST BE NEGOTIATED AND BECOME EFFECTIVE BEFORE SUCH TRIBE CAN OPERATE A CASINO FOR US TO MANAGE. Neither the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe nor the Cayuga Nation of New York can lawfully engage in Class III gaming in the Catskills region of the State of New York unless such tribe and the Governor for the State of New York enter into a Class III gaming compact for such gaming that is approved or deemed approved by the Secretary of the Interior. Although courts have invalidated two other Class III gaming compacts between New York tribes and the State of New York due to lack of legislative authority, the Governor has received requisite legislative authorization to enter into a Class III gaming compact with the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe and the Cayuga Nation of New York in the Catskills region of the State of New York. Such gaming compacts will not be entered into until the appropriate land has been taken into trust by the United States for the benefit of such tribe. The St. Regis Mohawk Tribe previously submitted a draft of their compact to the State of New York for a different location that will need to be resubmitted. Drafts of the proposed compact for the Cayuga Nation of New York have not been submitted by either the State of New York or the tribe to the other for consideration. We expect the State of New York to propose terms for a compact similar to those found in the draft compact previously submitted by the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe and the existing compact between the State of New York and the Seneca Nation of New York, which is the most recent gaming compact that the State has entered into. That compact obligates the Seneca Nation of New York to make payments to the State of New York in amounts of up to 25% of that tribe's net slot revenues. There is no assurance that the State of New York will reach an agreement upon the terms of any revenue sharing arrangement with either the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe or the Cayuga Nation of New York, or any other terms that will result in a compact for Class III gaming. If the State of New York and either the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe or the Cayuga Nation of New York reach agreement and execute a compact for Class III gaming, under the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act of 1988, that compact does not become effective until an approval of the compact by the Secretary of the Interior has been published in the Federal Register. Additionally, the compact could become effective, but only to the extent it is consistent with the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act of 1988, upon publication of a notice in the Federal Register that forty-five days have elapsed after the compact was submitted for approval to the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of the Interior neither approved nor disapproved the compact. No assurance can be given that the Secretary of the Interior will approve the terms of any compact agreed to by the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe and the State of New York or the Cayuga Nation of New York and the State of New York. In particular, the existence of revenue sharing provisions in a compact by which a state receives a share of tribal gaming revenues has provided a basis for the Secretary of the Interior to disapprove a compact. The Indian Gaming Regulatory Act of 1988 generally prohibits a state from imposing a tax on tribes for the privilege of conducting gaming in the state. The Seneca Nation-State of New York gaming compact was neither approved nor disapproved within the required 45-day period, and therefore became effective upon publication of a notice in the Federal Register. In the letter to the Seneca Nation and the Governor of New York, the Secretary of the Interior stated that the State of New York's right to receive up to 25% of gross gaming revenues was primarily based on the State of New York's grant of an extensive area in which the Seneca Nation would have broad exclusive gaming rights. Because the precise terms of a compact between either the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe or the Cayuga Nation of New York have not been formally proposed, let alone agreed upon, there can be no assurance that the Secretary of the Interior will approve the future terms of such a compact. If the Secretary of the Interior disapproves any agreed upon compact, the compact will not become effective and such tribe will not be able to conduct gaming under its terms. Since 2003, a bill has been pending in Congress that would limit a State's right to share in a tribe's gaming revenues unless the State provided the tribe a "substantial economic benefit." We cannot predict if this or other legislation will be enacted or, if enacted, would prevent a gaming compact between either the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe or the Cayuga Nation of New York and the State of New York. WE MAY REQUIRE ADDITIONAL FINANCING IN ORDER TO DEVELOP EITHER OF OUR PROPOSED INDIAN CASINOS AND WE MAY BE UNABLE TO MEET OUR FUTURE CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS AND EXECUTE OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY. Because we may not be able to continue to generate sufficient cash to fund our operations, we may be forced to rely on external financing to develop our Indian casino projects and to meet future capital and operating requirements. Any projections of future cash needs and cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. Our capital requirements depend upon several factors, including the rate of market acceptance, our ability to expand our customer base 21 and increase revenues, our level of expenditures for marketing and sales, purchases of equipment, revenues and other factors. It is likely that we will seek or require additional capital at some point in 2006 through either public or private financings. If our capital requirements vary materially from those currently planned, we may require additional financing sooner than anticipated. We can make no assurance that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us or within the limitations contained in our credit facility with Bank of Scotland or the indenture governing our senior secured convertible notes, if at all. Further, if we issue equity securities, stockholders may experience additional dilution or the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of common stock, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants which could restrict our operations or finances. If we cannot raise funds, if needed, on acceptable terms, we may be required to delay, scale back or eliminate some of our expansion and development goals related to the casino projects and we may not be able to continue our operations, grow market share, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements which could negatively impact our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the construction of the Indian casino projects may depend upon the ability of the respective tribes to obtain financing for the project. In order to assist the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe or the Cayuga Nation of New York, as the case may be, to obtain any such financing, we, or one of our subsidiaries, may be required to guarantee such tribe's debt obligations. Any guarantees by us or one of our subsidiaries or similar off-balance sheet liabilities, if any, will increase our potential exposure in the event of a default by such tribe. OUR MANAGEMENT REVENUES FROM OUR PROPOSED INDIAN CASINOS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY MATTERS ADVERSE TO THE ST. REGIS MOHAWK TRIBE OR THE CAYUGA NATION OF NEW YORK THAT ARE UNRELATED TO US. When constructed, our proposed Indian casino sites will be either owned by a tribal partner, or held by the United States in trust for the benefit of such tribe. We and our subsidiaries will derive revenues from the site based on our management and development contracts. If the proprietary tribe does not adequately shield its gaming operations at the site from obligations arising from its other non-gaming operations, and such tribe suffers a material adverse event such as insolvency, a default or civil damages in a matter in which it did not have sovereign immunity, creditors could attempt to seize some or all of the personal property or profits from the tribe's gaming operations or move to have a receiver or trustee appointed. Such a result could lead to the voidance or indirect modification by a court of our subsidiaries' management and development contracts with such tribe, leading to a material adverse affect on our operations. We may be required by lenders who finance the casino to subordinate all or part of our management fees to the prior payment in full of their financing. In addition, if creditors were to seize any or all of such tribe's revenues from gaming operations, our subsidiaries' management and development agreements with that tribe would be rendered worthless, as the ability to conduct casino style gambling on that property may no longer be permissible. THE CONTINUING DECLINE IN THE POPULARITY OF HORSE RACING AND INCREASING COMPETITION IN SIMULCASTING COULD ADVERSELY IMPACT THE BUSINESS OF MONTICELLO RACEWAY. Since the mid-1980s, there has been a general decline in the number of people attending and wagering at live horse races at North American racetracks due to a number of factors, including increased competition from other forms of gaming, unwillingness of customers to travel a significant distance to racetracks and the increasing availability of off-track wagering. The declining attendance at live horse racing events has prompted racetracks to rely increasingly on revenues from inter-track, off-track and account wagering markets. The industry-wide focus on inter-track, off-track and account wagering markets has increased competition among racetracks for outlets to simulcast their live races. A continued decrease in attendance at live events and in on-track wagering, as well as increased competition in the inter-track, off-track and account wagering markets, could lead to a decrease in the amount wagered at Monticello Raceway. Our business plan anticipates the possibility of Monticello Raceway attracting new customers to its racetrack wagering operations through VGM operations and potential casino development in order to offset the general decline in raceway attendance. However, even if the numerous arrangements, approvals and legislative changes necessary for casino development occur, Monticello Raceway may not be able to maintain profitable operations. Public tastes are unpredictable and subject to change. Any decline in interest in horse racing or any change in public tastes may adversely affect Monticello Raceway's revenues and, therefore, limit its ability to make a positive contribution to our results. 22 WE DEPEND ON OUR KEY PERSONNEL AND THE LOSS OF THEIR SERVICES WOULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATIONS. If we are unable to maintain our key personnel and attract new employees with high levels of expertise in those gaming areas in which we propose to engage, without unreasonably increasing our labor costs, the execution of our business strategy may be hindered and our growth limited. We believe that our success is largely dependent on the continued employment of our senior management and the hiring of strategic key personnel at reasonable costs. If any of our current senior managers were unable or unwilling to continue in his or her present position, or we were unable to attract a sufficient number of qualified employees at reasonable rates, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. SUBSTANTIAL LEVERAGE AND DEBT SERVICE OBLIGATIONS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR CASH FLOW, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. As a result of the issuance of our senior secured notes, our debt service obligations increased substantially. There is the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay the principal or interest on and other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness when due. We may also incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Our level of indebtedness will have several important effects on our future operations, including, without limitation: o a portion of our cash flow from operations will be dedicated to the payment of any interest or principal required with respect to outstanding indebtedness; o increases in our outstanding indebtedness and leverage will increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as to competitive pressure; and o depending on the levels of our outstanding indebtedness, our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, general corporate and other purposes may be limited. Our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which is subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. Our business might not continue to generate cash flow at or above current levels. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required, among other things: o to seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; o to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness, including our senior secured convertible notes; or o to sell selected assets. Such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness. In addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. WE MAY NOT HAVE THE ABILITY TO REPURCHASE OUR SENIOR SECURED CONVERTIBLE NOTES. Upon the occurrence of a change in control (as defined in the indenture governing our senior secured convertible notes), we would be required to repurchase all of our outstanding senior secured convertible notes tendered to us by the holders of such notes. In addition, we may be required to repurchase our senior secured convertible notes on July 31, 2009. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient financial resources, or will be able to arrange financing, to pay the purchase price for all of such notes tendered by the holders in connection with any such repurchase. Any failure to repurchase the notes when required will result in an event of default under the indenture. In addition, the events that constitute a change of control under the indenture may also be events of default under any credit agreement or other agreement governing future debt. These events may permit the lenders under such 23 credit agreement or other agreement to accelerate the debt outstanding thereunder and, if such debt is not paid, to enforce security interests in the collateral securing such debt, thereby limiting our ability to raise cash to purchase the notes, and reducing the practical benefit of the offer to purchase provisions to the holders of the notes. FUTURE SALES OF SHARES OF OUR COMMON STOCK IN THE PUBLIC MARKET OR THE CONVERSION OF OUR SENIOR SECURED CONVERTIBLE NOTES COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE TRADING PRICE OF SHARES OF OUR COMMON STOCK, THE VALUE OF OUR SENIOR SECURED CONVERTIBLE NOTES AND OUR ABILITY TO RAISE FUNDS IN NEW STOCK OFFERINGS. Future sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock in the public market, the conversion of our senior secured convertible notes into shares of our common stock, or the perception that such sales or conversion are likely to occur, could affect prevailing trading prices of our common stock and, as a result, the value of our senior secured convertible notes. As of March 29, 2006, we had 26,259,981 shares of common stock outstanding. Because our senior secured convertible notes generally are initially convertible into shares of our common stock only at a conversion price in excess of the recent trading price, a decline in our common stock price may cause the value of our senior secured convertible notes to decline. In addition, the existence of our senior secured convertible notes may encourage short selling by market participants due to this dilution or facilitate trading strategies involving our senior secured convertible notes and our common stock. On January 12, 2004, 18,219,075 shares of our common stock were issued pursuant to our acquisition of Monticello Raceway Management, Inc. Monticello Casino Management, LLC, Monticello Raceway Development Company, LLC and Mohawk Management, LLC, all of which may be sold to the public pursuant to a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. We also issued 4,050,000 shares of our common stock to multiple investors in February 2004 in a private placement. At December 31, 2005, we also had outstanding options to purchase an aggregate of 2,597,458 shares of common stock at an average exercise price of $4.89 per share and 250,000 warrants at $7.50 per warrant. In addition, pursuant to a stock option agreement dated as of November 12, 2004, as amended, we have outstanding options to purchase 5,188,913 shares at $7.50 per share. If the holders of these shares, options or warrants were to attempt to sell a substantial amount of their holdings at once, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. Moreover, the perceived risk of this potential dilution could cause stockholders to attempt to sell their shares and investors to "short" the stock, a practice in which an investor sells shares that he or she does not own at prevailing market prices, hoping to purchase shares later at a lower price to cover the sale. As each of these events would cause the number of shares of our common stock being offered for sale to increase, the common stock's market price would likely further decline. All of these events could combine to make it very difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. CERTAIN PROVISIONS OF OUR CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION AND BYLAWS DISCOURAGE UNSOLICITED TAKEOVER PROPOSALS AND COULD PREVENT YOU FROM REALIZING A PREMIUM RETURN ON YOUR INVESTMENT IN OUR COMMON STOCK. Our board of directors is divided into three classes, with each class constituting one-third of the total number of directors and the members of each class serving staggered three-year terms. This classification of the board of directors makes it more difficult for our stockholders to change the composition of the board of directors because only a minority of the directors can be elected at once. The classification provisions could also discourage a third party from accumulating our stock or attempting to obtain control of us, even though this attempt might be beneficial to us and some, or a majority, of our stockholders. Accordingly, under certain circumstances our stockholders could be deprived of opportunities to sell their shares of common stock at a higher price than might otherwise be available. In addition, pursuant to our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by the stockholders, to issue up to 3,225,045 shares of preferred stock on such terms and with such rights, preferences and designations, including, without limitation, restricting dividends on our common stock, dilution of our common stock's voting power and impairing the liquidation rights of the holders of our common stock, as the board of directors may determine. Issuance of such preferred stock, depending upon its rights, preferences and designations, may also have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control. YOUR ABILITY TO INFLUENCE CORPORATE DECISIONS MAY BE LIMITED BECAUSE OUR MAJOR STOCKHOLDERS OWN A LARGE PERCENTAGE OF OUR COMMON STOCK. 24 Our significant stockholders own a substantial portion of our outstanding stock. As a result of their stock ownership, if these stockholders were to choose to act together, they may be able to effectively control all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and approval of any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentration of voting power could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company on terms that other stockholders may desire. In addition, as the interests of our majority and minority stockholders may not always be the same, this large concentration of voting power may lead to stockholder votes that are inconsistent with your best interests or the best interest of us as a whole. THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK IS VOLATILE, LEADING TO THE POSSIBILITY OF ITS VALUE BEING DEPRESSED AT A TIME WHEN YOU WANT TO SELL YOUR HOLDINGS. The market price of our common stock has in the past been, and may in the future continue to be, volatile. For instance, between January 1, 2002 and March 29, 2006, the closing bid price of our common stock has ranged between $1.39 and $16.74. A variety of events may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly, including but not necessarily limited to: o quarter to quarter variations in operating results; o adverse news announcements; and o market conditions for the gaming industry. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations for reasons unrelated to operating performance. These market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock and other interests in the Company at a time when you want to sell your interest in us. GENERAL BUSINESS RISKS TERRORISM AND THE UNCERTAINTY OF WAR MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 and the after-effects (including the prospects for more terror attacks in the United States and abroad), combined with recent economic trends and the U.S.-led military action in Iraq had a negative impact on various regions of the United States and on a wide range of industries, including, in particular, the hospitality industry. In particular, the terrorist attacks, as well as the United States war on terrorism, may have an unpredictable effect on general economic conditions and may harm our future results of operations as they may engender apprehension in people who would otherwise be inclined to travel to destination resort areas like the Catskills region of the State of New York. Moreover, in the future, fears of recession, war and additional acts of terrorism may continue to impact the U.S. economy and could negatively impact our business. WE ARE SUBJECT TO GREATER RISKS THAN A GEOGRAPHICALLY DIVERSE COMPANY. Our proposed operations are primarily limited to the Catskills region of the State of New York. As a result, in addition to our susceptibility to adverse global and domestic economic, political and business conditions, any economic downturn in the region could have a material adverse effect on our operations. An economic downturn would likely cause a decline in the disposable income of consumers in the region, which could result in a decrease in the number of patrons at our proposed facilities, the frequency of their visits and the average amount that they would each be willing to spend at the proposed casinos. We are subject to greater risks than more geographically diversified gaming or resort operations and may continue to be subject to these risks upon completion of our expansion projects, including: o a downturn in national, regional or local economic conditions; o an increase in competition in New York State or the Northeastern United States and Canada, particularly for day-trip patrons residing in New York State, including as a result of recent legislation permitting new Indian casinos and VGMs at certain racetracks and other locations in New York, Connecticut and Pennsylvania; 25 o impeded access due to road construction or closures of primary access routes; and o adverse weather and natural and other disasters in the Northeastern United States and Canada. The occurrence of any one of the events described above could cause a material disruption in our business and make us unable to generate sufficient cash flow to make payments on our obligations. OUR BUSINESS COULD BE AFFECTED BY WEATHER-RELATED FACTORS AND SEASONALITY. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by weather-related and seasonal factors. Severe winter weather conditions may deter or prevent patrons from reaching our gaming facilities or undertaking day trips. In addition, some recreational activities are curtailed during the winter months. Although our budget assumes these seasonal fluctuations in gaming revenues for our proposed Indian casinos to ensure adequate cash flow during expected periods of lower revenues, we cannot assure you that weather-related and seasonal factors will not have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to predict the future effects of seasonality on our business, if any. WE ARE VULNERABLE TO NATURAL DISASTERS AND OTHER DISRUPTIVE EVENTS THAT COULD SEVERELY DISRUPT THE NORMAL OPERATIONS OF OUR BUSINESS AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR EARNINGS. Currently, the majority of our operations are located at a facility in Monticello, New York and both of our proposed Indian casinos will be located in the same general geographic area. Although this area is not prone to earthquakes, floods, tornados, fires or other natural disasters, the occurrence of any of these events or any other cause of material disruption in our operation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Moreover, although we do maintain insurance customary for our industry including a policy with a ten million dollar ($10,000,000) limit of coverage for the perils of flood and earthquake, we can not assure that this coverage will be sufficient in the event of one of the disasters mentioned above. WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO MATERIAL ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITY AS A RESULT OF UNKNOWN ENVIRONMENTAL HAZARDS. We currently own 232 acres of land. As a significant land holder, we are subject to numerous environmental laws. Specifically, under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases on or relating to its property and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury and for investigation and cleanup costs incurred by such parties in connection with the contamination. Such laws typically impose cleanup responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner knew of or caused the presence of contaminants. The costs of investigation, remediation or removal of such substances may be substantial. POTENTIAL CHANGES IN THE REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. From time to time, legislators and special interest groups have proposed legislation that would expand, restrict or prevent gaming operations in the jurisdictions in which we operate or intend to operate. For example, Senator John McCain of Arizona, the chairman of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee, has recently announced that he is calling for hearings on all aspects of Indian gaming. In addition, from time to time, certain anti-gaming groups propose referenda that, if adopted, could force us to curtail operations and incur significant losses. WE ARE DEPENDENT ON THE STATE OF NEW YORK, SULLIVAN COUNTY, THE TOWN OF THOMPSON AND THE VILLAGE OF MONTICELLO TO PROVIDE OUR PROPOSED FACILITIES WITH CERTAIN NECESSARY SERVICES. New York State Governor George Pataki has proposed legislation that would result in up to five Indian casinos being developed in Sullivan County. It is uncertain whether the local governments have the ability to support this level of economic development. The demands place upon the local governments by these expansion efforts may be beyond the infrastructure capabilities that these entities are able to provide. The failure of the State of New York, Sullivan County, the Town of Thompson or the Village of Monticello to provide certain 26 necessary services such as water, sanitation, law enforcement and fire protection, or to be able to support increased traffic demands for our proposed facilities, would have a material adverse effect on our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 