Risk Factors—Dependence on Sole and Single Source Suppliers” and, “—Risks of International Operations” for a discussion of risks associated with concentrating production activities at one facility that is outside the United States. Concentration of Control—Our Chief Executive Officer and certain directors retain significant control over us, which may allow them to decide the outcome of matters submitted to stockholders for approval. This influence may not be beneficial to all stockholders. As of February 29, 2008, Paul A. Marshall, our President and Chief Executive Officer and a member of our Board, and Robert C. Pfeiffer, a member of our Board, beneficially owned approximately 23% and 12%, respectively, of our outstanding shares of common stock. Consequently, these two individuals together control approximately 35% of our outstanding shares of common stock and, to the extent that they act together, may be able to control the election of our directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions that must be submitted to a vote of the stockholders. In addition, Messrs. Marshall and Pfeiffer constitute two of the five members of our Board and have significant influence in directing the actions taken by the Board. Further, to our knowledge, as of February 26, 2008, Paul Ker-Chin Chang, our former Chief Executive Officer, President and Chairman of the Board, continued to hold approximately 10% of our outstanding shares of common stock. To the extent that Mr. Chang acts together with Messrs. Marshall and Pfeiffer, the three individuals together control approximately 45% of our outstanding shares. The interests of these persons may conflict with the interests of other stockholders, and the actions they take or approve may be contrary to those desired by other stockholders. This concentration of ownership and control of the management and affairs of us may also delay or prevent a change in control of us that other stockholders may consider desirable. In addition, conflict among the controlling stockholders may adversely impact their ability to take joint actions in the best interests of us and our other stockholders. Potential Product Liability—Our products are complex, and our failure to detect errors and defects may subject us to costly repairs and product returns under warranty and product liability litigation. Our products are complex and may contain undetected defects or errors when first introduced or as enhancements are released. These errors may occur despite our testing and may not be discovered until after a product has been shipped and used by our customers. Many of the products that we ship contain imperfections that we consider to be insignificant at the time of shipment. We may misjudge the seriousness of a product imperfection and allow the product to be shipped to our customers. These risks are compounded by the fact that we offer many products with multiple hardware and software modifications, which makes it more difficult to ensure high standards of quality control in our manufacturing process. The existence of these errors or defects could result in costly repairs and/or returns of products under warranty and, more generally, in delayed market acceptance of the product or damage to our reputation and business. In addition, the terms of our customer agreements and purchase orders which provide us with protection against unwarranted claims of product defects and errors may not protect us adequately from unwarranted claims against us, unfair verdicts if a claim were to go to trial, settlement of these kinds of claims, or future regulations or laws regarding our products. Our defense against such claims in the future, regardless of their merit, could result in substantial expense to us, diversion of management time and attention, and damage to our business reputation and our ability to retain existing customers or attract new customers. 24 Table of Contents Intellectual Property Risks—Policing any unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties and defending any intellectual property infringement claims against us could be expensive and disrupt our business. Our intellectual property and proprietary technology are an important part of our business, and we depend on the development and use of various forms of intellectual property and proprietary technology. As a result, we are subject to several risks associated with our intellectual property assets, including the risks of unauthorized use of our intellectual property and the costs of protecting our intellectual property. Most of our intellectual property and proprietary technology is not protected by patents, and as a result our intellectual property may not be adequately protected. If unauthorized persons were to copy, obtain, or otherwise misappropriate our intellectual property or proprietary technology, the value of our investment in research and development would decline, our reputation and brand could be diminished, and we would likely suffer a decline in revenues. We believe these risks, which are present in any business in which intellectual property and proprietary technology play an important role, are exacerbated by the difficulty in monitoring and detecting the unauthorized use of intellectual property in our business, the increasing incidence of patent infringement in our industry in general, and the difficulty of enforcing intellectual property rights in some foreign countries. Although our employees are subject to confidentiality obligations, this protection may be inadequate to deter or prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual property or proprietary technology. Our inability to protect our intellectual property or proprietary technology may adversely affect our competitive business position. Litigation has in the past been, and may in the future be, necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and/or defend against the accusations of others. This kind of litigation is time-consuming and expensive to prosecute and resolve and results in a substantial diversion of management resources. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in this type of litigation, that our intellectual property rights will be held valid and enforceable in any litigation, or that we will otherwise be able to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology. In the future, we may receive notices from holders of patents that raise issues as to possible infringement by our products. As the number of telecommunications test, measurement, and network management products increases and the functionality of these products further overlap, we believe that we may become subject to allegations of infringement given the nature of the telecommunications industry and the high incidence of these kinds of claims. Questions of infringement and the validity of patents in the field of telecommunications technologies involve highly technical and subjective analyses. These kinds of proceedings are time consuming and expensive to defend or resolve, result in a substantial diversion of management resources, cause product shipment delays, and could force us to enter into royalty or license agreements rather than dispute the merits of the proceedings initiated against us. Acquisitions—We have in the past acquired multiple companies and lines of business, and we may pursue additional acquisitions in the future. These activities involve numerous risks, including the use of cash, acquired intangible assets, and the diversion of management attention. We have acquired multiple companies and lines of business in the past. As a result of these acquisitions, we face numerous risks, including the following: • integrating the existing management, sales force, technicians and other personnel into one culture and business; • integrating manufacturing, administrative and management information and other control systems into our existing systems; • developing and implementing an integrated business strategy over what had previously been independent companies; 25 Table of Contents • developing compatible or complementary products and technologies from previously independent operations; and • pre-acquisition liabilities associated with the companies or intellectual property acquired, or both. The risks stated above are increased by the fact that most of the companies and assets that we have acquired are located outside of the United States, which makes integration more difficult and costly. In addition, if we make future acquisitions, these risks will be exacerbated by the need to integrate additional operations at a time when we may not have fully integrated all of our previous acquisitions. If we pursue additional acquisitions, we will face similar risks as those outlined above and additional risks, including the following: • the diversion of our management’s attention and the expense of identifying and pursuing suitable acquisition candidates, whether or not an acquisition is consummated; • negotiating and closing these transactions; • the possible need to fund these acquisitions by dilutive issuances of equity securities or by incurring debt; and • the potential negative effect on our financial statements from an increase in other intangibles, write-off of research and development costs, and high costs and expenses from completing acquisitions. We cannot ensure that we will locate suitable acquisition candidates or that, if we do, we will be able to acquire them and then integrate them effectively, efficiently, and successfully into our business. Goodwill Valuation—Our financial results could be materially and adversely affected if it is determined that the book value of goodwill is higher than the fair value. Our balance sheet at December 31, 2006 included an amount designated as “Goodwill” of $12.6 million. Goodwill arises when an acquirer pays more for a business than the fair value of the acquired tangible and separately measurable intangible net assets. Under accounting pronouncement SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (“SFAS 142”), beginning in January 2002, the amortization of goodwill has been replaced with an “impairment test,” which requires that we compare the fair value of goodwill to its book value at least annually, and more frequently, if circumstances indicate a possible impairment. Our impairment test is based on a market capitalization analysis. Accordingly, if our market capitalization were to diminish significantly, the book value of goodwill could be higher than the fair value, and we would need to record a non-cash impairment charge for the difference, which could materially and adversely affect our net income or loss. Dependence on Key Employees—If one or more of our senior managers were to leave, we could experience difficulty in replacing them and our operating results could suffer. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service and performance of a relatively small number of key senior management, technical, sales, and marketing personnel. If any of our senior managers were to leave us, we would need to devote substantial resources and management attention to replace them. As a result, management attention may be diverted from managing our business, and we may need to pay higher compensation to replace these employees. We do not have employment contracts with, or key person life insurance for, any of our personnel. During 2006, following the loss of a number of key employees, we announced the adoption of a retention bonus program and other inducements to reward long-term employees who remained employed with us. Competition for skilled employees is intense, especially in the San Francisco Bay Area where our main operations are located, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to recruit and retain such personnel. 26 Table of Contents Anti-takeover Provisions—Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents could prevent or delay a change of control and, as a result, negatively impact our stockholders. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of discouraging, delaying, or preventing a change in control of our company or unsolicited acquisition proposals that a stockholder may consider favorable. These provisions provide for the following: • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock; • a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; • prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; • requiring super-majority voting to effect certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and by-laws; • limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholders meetings. Some provisions of Delaware law and our stock incentive plans may also have the effect of discouraging, delaying, or preventing a change in control of our company or unsolicited acquisition proposals. These provisions could also limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Effectiveness of Internal Controls—We will be required to evaluate our system of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007 and our independent auditor will be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls as of December 31, 2008. Any deficiencies found in our internal control over financial reporting or the inability of our independent auditor to conclude on the effectiveness could negatively impact our stock price. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. We will be required, beginning with our 2007 Form 10-K, to include in our annual report our management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. Furthermore, our independent auditor will be required to report on whether it believes we maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. If we determine that our internal controls have significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, our ability to report financial results reliably could be questioned and investors might lose confidence in our reports. In addition, inadequate internal controls could cause us to fail to meet our regulatory reporting obligations. Any of these failures could adversely affect the price of our common stock. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our website is http://www.sunrisetelecom.com. We make available free of charge, on or through our website, our annual, quarterly and current reports, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such reports with the SEC. Information contained on our website is not part of this report. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 27 Table of Contents 