ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business because these factors may have a significant impact on our business, prospects, operating results or financial condition. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements contained in this report as a result of the risk factors discussed below and elsewhere in this report. Liquidity—Our lack of liquid funds and other sources of financing may limit our ability to maintain our existing operations, grow our business and compete effectively. Our continued losses from operations and cash used in operating activities have reduced our cash and cash equivalents in 2007 and 2008. As of August 31, 2008, we had approximately $11 million in cash and cash equivalents and $3.0 million was outstanding under our revolving credit agreement with Silicon Valley Bank. In the future, we may need to borrow through additional debt, equipment loans, lease lines of credit, asset-based financings, mortgages or other financing arrangements to finance capital expenditures and working capital for our business. It is possible that we may continue to use cash in operating activities and may become unable to pay our ordinary operating expenses, including our debt service, on a timely basis. Our lack of liquidity could harm us by: • increasing our vulnerability to adverse conditions in our industry; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; • requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be used for debt service, thereby reducing cash flow available for other purposes, including operating expenditures; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and • affecting perceptions by investors and customers about our financial stability thereby further limiting our ability to obtain additional financing and to acquire and retain customers. We have been delisted from NASDAQ and we are not in compliance with SEC reporting requirements, making it generally more difficult to obtain equity or debt financing on financially attractive or acceptable terms. Further, the recent downturn in the equity and debt markets generally makes it more difficult for us to obtain financing through the issuance of equity or debt securities in the capital markets. We cannot be certain that additional financing will be available if needed and to the extent required or, if available, on acceptable terms. If we cannot raise necessary additional funds on acceptable terms, there could be a material adverse impact on our business and operations. We also may not be able to fund expansion, take advantage of future opportunities, meet our existing debt obligations or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements. Further, if we issue additional equity or debt securities, stockholders may experience additional dilution or the new equity securities may have rights, preference or privileges senior to those of existing holders of our common stock. 14 Table of Contents Stock Option Granting Practices—Our investigation of our historical stock option granting practices and resulting financial restatements and litigation have had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Based on our investigation of our historical stock option granting practices, we concluded that we had improperly accounted for options to purchase an aggregate of 1,377,970 shares of our common stock that were awarded in January 2001 and June 2002. As a result, we recorded a total of $5.6 million in additional stock-based compensation expense for the years 2001 through 2005, net of forfeitures related to employee terminations. These expenses had the effect of decreasing income from operations, net income and net income per share (basic and diluted) in the affected periods in which we reported a profit, and increasing loss from operations, net loss and net loss per share in the affected periods in which we reported a loss. As a result, in connection with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, which we filed with the SEC on November 2, 2007, we restated our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2004 and the consolidated statements of operations, stockholders’ equity and comprehensive loss, and cash flows for each of the years in the two-year period ended December 31, 2004, each of the quarters of 2004 and the first two quarters of 2005 as well as our financial statements for fiscal 2001 and 2002 presented in selected financial data in Part II, Item 6, “Selected Financial Data” presented in our 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 2, 2007. Our senior management team and our Board of Directors have devoted a significant amount of time on matters relating to the restatement, our outstanding periodic reports, remedial efforts and related litigation. In addition, some members of our senior management team and our Board of Directors are named defendants in a lawsuit alleging violations of federal securities laws related to the restatement. Defending these actions may require significant time and attention from members of our current senior management team and our Board of Directors. If our senior management is unable to devote a significant amount of time in the future developing and attaining our strategic business initiatives and running ongoing business operations, there may be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Material Weaknesses in Internal Control over Financial Reporting—We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the past and cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. If our internal controls or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective, there may be material errors in our financial statements that are not identified in a timely manner and that could require restatement, or our filings may not be timely, and investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, any of which could lead to a decline in our stock price. Management concluded that there remained a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007 and as a result, the Company did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. We identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting associated with deficiencies in our staffing requirements and policy regarding the timely filling of key financial positions at one of our operating divisions which impacted the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. We do not expect that our internal control over financial reporting will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by the collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. Over time, controls may become inadequate because changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may occur. In addition, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system. As a result, significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls may be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, cause 15 Table of Contents us to fail to timely meet our periodic reporting obligations, result in material misstatements in our financial statements and/or cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, all of which could lead to a decline in our stock price. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding disclosure controls and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Costs of Being a Public Company—As a public company we are required to comply with many financial accounting, disclosure and governance rules that impose financial and management burdens on us. As a public company, we are subject to many financial accounting, disclosure and governance requirements, with relatively high associated compliance costs. For example, we must have our annual financial statements audited and our quarterly statements reviewed by an independent registered public accounting firm, and we must prepare, review and file annual, quarterly and current reports with the SEC. Costs of these and other compliance activities are particularly significant to us because of our small size and our financial position. We have reviewed proposals to make the Company more successful with its current capital structure and with alternative ones. The process of evaluating different alternatives and proposals is time consuming, expensive, and distracts management attention from the operations of the Company. Moreover, so long as we are not current in our SEC filings, our opportunities are more limited. If we are not able to file all our delinquent reports, our financial condition and stockholder confidence in our company may be harmed. Even if we do file all our delinquent reports, we may not be able to comply with all the requirements of being a public company on a regular basis in the future, or we may be unable to reduce the costs of compliance or increase our revenue or profitability sufficiently to cover those costs. Stockholder Litigation—We have been named as a party to a stockholder derivative action lawsuit arising from our investigation of our historical stock option granting practices and the subsequent restatement of our financial statements and may be named as a party to additional derivative action lawsuits, which could require significant management time and attention and result in significant legal expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are currently engaged in civil litigation with a party that claims, among other allegations, that certain of our current and former officers and directors improperly dated stock option grants to enhance their own profits on the exercise of such options or for other improper purposes, and we may become the subject of additional private lawsuits based on our historical stock option granting practices and the subsequent restatement of our financial statements. The expense of defending such litigation may be significant. We have entered into indemnification agreements with each of our present and former officers and directors and if we incur indemnification obligations in connection with the pending stockholder derivative litigation or otherwise, this could affect adversely our financial condition. Moreover, the amount of time to resolve such litigation and potential additional lawsuits is unpredictable and defending the lawsuit may divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could harm our business, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, an unfavorable outcome in such lawsuits, such as a court judgment against us resulting in monetary damages or penalties, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. Delisting from NASDAQ and Compliance with SEC Reporting Requirements—Our common stock was delisted from the NASDAQ Stock Market, which could adversely affect the price of our stock and the ability of our stockholders to trade in our stock. We have not been in compliance with SEC reporting requirements and if we are unable to remain in compliance with SEC reporting requirements, there may be a material adverse effect on us and our stock price. Due to our Audit Committee investigation of our business practices, the independent investigation of our historical stock option granting practices, and the restatement activities as a result of the stock option investigation, we were unable to timely file our periodic reports with the SEC. As a result, we were not in compliance with the filing 16 Table of Contents requirements for continued listing on the NASDAQ Stock Market and, consequently, our common stock was delisted from the NASDAQ Stock Market in December 2005 and subsequently began trading on the Pink Sheets under the symbol “SRTI.PK.” To the extent that we attempt to relist our common stock on NASDAQ or another exchange, it would be uncertain when, if ever, our common stock would be relisted. In addition, as a result of our delay in filing periodic reports on a timely basis, we will not be eligible to use a registration statement on Form S-3 to register offers and sales of our securities until all periodic reports have been timely filed for at least twelve months after we have filed all required reports. We have been unable to remain current in the filing of our periodic reports with the SEC, and our efforts to become current may require substantial management time and attention as well as additional accounting and legal expense. As a result of our restatement, we experienced significant delays in the filing of our periodic reports. In addition, if we are unable to become current in our filings with the SEC, we may face several adverse consequences. If we are unable to remain current in our filings with the SEC, investors in our securities will not have information regarding our business and financial condition with which to make decisions regarding investment in our securities. In addition, we will not be able to have a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, covering a public offering of securities, declared effective by the SEC, and will not be able to make offerings pursuant to existing registration statements pursuant to certain “private placement” rules of the SEC under Regulation D to any purchasers not qualifying as “accredited investors.” These restrictions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. NASDAQ Delisting—Because we are not listed on a national exchange, we could have problems hiring and retaining our personnel. We may face challenges in hiring and retaining qualified personnel due to the restatement, the related internal investigations and our delisting from NASDAQ. We depend on our employees and on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Given the lengthy restatement process, the related internal investigations and the delisting of our common stock from NASDAQ, it may become more difficult to retain key personnel, including members of our finance team. Our inability to hire qualified personnel and retain existing key personnel has disrupted, and may continue to disrupt, our ability to effectively manage our business and to complete our outstanding periodic reports. In addition, the loss of the services of any of our key employees, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel in the future, or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineers and sales personnel, could delay the development and introduction of, and negatively affect our ability to sell, our products. We will not apply to relist our common stock on a national securities exchange until we have filed all reports required to be filed with the SEC. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain listing of our common stock on a national securities exchange. We may decide it is not in our stockholders’ best interests to apply for a listing on a national securities exchange once we become current with our SEC reporting requirements. Long-term Impact of Cost Controls—The actions we have taken and may take in response to the slowdowns in demand for our products and services could have long-term adverse effects on our business. From time to time, our business experiences lower revenues due to decreased or cancelled customer orders. To scale back our operations and to reduce our expenses in response to decreased demand for our products and services and lower revenue, we have in the past reduced our workforce, restricted hiring, reduced salaries, restricted pay increases, reduced discretionary spending, and relocated or closed some of our operations. On February 6, 2008, we announced a restructuring plan intended to reduce costs and improve operating efficiencies. The plan included a 12% reduction in our worldwide workforce, across all functional areas, and a shut-down of certain international offices. 17 Table of Contents On May 1, 2008, we also announced our plans to restructure our operations to more closely align them with our key strategic focus and more effectively target the residential triple play market, enhanced business services and the converging core network. We announced that we would combine our broadband and wireline and fiber optics operations. As a result of combining our business units and operations, we are likely to reduce or eliminate investment in some or all of them, reduce or eliminate product lines, reduce or eliminate our sales presence in certain geographies, reduce our market share and likely reduce our revenues. As a part of a reduction in workforce associated with our restructuring and streamlining efforts, we released from service our Chief Operating Officer, Gerhard Beenen, effective June 30, 2008. We may be unable to reduce expenditures quickly enough, and sustain them at a level necessary to restore profitability, and we may have to undertake further restructuring initiatives that would entail additional charges. Cost-cutting initiatives may impair our future ability to develop and market products effectively, to manage and control our business, and to remain competitive. Moreover, cost reducing measures are time-consuming, can be costly to implement and can lead to a diminished quality of our products. Each of the above measures could have long-term effects on our business by reducing our pool of employee talent, decreasing or slowing improvements in our products, making it more difficult for us to respond to customers, limiting our ability to increase production quickly if, and when, the demand for our products increases, and limiting our ability to hire and retain key personnel. These circumstances could cause our revenue and earnings to be lower than they otherwise might be. Goodwill Valuation—Our financial results could be materially and adversely affected if we determine that the book value of our goodwill is higher than the fair value. Our balance sheet at December 31, 2007 included an amount designated as “Goodwill” of $12.7 million. Current accounting rules require that goodwill be assessed for impairment at least annually or whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable from estimated future cash flows. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstance indicating the carrying value of our intangible assets, including goodwill, may not be recoverable include, but are not limited to, significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, a significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization, and negative industry or economic trends. For example, our stock price has declined in 2008 and our market capitalization has been consistently below our net asset value during the third quarter of 2008. This decline in our market capitalization could lead to an impairment charge. Additionally, we periodically evaluate the recoverability and the amortization period of our acquired technology rights. Some factors we consider important in assessing whether or not impairment exists include performance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results. Although we have not recorded any impairment charges to date as a result of our annual and other periodic evaluations, we cannot assure you that future impairment charges may not occur. If we determine that we need to write-down our intangible assets, including goodwill, to their fair value, we may incur material charges that could harm our results of operations and financial condition. Stock Option Issuance and Exercise of Existing Options—We have not issued option grants since August 2005 and option holders have not been permitted to exercise options since December 2005. Because we are not current in our SEC filings, the Compensation Committee has not approved any grants of new options since August 2005, and option holders have not been able to exercise stock options since December 2005. Some options that would otherwise be exercisable have expired unexercised and purchases under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan have been suspended. The purpose of our various share-based compensation plans is to attract, motivate, retain, and reward employees, directors, and consultants by enabling them to acquire or increase their proprietary interest in our common stock in order to strengthen the mutuality of interests between such persons and our stockholders and to provide such persons 18 Table of Contents with annual and long-term performance incentives to focus their best efforts in the creation of stockholder value. As long as these equity compensation plans are not available to us, we have less available means of compensating and providing incentives to employees, directors and consultants, which may harm our business and financial results. The failure to meet employee expectations could harm our ability to retain and motivate our employees. In addition, current and former employees who were unable to exercise in-the-money vested stock options before the options expired may have claims against the Company. As a result, we are offering compensation to those affected current and former employees provided that they execute and return a limited release of potential claims. The proposed compensation being offered represents the difference between (i) the average closing price of the Company’s common stock during the applicable period (further defined below) and (ii) the exercise price of the option (assuming the option was “in-the-money”), multiplied by the number of shares that were vested under the option at the beginning of the applicable period. If an option expired 30 days after termination of employment, the applicable period is the 30 days following termination of employment. If an option expired 90 days after termination of employment, the applicable period is the 90 days following termination of employment. If an option expired during employment because of its ten year term, the applicable period is the 30 days prior to the expiration of the option. We estimate that the aggregate cost of resolving this matter with our option holders is approximately $0.3 million and that the aggregate cost related to any options that expire in the future due to terminations or expiration of the term will not be material. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act—Our international operations are subject to anti-corruption laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and any violations could lead to sanctions against us that could harm our business and our financial condition. Our operations are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and similar anti-corruption laws of other countries. The FCPA generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or maintaining business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment. The FCPA also requires companies to maintain adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately reflect the transactions of the companies. Under the FCPA, U.S. companies may be held liable for actions taken by their strategic or local partners or representatives. The FCPA and similar laws in other countries can impose civil and criminal penalties for violations. If we do not properly implement practices and controls with respect to compliance with the FCPA and similar laws, or if we fail to enforce those practices and controls properly, we may be subject to regulatory sanctions. For example, the SEC and the U.S. Department of Justice (the “DOJ”) may assert that we have violated the FCPA, which could lead to fines against us and other penalties or remedies, such as appointment of a monitor or suspension of our ability to contract with U. S. or foreign governmental agencies. Investigations or sanctions by the SEC and DOJ in connection with FCPA enforcement, and internal investigations into whether or not violations have occurred, can be expensive and time-consuming for us. Any of these outcomes may have an adverse effect on our business, and could adversely affect our financial results and financial condition. Change in SEC Guidance and Disclosure Requirements—Judgments and estimates utilized by us in determining stock option grant dates and related adjustments in connection with the restatement of our consolidated financial statements may be subject to change due to subsequent SEC guidance or other disclosure requirements. In determining the financial restatement adjustments in connection with our investigation of our historical stock option granting practices, we used all reasonably available relevant information to form conclusions we believe are appropriate as to the most likely option granting actions that occurred, the dates when such actions occurred, and the determination of grant dates for financial accounting purposes based on when the requirements of the accounting standards were met. We considered various alternatives throughout the course of our investigation and the restatement 19 Table of Contents of our financial statements, and we believe the approaches used were appropriate, and the choices of measurement dates used in our investigation of stock option grant accounting and restatement of our financial statements were reasonable and appropriate in our circumstances. Nevertheless, the issues surrounding our historical stock option granting practices are complex and the regulatory guidelines or requirements continue to evolve. There can be no assurance that the SEC will not issue additional guidance on disclosure requirements related to the financial impact of past stock option grant measurement date errors and that we will not be required to further amend this report or other filings with the SEC to provide additional disclosures pursuant to such additional guidance. Any such circumstance could also lead to future delays in filing our subsequent SEC reports. Furthermore, if we are subject to adverse findings in any of these matters, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed upon us which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Quarterly Fluctuations—Because our quarterly operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future, our stock price may be volatile. We have experienced significant fluctuations in our quarterly results and we expect that our quarterly operating results will fluctuate significantly and unpredictably. Many factors could cause our operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter, including the following: • the size and timing of orders from our customers, and limitations on our ability to ship these orders on a timely basis; • the uneven pace of technological innovation, the development of products responding to these technological innovations by us and our competitors, and customer acceptance of these products and innovations; • the variety of price, product, and technology competition; • the proportion of our sales that is domestic or international; • the mix of the products we sell and the varied margins associated with these products; • developments relating to our ongoing litigation; and • economic downturns reducing demand for telecommunication and cable equipment and services. The factors listed above may affect our business and stock price in several ways. Given our high fixed costs from overhead, research and development, and selling and marketing, and other activities necessary to run our business, if our net sales are below our expectations in any quarter, we may not be able to adjust spending accordingly. Our stock price may decline and may be volatile, particularly if public market analysts and investors perceive that the factors listed above may contribute to unfavorable changes in operating results. Furthermore, the above factors, taken together, may make it more difficult for us to issue additional equity in the future or raise debt financing to fund future acquisitions and accelerate growth. Consolidation and Other Risks Within the Telecommunications Industry—Our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected by consolidation among our principal customers, the uncertainty of end-user demand for the telecommunication services they provide, and the risk of regulatory changes in the telecommunications industry. In recent years, the telecommunications industry has experienced rapid growth. The growth led to technology innovation, intense competition, short product life cycles, and regulatory uncertainty worldwide. It is difficult for companies operating in this industry to forecast future trends and developments, particularly forecasting customer acceptance of competing technologies. Moreover, the continued growth of end-user demand for telecommunications services is uncertain and difficult to predict. Such uncertainties may lead telecommunications companies to postpone investments in their businesses and purchases of related equipment, such as our products. 20 Table of Contents The telecommunications industry has also experienced consolidation, such as among incumbent local exchange carriers and competitive local exchange carriers, some of which are major customers. For example, GTE and Bell Atlantic, both of which were customers of ours, merged to create Verizon Communications Inc. and Southwestern Bell, Pacific Bell, Ameritech, Bell South, and AT&T have consolidated and now operate as AT&T, Inc. Continued consolidation in the telecommunication industry may cause delay or cancellation of orders for our products. The consolidation of our customers will likely provide them with greater negotiating leverage with us and may lead them to pressure us to lower the prices of our products. Dependence on Wireline Access Products—Historically, a significant portion of our sales has been from our wireline access products, which makes our future sales and overall business vulnerable to product obsolescence and technological change in the wireline field. Sales of our DSL and other wireline access products accounted for approximately 36% of our net sales for both of the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. Currently, our DSL products are primarily used by a limited number of incumbent local exchange carriers, including the regional Bell operating companies, and competitive local exchange carriers who offer DSL services. These parties, and other Internet service providers and users, are continuously evaluating alternative high-speed data access technologies, including cable modems, fiber optics, wireless technology, and satellite technologies, and may, at any time, adopt these competing technologies. These competing technologies may ultimately prove to be superior to DSL services and continue to reduce or eliminate the demand for our DSL products. Cable Broadband Industry Health—Many companies in the cable broadband industry have incurred significant amounts of debt and operating losses, and face increasing competition from direct broadcast satellite and telecom service providers, which may negatively impact our cable equipment sales. The cable broadband industry has taken on significant debt as companies aggressively consolidate and build new digital networks to allow them to provide better picture quality, internet access, and voice telephony. As a result, cable companies may reduce their capital expenditures and hiring, either of which could adversely impact our cable business more than we currently anticipate. Customer Concentration—Our customers are concentrated in the telecommunications and cable broadband industries, which makes our future success dependent on the buying patterns of these customers and their continued demand for our products. In addition, a limited number of customers account for a high percentage of our net sales, and any adverse effect on these customers or our relationship with these customers could cause our net sales to decrease. Our customers are concentrated in the telecommunications and cable broadband industries. Accordingly, our future success depends on the buying patterns of these customers and the continued demand by these customers for our products. Additionally, the market is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, changes in end-user requirements and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. See “Risk Factors—Consolidation and Other Risks within the Telecommunications Industry” for a discussion of risks associated with the telecommunications industry. Our continued success will depend upon our ability to enhance existing products and to develop and introduce, on a timely basis, new products and features that keep pace with technological developments and emerging standards. Moreover, a relatively small number of customers account for a large percentage of our net sales. Net sales from our top five customers accounted for approximately 27% of total net sales in 2007, 28% in 2006, and 22% in 2005. In general, our customers are not subject to long-term supply contracts with us and are not obligated to purchase a specific amount of products from us or to provide us with binding forecasts of purchases for any period. 21 Table of Contents Historically, a significant portion of our net sales have come from a small number of relatively large orders from a limited number of large customers. We anticipate that our operating results for a given period will be dependent on a limited number of customers. The loss of a major customer or the reduction, delay, or cancellation of orders from one or more of our significant customers could cause our net sales and, therefore, profits to decline. In addition, many of our customers are able to exert substantial negotiating leverage over us. As a result, they may pressure us to lower our prices to them, and they may successfully negotiate other terms and provisions that may adversely affect our business and profits. Product Development—If we are unable to develop new products successfully and enhance our existing products, our future success may be threatened. The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological advances, changes in customer requirements and preferences, evolving industry and customer-specific protocol standards, and frequent new product enhancements and introductions. Our existing products and our products currently under development could be rendered obsolete or otherwise abandoned because of the introduction of products involving competing technologies, by the evolution of alternative technologies or new industry protocol standards, by rival products of our competitors, market timing, or product design flaws. These market conditions are even more complex and challenging because of the high degree to which the telecommunications industry is fragmented. We believe our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability, on a timely and cost-effective basis, to continue to do the following: • anticipate and respond to varied and rapidly changing customer preferences and requirements, a process made more challenging by our customers’ buying patterns; • anticipate and develop new products and solutions for networks based on emerging technologies, characterized by evolving industry standards; • invest in research and development to enhance our existing products and to introduce new verification and diagnostic products for the telecommunications, internet, cable network and other markets; and • support our products by investing in effective advertising, marketing, and customer support. We cannot ensure that we will accomplish these objectives, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse impact on our market share, business, and financial results. Furthermore, our expenditures devoted to research and development may be considered high for our level of sales. If these efforts do not result in the development of products that generate strong sales for us or if we do not reduce these expenditures, our profit levels will not return to their desired levels. If we reduce this spending, we may not be able to develop needed new products, which could negatively impact our sources of new revenues. Sales Implementation Cycles—The length and unpredictability of the sales and implementation cycles for our products make it difficult to forecast revenues. Sales of our products often entail an extended decision-making process on the part of prospective customers. We frequently experience delays following initial contact with a prospective customer and expend substantial funds and management effort pursuing these contacts. Our ability to forecast the timing and amount of specific sales is therefore limited. As a result, the uneven buying patterns of our customers may cause fluctuations in our operating results, which could cause our stock price to decline. 22 Table of Contents Other sources of delays that lead to long sales cycles, or even to a sales loss, include current and potential customers’ internal budgeting procedures, internal approval and contracting procedures, procurement practices, and testing and acceptance processes. Recently, our customers’ budgeting procedures have lengthened. The sales cycle for larger deployments now typically ranges from six to twenty-four months. The deferral or loss of one or more significant sales could significantly affect our operating results, especially if there are significant selling and marketing expenses associated with deferred or lost sales. Managing Growth and Slowdowns—We may have difficulty managing expansions and contractions in our operations, which could reduce our chances of maintaining or restoring our profitability. We experienced rapid growth in revenues and in our business during 1999 and 2000 followed by significant slowdowns in 2001 and 2002, which were then followed by sales increases in subsequent years. In particular, we experienced rapid growth in revenues between 2005 and 2006. These periods of expansion and contraction in our revenues and operations have placed, and may continue to place, a significant strain on our management and operations. As a result of our historical growth and potential future growth or slowdowns, we face several risks, including the following: • the need to improve our operational, financial, management, informational and control systems; • the need to hire, train and retain highly skilled personnel; and • the challenge to manage expense reductions without impacting development strategies or our long-term goals. We cannot ensure that we will be able to manage growth or slowdowns successfully, or that we will be able to achieve or sustain profitability. Manufacturing Capacity—If demand for our products does not match our manufacturing capacity, our earnings may suffer. We cannot immediately adapt our production capacity and related cost structures to rapidly changing demand for our products. When demand does not meet our expectations or manufacturing capacity exceeds our production requirements, profitability may decline. Conversely, if during a market upturn we cannot increase our manufacturing capacity to meet product demand, we will not be able to fulfill orders in a timely manner, which in turn may have a negative effect on our earnings and overall business. Competition—Competition could reduce our market share and decrease our net sales. The market for our products is fragmented and intensely competitive, both inside and outside of the United States, and is subject to rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, regulatory developments, and varied and changing customer preferences and requirements. We compete with a number of United States and international suppliers that vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the products and services offered. Many of these competitors have longer operating histories, larger installed customer bases, longer relationships with customers, wider name recognition and product offerings, and greater financial, technical, marketing, customer service and other resources than we have. We expect that as our industry and markets evolve, new competitors or alliances among competitors with existing and new technologies may emerge and acquire significant market share. We anticipate that competition in our markets will increase, and we will face continued challenges to our market share and price pressure on our products. Also, over time, our profitability, if any, may decrease. In addition, it is difficult to assess accurately the market share of each of our products and lines of products because of the high degree of fragmentation in the market for service verification equipment. As a result, it may be difficult for us to forecast accurately trends in the market and which of our products will be the most competitive over the longer term, and therefore, what is the best use of our cash, personnel and other forms of resources. 23 Table of Contents Dependence on Sole and Single Source Suppliers—Because we depend on a limited number of suppliers and some sole and single source suppliers that are not bound by long-term contracts, our future supply of parts is uncertain. We purchase many key parts, such as microprocessors, field programmable gate arrays, bus interface chips, optical components, and oscillators, from single source or sole suppliers, and we license certain software from third parties. We rely exclusively on third-party subcontractors to manufacture certain sub-assemblies, and we have retained, from time to time, third party design services in the development of our products. We do not have long-term supply agreements with these vendors. In general, we make advance purchases of some products and components to help ensure an adequate supply. We may experience supply problems as a result of financial or operating difficulties of our suppliers, shortages, and discontinuations resulting from component obsolescence or other shortages or allocations by suppliers. Our reliance on these third parties involves a number of risks, including the following: • the unavailability of critical products and components on a timely basis, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all; • the unavailability of products or software licenses, resulting in the need to qualify new or alternative products or develop or license new software for our use and/or to reconfigure our products and manufacturing process, which could be lengthy and expensive; • the likelihood that, if these products are not available, we would suffer an interruption in the manufacture and shipment of our products until the products or alternatives become available; • reduced control over product quality and cost, risks that are exacerbated by the need to respond, at times, to unanticipated changes and increases in customer orders; • the unavailability of, or interruption in, access to some process technologies; and • exposure to the financial problems and stability of our suppliers. In addition, the purchase of these components on a sole source basis subjects us to risks of price increases and potential quality assurance problems. Long lead-times for delivery of certain sole-sourced components may impact our ability to respond to changes in production demand in a timely fashion to satisfy customers’ orders and we may not be able to ensure customer satisfaction. We cannot ensure that one or more of these factors will not cause delays or reductions in product shipments or increases in product costs, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks of International Operations—Our plan to expand sales in international markets could lead to higher operating expenses and may subject us to unpredictable regulatory and political systems. Sales to customers located outside of the United States accounted for approximately 57% of our net sales in 2007, 48% in 2006 and 49% in 2005. We expect international revenues to continue to account for a significant percentage of net sales for the foreseeable future. As a result, we will face various risks relating to our international operations, including the following: • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and the risks of using hedging strategies to minimize our exposure to these fluctuations; • potentially adverse tax consequences related to acquisitions and operations, including the ability to claim goodwill deductions and a foreign tax credit against U.S. federal income taxes; and • possible disruptions to our customers, sales channels, sources of supply, or production facilities due to wars, terrorist acts, acts of protest or civil disobedience, or other conflicts between or within various nations and due to variations in crime rates and the rule of law between nations. 24 Table of Contents We cannot ensure that one or more of these factors will not materially and adversely affect our revenues and profits. In addition, the Asia/Pacific and Latin America regions, both high-growth emerging markets for telecommunications equipment, have experienced instability in many of their economies and significant devaluations in local currencies. Sales from customers located in these regions accounted for approximately 22% of our total sales in 2007, 2006 and 2005. These economic instabilities may continue or worsen, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If international revenues are not adequate to offset the additional expense of expanding international operations, our future growth and profitability could suffer. Operations in Taiwan—We rely on our subsidiary in Taiwan to manufacture a substantial portion of our products, and our reputation and results of operations could be adversely affected if this subsidiary does not perform as we expect. We produce a substantial portion of our products at our subsidiary in Taiwan and plan to concentrate more of our production there in the future. We depend on our Taiwan subsidiary to produce a sufficient volume of our products in a timely fashion and at satisfactory quality levels. If we fail to manage our subsidiary so that it produces quality products on time and in sufficient quantities, our reputation and results of operations could suffer. In addition, we rely on our Taiwan subsidiary to place orders with suppliers for the components they need to manufacture our products. If our subsidiary in Taiwan fails to place timely and sufficient orders with its suppliers, our results of operations could suffer. The cost, quality, and availability of our Taiwan operation are essential to the successful production and sale of our products. Our increasing reliance on this foreign subsidiary for manufacturing exposes us to risks that are not under our immediate control and which could negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, transportation delays and interruptions, political and economic regulations, and natural disasters could also adversely impact our Taiwan operations and negatively impact our results of operations. See “Risk Factors—Dependence on Sole and Single Source Suppliers” and, “—Risks of International Operations” for a discussion of risks associated with concentrating production activities at one facility that is outside the United States. Concentration of Control—Our Chief Executive Officer and certain directors retain significant control over us, which may allow them to decide the outcome of matters submitted to stockholders for approval. This influence may not be beneficial to all stockholders. As of August 31, 2008, Paul A. Marshall, our President and Chief Executive Officer and a member of our Board, and Robert C. Pfeiffer, a member of our Board, beneficially owned approximately 23% and 12%, respectively, of our outstanding shares of common stock. Consequently, these two individuals together control approximately 35% of our outstanding shares of common stock and, to the extent that they act together, may be able to control the election of our directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions that must be submitted to a vote of the stockholders. In addition, Messrs. Marshall and Pfeiffer constitute two of the five members of our Board and have significant influence in directing the actions taken by the Board. Further, to our knowledge, Paul Ker-Chin Chang, our former Chief Executive Officer, President and Chairman of the Board, continues to hold a significant stake in our common stock. To the extent that Mr. Chang acts together with Messrs. Marshall and Pfeiffer, the three individuals together control a significant portion of our outstanding shares of common stock. The interests of these persons may conflict with the interests of other stockholders, and the actions they take or approve may be contrary to those desired by other stockholders. This concentration of ownership and control of the management and affairs of us may also delay or prevent a change in control of us that other stockholders may consider desirable. In addition, conflict among the controlling stockholders may adversely impact their ability to take joint actions in the best interests of us and our other stockholders. 25 Table of Contents Potential Product Liability—Our products are complex, and our failure to detect errors and defects may subject us to costly repairs and product returns under warranty and product liability litigation. Our products are complex and may contain undetected defects or errors when first introduced or as enhancements are released. These errors may occur despite our testing and may not be discovered until after a product has been shipped and used by our customers. Many of the products that we ship contain imperfections that we consider to be insignificant at the time of shipment. We may misjudge the seriousness of a product imperfection and allow the product to be shipped to our customers. These risks are compounded by the fact that we offer many products with multiple hardware and software modifications, which makes it more difficult to ensure high standards of quality control in our manufacturing process. The existence of these errors or defects could result in costly repairs and/or returns of products under warranty and, more generally, in delayed market acceptance of the product or damage to our reputation and business. In addition, the terms of our customer agreements and purchase orders which provide us with protection against unwarranted claims of product defects and errors may not protect us adequately from unwarranted claims against us, unfair verdicts if a claim were to go to trial, settlement of these kinds of claims, or future regulations or laws regarding our products. Our defense against such claims in the future, regardless of their merit, could result in substantial expense to us, diversion of management time and attention, and damage to our business reputation and our ability to retain existing customers or attract new customers. Intellectual Property Risks—Policing any unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties and defending any intellectual property infringement claims against us could be expensive and disrupt our business. Our intellectual property and proprietary technology are an important part of our business, and we depend on the development and use of various forms of intellectual property and proprietary technology. As a result, we are subject to several risks associated with our intellectual property assets, including the risks of unauthorized use of our intellectual property and the costs of protecting our intellectual property. Most of our intellectual property and proprietary technology is not protected by patents, and as a result our intellectual property may not be adequately protected. If unauthorized persons were to copy, obtain, or otherwise misappropriate our intellectual property or proprietary technology, the value of our investment in research and development would decline, our reputation and brand could be diminished, and we would likely suffer a decline in revenues. We believe these risks, which are present in any business in which intellectual property and proprietary technology play an important role, are exacerbated by the difficulty in monitoring and detecting the unauthorized use of intellectual property in our business, the increasing incidence of patent infringement in our industry in general, and the difficulty of enforcing intellectual property rights in some foreign countries. Although our employees are subject to confidentiality obligations, this protection may be inadequate to deter or prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual property or proprietary technology. Our inability to protect our intellectual property or proprietary technology may adversely affect our competitive business position. Litigation has in the past been, and may in the future be, necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and/or defend against the accusations of others. This kind of litigation is time-consuming and expensive to prosecute and resolve and results in a substantial diversion of management resources. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in this type of litigation, that our intellectual property rights will be held valid and enforceable in any litigation, or that we will otherwise be able to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology. In the future, we may receive notices from holders of patents that raise issues as to possible infringement by our products. As the number of telecommunications test, measurement, and network management products increases and the functionality of these products further overlap, we believe that we may become subject to allegations of infringement 26 Table of Contents given the nature of the telecommunications industry and the high incidence of these kinds of claims. Questions of infringement and the validity of patents in the field of telecommunications technologies involve highly technical and subjective analyses. These kinds of proceedings are time consuming and expensive to defend or resolve, result in a substantial diversion of management resources, cause product shipment delays, and could force us to enter into royalty or license agreements rather than dispute the merits of the proceedings initiated against us. Acquisitions—We have in the past acquired multiple companies and lines of business, and we may pursue additional acquisitions in the future. These activities involve numerous risks, including the use of cash, acquired intangible assets, and the diversion of management attention. We have acquired multiple companies and lines of business in the past. As a result of these acquisitions, we face numerous risks, including the following: • integrating the existing management, sales force, technicians and other personnel into one culture and business; • integrating manufacturing, administrative and management information and other control systems into our existing systems; • developing and implementing an integrated business strategy over what had previously been independent companies; • developing compatible or complementary products and technologies from previously independent operations; and • pre-acquisition liabilities associated with the companies or intellectual property acquired, or both. The risks stated above are increased by the fact that most of the companies and assets that we have acquired are located outside of the United States, which makes integration more difficult and costly. In addition, if we make future acquisitions, these risks will be exacerbated by the need to integrate additional operations at a time when we may not have fully integrated all of our previous acquisitions. If we pursue additional acquisitions, we will face similar risks as those outlined above and additional risks, including the following: • the diversion of our management’s attention and the expense of identifying and pursuing suitable acquisition candidates, whether or not an acquisition is consummated; • negotiating and closing these transactions; • the possible need to fund these acquisitions by dilutive issuances of equity securities or by incurring debt; and • the potential negative effect on our financial statements from an increase in other intangibles, write-off of research and development costs, and high costs and expenses from completing acquisitions. We cannot ensure that we will locate suitable acquisition candidates or that, if we do, we will be able to acquire them and then integrate them effectively, efficiently, and successfully into our business. Dependence on Key Employees—If one or more of our senior managers were to leave, we could experience difficulty in replacing them and our operating results could suffer. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service and performance of a relatively small number of key senior management, technical, sales, and marketing personnel. If any of our senior managers were to leave us, we would need to devote substantial resources and management attention to replace them. As a result, 27 Table of Contents management attention may be diverted from managing our business, and we may need to pay higher compensation to replace these employees. We do not have employment contracts with, or key person life insurance for, any of our personnel. During 2006, following the loss of a number of key employees, we announced the adoption of a retention bonus program effective through May 2007 and other inducements to reward long-term employees who remained employed with us. Competition for skilled employees is intense, especially in the San Francisco Bay Area where our main operations are located, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to recruit and retain such personnel. Anti-takeover Provisions—Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents could prevent or delay a change of control and, as a result, negatively impact our stockholders. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of discouraging, delaying, or preventing a change in control of our company or unsolicited acquisition proposals that a stockholder may consider favorable. These provisions provide for the following: • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock; • a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; • prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; • requiring super-majority voting to effect certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and by-laws; • limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholders meetings. Some provisions of Delaware law and our stock incentive plans may also have the effect of discouraging, delaying, or preventing a change in control of our company or unsolicited acquisition proposals. These provisions could also limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our website is http://www.sunrisetelecom.com. We make available free of charge, on or through our website, our annual, quarterly and current reports, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such reports with the SEC. Information contained on our website is not part of this report. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 