ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business prospects are subject to various risks and uncertainties that impact our business. You should carefully consider the following discussion of risks, and the other information provided in this annual report on Form 10-K. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us; however, they do represent all material risks currently known to us. Additional risks that are presently unknown to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impact our business. RECENT INSTABILITY IN THE FINANCIAL MARKETS MAY HAVE AN IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS Recently, the residential real estate market in Reno and the U.S. has experienced a significant downturn due to declining real estate values, substantially reducing mortgage loan originations and securitizations, and precipitating more generalized credit market dislocations and a significant contraction in available liquidity globally. These factors, combined with declining business and 11 consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated an economic recession. Individual consumers are experiencing higher delinquency rates on various consumer loans and defaults on indebtedness of all kinds have increased. Further declines in real estate values in Reno and the U.S. or elsewhere and continuing credit and liquidity concerns could have an adverse affect on our results of operations. OUR BUSINESS MAY BE ADVERSELY IMPACTED BY WEAKENED ECONOMIC CONDITIONS IN CALIFORNIA AND THE PACIFIC NORTHWEST Because California and the Pacific Northwest are significant markets for our leisure traveler and conventioneer guests, our business may be adversely impacted in the event of further weakened economic conditions in those geographical markets. OUR BUSINESS IS PARTICULARLY SENSITIVE TO REDUCTIONS IN DISCRETIONARY CONSUMER SPENDING AS A RESULT OF DOWNTURNS IN THE ECONOMY Consumer demand for entertainment and other amenities at hotel-casino properties, such as ours, are particularly sensitive to downturns in the economy and the corresponding impact on discretionary spending on leisure activities. For example, the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2010, respectively, were two of the most difficult economic periods in Reno Locals history. Changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences brought about by factors such as perceived or actual general economic conditions, effects of the current decline in consumer confidence in the economy, including the current housing crisis and credit crisis, the impact of high energy and food costs, the increased cost of travel, the potential for continued bank failures, perceived or actual disposable consumer income and wealth, or fears of war and future acts of terrorism could further reduce customer demand for the amenities that we offer, thus imposing practical limits on pricing and negatively impacting our results of operations and financial condition. The current housing crisis and economic slowdown in the United States has resulted in a significant decline in the amount of tourism and spending in the Reno area. If this decline continues, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would be adversely affected. INTENSE COMPETITION EXISTS IN THE GAMING INDUSTRY, AND WE EXPECT COMPETITION TO CONTINUE TO INTENSIFY The gaming industry is highly competitive for both customers and employees, including those at the management level. We compete with numerous casinos and hotel-casinos of varying quality and size in our market. We also compete with other non-gaming resorts and vacation destinations, and with various other casino and other entertainment businesses, and could compete with any new forms of gaming that may be legalized in the future. The casino entertainment business is characterized by competitors that vary considerably in their size, quality of facilities, number of operations, brand identities, marketing and growth strategies, financial strength and capabilities, level of amenities, management talent and geographic diversity. We compete directly with other casino facilities operating in the immediate and surrounding market areas. In some markets, we face competition from nearby markets in additi on to direct competition within our market areas. In recent years, with fewer new markets opening for development, competition in existing markets has intensified. We have invested in expanding the Atlantis. In addition, our competitors have also invested in expanding their existing facilities and developing new facilities. This expansion of existing casino entertainment properties, the increase in the number of properties and the aggressive marketing strategies of many of our competitors have increased competition in our market, and this intense competition can be expected to continue. In addition, competition may intensify if our competitors commit additional resources to aggressive pricing and promotional activities in order to attract customers. If our competitors operate more successfully than we do, if they attract customers away from us as a result of aggressive pricing and promotion, if they are more successful than us in attracting and 12 retaining employees, if their properties are enhanced or expanded, if they operate in jurisdictions that gives them operating advantages due to differences or changes in gaming regulations or taxes, or if additional hotels and casinos are established in and around our market, we may lose market share or the ability to attract or retain employees. In particular, the expansion of casino gaming in or near any geographic area from which we attract or expect to attract a significant number of our customers could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE ARE SUBJECT TO EXTENSIVE TAXATION POLICIES, WHICH MAY HARM OUR BUSINESS The federal government has, from time to time, considered a federal tax on casino revenues and may consider such a tax in the future. In addition, gaming companies are currently subject to significant state and local taxes and fees, in addition to normal federal corporate income taxes, and such taxes and fees are subject to increase at any time. In a Special Legislative Session in February 2010, the Nevada Legislature was asked to consider an increase in Nevada gaming taxes. While the measure did not succeed, the Nevada Legislature will meet again in 2011, and Nevada’s budget deficit is expected to cause pressure on the Legislature to consider new and additional taxes. If there is any material increase in state and local taxes and fees, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. THE GLOBAL FINANCIAL CRISIS AND DECLINE IN CONSUMER SPENDING MAY HAVE AN EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION IN WAYS THAT WE CURRENTLY CANNOT ACCURATELY PREDICT The continued credit crisis, economic downturn and related turmoil in the global financial system have had and may continue to have an effect on our business and financial condition. We are not able to predict the duration or severity of the economic downturn. The significant distress recently experienced by financial institutions has had, and may continue to have, far-reaching adverse consequences across many industries, including the gaming industry. The ongoing credit and liquidity crisis has greatly restricted the availability of capital and has caused the cost of capital (if available) to be much higher than it has traditionally been. Accessing the capital markets in this environment could increase the costs of our projects, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions and our ability or willingness to fund any future expansion p rojects. All of these effects could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. CERTAIN OF STOCKHOLDERS OWN LARGE INTERESTS IN OUR CAPITAL STOCK AND MAY SIGNIFICANTLY INFLUENCE OUR AFFAIRS John Farahi and Bob Farahi, officers and directors of the Company, together with their brother Ben Farahi, beneficially own approximately 43% of the Company’s outstanding shares of common stock. As such, members of the Farahi family, if voting together, have the ability to significantly influence our affairs, including the election of members of our Board of Directors and, except as otherwise provided by law, approving or disapproving other matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including a merger, consolidation, or sale of assets. TO SERVICE OUR INDEBTEDNESS, WE WILL REQUIRE A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF CASH. OUR ABILITY TO GENERATE CASH DEPENDS ON MANY FACTORS BEYOND OUR CONTROL Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund future capital expenditures and expansion efforts will depend upon our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. It is possible that our business will generate insufficient cash flows from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our bank credit facility, in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness as it matures and to fund our other liquidity needs. We believe that we will need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness at maturity, and cannot provide assurances that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We may have to adopt one or more alternatives, such as reducing or delaying 13 planned expenses and capital expenditures, selling assets or obtaining additional equity or debt financing or joint venture partners. These financing strategies may not be affected on satisfactory terms, if at all. LIMITATIONS OR RESTRICTIONS ON OUR CREDIT FACILITY COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR LIQUIDITY Any renegotiation or refinancing of our Credit Facility would likely result in the amendment of material provisions of the Credit Facility, such as the interest rate charged and other material covenants. Our Credit Facility is an important component of our liquidity. Any material restriction on our ability to use our Credit Facility or the failure to obtain a new credit facility upon either the maturity of the existing Credit Facility or the depletion of funds remaining under the existing Credit Facility could adversely impact our operations and future growth options. OUR BUSINESS MAY BE ADVERSELY IMPACTED IF THE RENO ECONOMY CONTINUES TO DECLINE We market to and rely upon business from Reno area residents. Adverse changes in the business and employment conditions in Reno brought on by the economic recession have adversely impacted our business. There can be no guarantee that such conditions will improve or will not continue to worsen. Additional erosion in business and employment conditions in Reno could adversely impact our business. THE GAMING INDUSTRY IS HIGHLY COMPETITIVE AND INCREASED COMPETITION COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR FUTURE OPERATIONS The gaming industry is highly competitive. As competitive pressures from California Native American casinos increase, other Reno area casinos may intensify their targeting of the Reno area resident market, which is one of our key markets. Increased competitive pressures in the local market could adversely impact our ability to continue to attract local residents to the Atlantis or require us to use more expensive, and therefore, less profitable promotions to compete more efficiently. Competitive pressures from internet gaming could also affect our future operations. Several Native American casinos have opened in Northern California since passage of the 2000 constitutional amendment. Certain experienced Nevada gaming operators manage Native American casino facilities near Sacramento, one of Reno’s key feeder markets. One major facility near Sacramento has been operating since June 2003 and a second facility near Sacramento opened in 2008. Both have been very successful, adversely impacting many hotel casinos in Reno. Central and Northern California gaming facilities could provide an alternative to Reno area casinos, especially during certain winter periods when auto travel through the Sierra Nevada mountain passes is hampered. This loss of California drive-in guests could adversely affect our operations. We also believe that the legalization of unlimited land-based casino gaming in or near any major metropolitan area in the Atlantis’ key non-Reno marketing areas, such as San Francisco or Sacramento, could have a material adverse impact on our business. In June 2004, five California Native American tribes signed compacts with the state that allow the tribes to increase the number of slot machines beyond the previous 2,000-per-tribe limit in exchange for higher fees from each of the five tribes. In February 2008, the voters of the State of California approved compacts with four tribes located in Southern California that increase the limit of Native American operated slot machines in the State of California. Other states are also considering legislation that would enable the development and operation of casinos or casino-like operations. In addition, Native American gaming facilities in California and other jurisdictions in some instances operate under regulatory requirements less stringent than those imposed on Nevada licensed casinos, which could provide them a competitive advantage in our markets. Moreover, there is a possibility of competition from internet and other account wagering gaming services, which would allow 14 their guests to wager on a wide variety of sporting events and play Las Vegas-style casino games from home, and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. OUR BUSINESS MAY BE ADVERSELY IMPACTED BY THE ENTRY OF STATION CASINOS IN THE RENO MARKET Station Casinos, Inc., a casino operator operating primarily in the Las Vegas market and catering mainly to Las Vegas area residents, has acquired several parcels in the Reno area and has announced plans to build two casinos, one of which would be located within one mile of our Atlantis Casino Resort Spa. Station Casinos is the dominant casino operator catering to local residents in the Las Vegas market. Should Station Casinos proceed with its plans, it will create additional competition for us in the Reno area resident, conventioneer and tour and travel markets and could have a material adverse impact on our business. OUR BUSINESS MAY BE ADVERSELY IMPACTED IF WE ARE UNABLE TO ADEQUATELY STAFF OUR OPERATIONS During periods of robust business growth in Reno, the competition for employees increases. During such times, new and growing business in the area may create job opportunities that at times have exceeded the area’s supply of qualified employees. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, or if competition for employees results in materially increased wages, our ability to maintain and grow our business could be adversely impacted. OUR BUSINESS MAY BE ADVERSELY IMPACTED BY DOMESTIC AND INTERNATIONAL EVENTS The terrorist attacks that took place in the United States on September 11, 2001, were unprecedented events that created economic and business uncertainties, especially for the travel and tourism industry. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses, and other acts of war or hostility, including the ongoing conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan, have created economic and political uncertainties that could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition in ways we cannot predict. AN OUTBREAK OF HIGHLY INFECTIOUS DISEASE COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE NUMBER OF VISITORS TO OUR FACILITIES AND DISRUPT OUR OPERATIONS, RESULTING IN A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND CASH FLOWS There have been recent fears concerning the spread of an “avian flu”, H1N1 or “swine flu” and cruise ships have reported other highly infectious virus outbreaks. Potential future outbreaks of highly infectious diseases may adversely affect the number of visitors to our property and our business and prospects. Furthermore, an outbreak might disrupt our ability to adequately staff our business and could generally disrupt our operations. If any of our guests or employees is suspected of having contracted certain highly contagious diseases, we may be required to quarantine these customers or employees or the affected areas of our facilities and temporarily suspend part or all of our operations at affected facilities. Any new outbreak of such a highly infectious disease could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. FAILURE OF THE RENO-SPARKS CONVENTION CENTER TO BOOK AND ATTRACT CONVENTION BUSINESS COULD ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS The Atlantis is the closest hotel-casino to the Reno-Sparks Convention Center. If the Reno-Sparks Convention Center does not succeed in booking the anticipated level of conventions, our future results of operations could be adversely impacted. BECAUSE WE ARE CURRENTLY DEPENDENT UPON A SINGLE PROPERTY IN A SINGLE MARKET FOR ALL OF OUR CASH FLOW, WE ARE SUBJECT TO GREATER RISKS THAN 15 A GAMING COMPANY WITH MORE OPERATING PROPERTIES OR THAT OPERATES IN MORE MARKETS We currently do not have material assets or operations other than the Atlantis. As a result, we are entirely dependent upon the Atlantis property for all of our cash flow until we develop other properties. OUR BUSINESS IS SUBJECT TO RESTRICTIONS AND LIMITATIONS IMPOSED BY GAMING REGULATORY AUTHORITIES THAT COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT US The ownership and operation of casino gaming facilities are subject to extensive state and local regulation. The State of Nevada and the applicable local authorities require various licenses, registrations, permits and approvals to be held by us and our subsidiary. The Nevada Gaming Commission may, among other things, limit, condition, suspend, revoke or decline to renew a license or approval to own the stock of our Nevada subsidiary for any cause deemed reasonable by such licensing authority. If we violate gaming laws or regulations, substantial fines could be levied against us, our subsidiary and the persons involved, and we could be forced to forfeit a portion of our assets. The suspension, revocation or non-renewal of any of our licenses or the levy on us of substantial fines or forfeiture of assets would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial cond ition and results of operations. To date, we have obtained all governmental licenses, findings of suitability, registrations, permits and approvals necessary for the operation of our current gaming activities. However, gaming licenses and related approvals are deemed to be privileges under Nevada law. We cannot assure you that our existing licenses, permits and approvals will be maintained or extended. OUR INSURANCE COVERAGE MAY NOT BE ADEQUATE TO COVER ALL POSSIBLE LOSSES THAT OUR PROPERTY COULD SUFFER. IN ADDITION, OUR INSURANCE COSTS MAY INCREASE AND WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO OBTAIN THE SAME INSURANCE COVERAGE IN THE FUTURE Although we have general property insurance covering damage caused by a casualty loss (such as fire and natural disasters), each such policy has certain exclusions. In addition, our property insurance is in an amount that may be less than the expected replacement cost of rebuilding the complex if there was a total loss. Our level of insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all losses in the event of a major casualty. In addition, certain casualty events, such as labor strikes, nuclear events, acts of war, loss of income due to cancellation of room reservations or conventions due to fear of terrorism, deterioration or corrosion, insect or animal damage and pollution, might not be covered at all under our policies. Therefore, certain acts could expose us to heavy, uninsured losses. In addition, although we currently have insurance coverage for occurrences of terrorist acts and for certain losses that could result from these acts, our terrorism coverage is subject to the same risks and deficiencies as those described above for our general property coverage. The lack of sufficient insurance for these types of acts could expose us to heavy losses in the event that any damages occur, directly or indirectly, as a result of terrorist attacks or otherwise, which could have a significant negative impact on our operations. In addition to the damage caused to our property by a casualty loss (such as fire, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism), we may suffer business disruption as a result of these events or be subject to claims by third parties injured or harmed. While we carry business interruption insurance and general liability insurance, this insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses in such event. We renew our insurance policies on an annual basis. The cost of coverage may become so high that we may need to reduce our policy limits or agree to certain exclusions from our coverage. Among other factors, it is possible that the situation in Iraq, Afghanistan, homeland security concerns, other catastrophic events or any change in government legislation governing insurance coverage for acts of terrorism could materially adversely affect available insurance coverage and result in increased premiums on available coverage (which may cause us to elect to reduce our policy limits) and additional exclusions 16 from coverage. Among other potential future adverse changes, in the future we may elect not to, or may not be able to, obtain any coverage for losses due to acts of terrorism. Our debt instruments and other material agreements require us to maintain a certain minimum level of insurance. Failure to satisfy these requirements could result in an event of default under these debt instruments or material agreements, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. IF THE STATE OF NEVADA OR THE CITY OF RENO INCREASES GAMING TAXES AND FEES, OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED State and local authorities raise a significant amount of revenue through taxes and fees on gaming activities. From time to time, legislators and officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of such laws, affecting the gaming industry. In addition, worsening economic conditions could intensify the efforts of state and local governments to raise revenues through increases in gaming taxes or other fees. If the State of Nevada or the City of Reno were to increase gaming taxes and fees, our results of operations could be adversely affected. IF WE LOSE OUR KEY PERSONNEL, OUR BUSINESS COULD BE MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECTED We depend on the continued performances of John Farahi and Bob Farahi, our Chief Executive Officer and our President, respectively, and their management team. If we lose the services of the Farahi brothers, or other senior Atlantis management personnel, and cannot replace such persons in a timely manner, our business could be materially adversely affected. ADVERSE WINTER WEATHER CONDITIONS IN THE SIERRA NEVADA MOUNTAINS AND RENO-LAKE TAHOE AREA COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION Adverse winter weather conditions, particularly snowfall, can prevent customers from traveling or make it difficult for them to drive to the Atlantis. Adverse winter weather would most significantly affect our drive-in customers from northern California and the Pacific Northwest. If the Reno area itself were to experience prolonged adverse winter weather conditions, our results of operations and financial condition could also be materially adversely affected. CLAIMS HAVE BEEN BROUGHT AGAINST US AND OUR SUBSIDIARY IN VARIOUS LEGAL PROCEEDINGS, AND ADDITIONAL LEGAL AND TAX CLAIMS ARISE FROM TIME TO TIME It is possible that our cash flows and results of operations could be affected by the resolution of legal and other claims. We believe that the ultimate disposition of current matters will not have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Please see the further discussion under “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3 of this Form 10-K. ENERGY PRICE INCREASES MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR COST OF OPERATIONS AND OUR REVENUES Our facility uses significant amounts of electricity, natural gas and other forms of energy. While no shortages of energy or fuel have been experienced to date, increases in energy and fuel prices in the United States may negatively affect our operating results. The extent of the impact is subject to the magnitude and duration of the energy and fuel price increases, but this impact could be material. In addition, energy and gasoline price increases in cities that constitute a significant source of customers for our properties could result in a decline in disposable income of potential customers and a corresponding decrease in visitation and spending at our properties, which would negatively impact revenues. CHANGES IN REGULATIONS ON LAND USE REQUIREMENTS COULD ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS 17 A change in regulations on land use requirements with regard to development of new hotel casinos in the proximity of the Atlantis could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. A relaxation in such regulations could make it easier for competitors to enter our immediate market. A tightening of such regulations could adversely impact our future expansion opportunities. OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY HIGH-END PLAYERS’ WINNINGS Although not the major focus of our marketing efforts, we have selectively targeted high-end players. Should one or more of these high-end players win large sums in our casino, or should a material amount of credit extended to such players not be repaid, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. OUR COMMON STOCK PRICE MAY FLUCTUATE SUBSTANTIALLY, AND A STOCKHOLDER’S INVESTMENT COULD DECLINE IN VALUE The market price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to many factors, including: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations; · announcements of significant acquisitions or other agreements by us or by our competitors; · our sale of common stock or other securities in the future; · trading volume of our common stock; · conditions and trends in the gaming and destination entertainment industries; · changes in the estimation of the future size and growth of our markets; and · general economic conditions, including, without limitation, changes in the cost of fuel and air travel. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to companies’ operating performance. Broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholder derivative lawsuits and/or securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. WE HAVE THE ABILITY TO ISSUE ADDITIONAL EQUITY SECURITIES, WHICH WOULD LEAD TO DILUTION OF OUR ISSUED AND OUTSTANDING COMMON STOCK The issuance of additional equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities would result in dilution of our existing stockholders’ equity interests in us. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue, without vote or action of stockholders, preferred stock in one or more series, and has the ability to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of any such series. Any such series of preferred stock could contain dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption, redemption prices, liquidation preferences or other rights superior to the rights of holders of our common stock. If we issue convertible preferred stock, a subsequent conversion may dilute the current common stockholders’ interest. WE DO NOT INTEND TO PAY CASH DIVIDENDS. AS A RESULT, STOCKHOLDERS WILL BENEFIT FROM AN INVESTMENT IN OUR COMMON STOCK ONLY IF IT APPRECIATES IN VALUE We have never paid a cash dividend on our common stock, and we do not plan to pay any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to finance our operations and further expansion and growth of our business, including acquisitions. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend upon any future 18 appreciation in its value. We cannot guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders have purchased their shares. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There were no unresolved comments from the SEC staff at the time of filing this Form 10-K. 