Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks below, as well as all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in evaluating our company and our business. Any of these risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and the trading price of our common stock. We have a history of losses and we are uncertain as to our future profitability. We have a history of significant, recurring losses from operations, and we may continue to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future. We reported net operating losses of $1,256,566 is fiscal 2013 and $1,547,388 in fiscal 2012. As of November 30, 2013, our accumulated deficit was $51,737,831. Our revenues may not grow or even continue at their current level. Going forward, we will need to increase our revenues and/or lower our current cost structure to reach profitability. If our revenues do not increase and/or if we are unable to reduce our expenses, we will not be able to reach profitability. We cannot assure you that we will be able to reach profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. These factors raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We need additional capital to continue our operations. We sustained significant operating losses in the past 9 years as we have built our VoIP and mobile VoIP technology and business. It has used all our cash and forced us to raise capital to pay our bills. As of November 30, 2013, we had negative working capital of approximately $9.3 million and negative stockholders’ equity of approximately $10.5 million. We believe it is probable that we will continue to experience losses and increased negative working capital and negative stockholders’ equity in the near future, and that we will not be able to achieve positive cash flow before we require additional capital. If we are unable to pay our trade creditors, we may be unable to carry on or business. During fiscal year 2013 our accounts payable and accrued liabilities increased by $417,411 to a balance of $2,712,648 at November 30, 2013. Among the creditors to whom we owe money are enterprises that provide important support for our business operations. If we continue to be unable to pay those creditors on a current basis, they may become unwilling to provide services to us. Given our poor record of paying our creditors, replacement vendors could demand deposits, which we might be unable to pay. Some combination of these events, if they occurred, could cause a termination of our business operations. 10 A continuing decline in telecommunications prices may cause us to lower our prices to remain competitive, which could prevent our future profitability. International and domestic telecommunications prices have decreased significantly over the last few years in most of the markets in which we operate, and as a result our margins have decreased materially. We anticipate that prices will continue to be reduced in all of the markets in which we do business or expect to do business. Users who select our services (or our resellers’ or service provider customers’ services) to take advantage of the current pricing differential between traditional telecommunications prices and our (or our customers’) prices may switch to traditional telecommunications carriers as such pricing differentials diminish or disappear, and we will be unable to use such pricing differentials to attract new customers in the future. Such competition or continued price decreases may require us to lower our prices to remain competitive, may result in reduced revenue, a loss or decrease of customers and may prevent our future profitability. We are substantially dependent upon a few material customers, and any significant decline in our sales to those customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. In 2013, two customers accounted for approximately 48% of our annual gross revenues, including one customer who provided 36% of our revenue. We anticipate we will have significantly lower revenues from our largest customer in fiscal 2014. Any significant decline in our sales to any of our material customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, customers that represent a material portion of our revenue have significant leverage in negotiations regarding price and service terms, which they may use to reduce the margins we realize on our sales to those customers. Intense competition could reduce our market share and decrease our revenue. The telecommunications industry is highly competitive. We face intense competition from traditional telephone companies, wireless companies, cable companies, competitive local exchange carriers, alternative voice communication providers and independent VoIP providers. In addition, our customers are not subject to long-term contractual commitments to purchase our services and can terminate our service and switch to competitors' offerings on short notice. Most of our current and potential competitors, particularly incumbent telephone and cable companies, have longer operating histories, significantly greater resources and name recognition, and a larger base of customers than we have. As a result, these competitors may have greater credibility with our existing and potential customers. They also may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can to ours. Our competitors may also offer bundled service arrangements offering a more complete product despite the technical merits or advantages of our products. Competition could decrease our prices, reduce our sales, lower our gross profits or decrease our market share. We also compete against established alternative voice communication providers and face competition from other large, well-capitalized Internet companies that have recently launched or plan to launch VoIP-enabled services. In addition, we compete with independent VoIP service providers. Some of these service providers may choose to sacrifice revenue in order to gain market share by offering their services at lower prices or for free. In order to compete with such service providers, we may have to significantly reduce our prices, which would affect our profitability. We also are subject to the risk that new technologies may be developed that are able to deliver competing voice services at lower prices, better or more conveniently. Future competition from new technologies could have a material adverse effect on our growth and operating results. Given the significant price competition in the markets for our products, we are at a significant disadvantage compared to many of our competitors, especially those with substantially greater resources who may be better able to withstand an extended period of downward pricing pressure. The adverse impact of a shortfall in our revenues may be magnified by our inability to adjust spending to compensate for such shortfall. Announcements of new products and technologies by our competitors or us could cause customers to defer purchases of our existing products, which also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. 11 If we fail to adapt to rapid changes in the market for voice, messaging and video services, then our products and services could become obsolete. The market for our products and services is constantly and rapidly evolving as we and our competitors introduce new and enhanced products and services and react to changes in VoIP, messaging, video technology and customer demands. We may not be able to develop or acquire new products and plans or product and plan enhancements that compete effectively with present or emerging VoIP, messaging and video technologies or differentiate our products and plans based on functionality and performance. In addition, we may not be able to establish or maintain strategic alliances that will permit enhancement opportunities or innovative distribution methods for our products and plans. VoIP, messaging and video technology is complex, and new products and plans and enhancements to existing products and plans can require long development and testing periods. Any delays in developing and releasing new or enhanced products and plans could cause us to lose revenue opportunities and customers. Any technical flaws in products we release could diminish the innovative impact of the products and have a negative effect on customer adoption and our reputation. We also are subject to the risk of future disruptive technologies. New products based on new technologies or new industry standards could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable. If new technologies develop that are able to deliver competing voice and messaging services at lower prices, better or more conveniently, it could have a material adverse effect on us. We face a risk of failure of computer and communications systems used in our business. Our business depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications systems as well as those that connect to our network. Although we have designed our network to reduce the possibility of disruptions or other outages, our systems and those that connect to our network are subject to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, communications failure, hardware or software malfunction, network failures, physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, computer viruses, intentional acts of terrorism or vandalism and other events that may be or may not be beyond our control. Any system interruptions that cause our services to be unavailable, including significant or lengthy telephone network failures or difficulties for users in communicating through our network or portal, could damage our reputation and result in a loss of users. Our computer systems and operations may be vulnerable to security breaches. We believe that the safety of our network and the secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet are essential to our operations and maintaining user confidence in our services. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect our network, the consumer information stored on our network, unauthorized use of our network and other security breaches, our computer infrastructure is potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic computer viruses, abuse of use, break-ins and similar disruptive problems and security breaches that could cause loss (both economic and otherwise), interruptions, delays or loss of services to our users. We rely on licensed encryption and authentication technology to effect secure transmission of confidential information, including credit card numbers. It is possible that advances in computer capabilities or new technologies could result in a compromise or breach of the technology we use to protect user transaction data. A party that is able to circumvent our security systems could misappropriate proprietary information, cause interruptions in our operations or utilize our network without authorization. Security breaches also could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss, litigation and possible liability. While we have experienced isolated instances of unauthorized use of our network, and have responded to such events by taking steps to increase our network security, we cannot guarantee you that our security measures will prevent security breaches. Operating internationally exposes us to additional and unpredictable risks. We operate in many international markets, including the Middle East. There are certain risks inherent in doing business on an international basis, including: • political and economic instability, including the risk of social unrest, war, civil war and armed conflict in the countries in which we operate; • uncertainty regarding the ability of our resellers to resell our service in compliance with all laws, rules and regulations in such markets and actions by foreign governments or foreign telecommunications companies to limit access to our services; • fluctuations in exchange rates; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • potentially weaker protection of intellectual property rights; and • uncertain market acceptance and difficulties in marketing efforts due to language and cultural differences. 12 The success of our Company is dependent on the growth and public acceptance of our services. Our future success depends on our ability to significantly increase revenues generated from our services. In turn, the success of our voice and video communications services depends, among other things, upon future demand for VoIP telephony systems and services. Because the use of our service requires that the user be a subscriber of an existing broadband Internet service, usually provided through a cable or digital subscriber line, or DSL, connection, slow or limited adoption of broadband Internet service could adversely affect the growth of our subscriber base and revenues. For certain users, aspects of our service are not the same as traditional telephone service. Our continued growth is dependent on the adoption of our services by mainstream customers, so these differences are important. For example: > Both our E-911 and emergency calling services are different, in significant respects, from the 911 service associated with traditional wireline and wireless telephone providers and, in certain cases, with other VoIP providers. > In the event of a power loss or Internet access interruption experienced by a customer, our service is interrupted. Unlike some of our competitors, we have not installed batteries at customer premises to provide emergency power for our customers’ equipment if they lose power, although we do have backup power systems for our network equipment and service platform. > Our customers may experience lower call quality than they are used to from traditional wireline telephone companies, including static, echoes, and delays in transmissions. > Our customers may experience higher dropped-call rates than they are used to from traditional wireline telephone companies. > Customers who obtain new phone numbers from us do not appear in the phone book and their phone numbers are not available through directory assistance services offered by traditional telephone companies. > Our customers cannot accept collect calls. > Our customers cannot call premium-rate telephone numbers such as 1-900 numbers and 976 numbers. If customers do not accept the differences between our service and traditional telephone service, they may choose to remain with their current telephone service provider or may choose to return to service provided by traditional telephone companies. Third parties might infringe upon our technology. We cannot assure you that the steps we have taken to protect our property rights will prevent misappropriation of our technology. To protect our rights to our intellectual property, we rely on a combination of trade secrets , confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements with our employees, affiliates, strategic partners and others. We may be unable to detect inappropriate use of our technology.. Further, much of the code we wrote is open-source code and others may seek to use our code for their own purposes and alter our code to their advantage. Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could materially harm our brand, devalue our proprietary content and affect our ability to compete effectively. Further, defending any technology rights could result in significant financial expenses and managerial resources. Third parties may claim that our services infringe upon their intellectual property rights. In the past, third parties have asserted, and may again assert in the future, claims that we have violated a patent or infringed a copyright, trademark or other proprietary right belonging to them and subject us to expensive and disruptive litigation. In addition, we incorporate licensed third-party technology in some of our products and services. In these license agreements, the licensors have agreed to indemnify us with respect to any claim by a third party that the licensed software infringes any patent or other proprietary right so long as we have not made changes to the licensed software. We cannot assure you that these provisions will be adequate to protect us from infringement claims. Any infringement claims and lawsuits, even if not meritorious, could be expensive and time consuming to defend; divert management’s attention and resources; require us to redesign our products, if feasible; require us to pay royalties or enter into licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies; and/or may materially disrupt the conduct of our business. 13 Flaws in our technology and systems or our failure to adapt our systems to any new Internet Protocol could cause delays or interruptions of service, which could damage our reputation, cause us to lose customers, and limit our growth. Although we have designed our service network to reduce the possibility of disruptions or other outages, our service may be disrupted by problems with our technology and systems, such as malfunctions in our VoIP-enabled device or our mobile application that we provide to customers, software or facilities and overloading of our network. As we attract new subscribers, we expect increased call volume that we need to manage to avoid network interruptions. In particular, as we have marketed to different international long distance markets, we have seen international call volumes to targeted countries increase. During the next few years we expect wide-spread industry adoption of a new Internet Protocol, which is a set of standard communications and routing mechanisms. Customers may experience periodic delays of service caused by the industry transition to this new Internet Protocol. Interruptions have caused and may in the future cause us to lose customers and offer substantial customer credits, which could adversely affect our revenue and profitability. Network interruptions have also impaired our ability at times to sign-up new customers and the ability of customers to manage their accounts. If service interruptions or other outages adversely affect the perceived reliability of our telephony service or customer service, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining customers and our brand reputation and growth may suffer. In addition, we utilize Internet-based or “cloud” computing services in connection with some of our business operations. Any disruption to the internet or to our third-party Web hosting or cloud computing providers, including technological or business-related disruptions, could adversely impact the experience of our customers and have adverse effects on our operations. In addition, fires, floods, earthquakes, power losses, telecommunications failures, and similar "Acts of God" could damage these systems and hardware or cause them to fail completely. We do not maintain entirely redundant systems, thus such an event could result in downtime for our operations and could adversely affect our business. Our services are subject to regulation, and future legislative, regulatory or judicial actions could adversely affect our business and expose us to liability. Our business has developed in a relatively lightly regulated environment. However, the United States, United Kingdom, and Canada have applied some traditional telephone company regulations to VoIP and continue to evaluate how VoIP should be regulated. The effects of future regulatory developments are uncertain. At the federal level in the U.S., the FCC has imposed certain telecommunications regulations on VoIP services including: > Requirements to provide E911 service; > Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (“CALEA”) obligations; > Obligation to support Universal Service; > Customer Proprietary Network Information (“CPNI”) requirements; > Disability access obligations; > Local Number Portability requirements; > Service discontinuance notification obligations; > Rural call completion reporting and rules related to ring signal integrity. We seek to comply with all applicable regulatory requirements. We could, however, be subject to regulatory enforcement action if a regulator does not believe that we are complying with applicable regulations. In addition, the regulatory framework for VoIP service is still evolving and it is possible that we could be subject to additional regulatory obligations and/or existing regulatory obligations could be modified or expanded. The effects of future regulatory developments are uncertain. Future legislative, judicial or other regulatory actions could have a negative effect on our business. If we become subject to the rules and regulations applicable to telecommunications providers in individual states, we may incur significant litigation and compliance costs, and we may have to restructure our service offerings, exit certain markets, or raise the price of our services, any of which could cause our services to be less attractive to customers. In addition, future regulatory developments could increase our cost of doing business and limit our growth. 14 We could be liable for breaches of security on our web site, fraudulent activities of our users, or the failure of third party vendors to deliver credit card transaction processing services. A fundamental requirement for operating an Internet-based, worldwide voice and video communications service, and electronically billing our customers, is the secure transmission of confidential information and media over public networks. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect consumer information and prevent fraudulent credit card transactions and other security breaches, failure to mitigate such fraud or breaches may adversely affect our operating results. The law relating to the liability of providers of online payment services is currently unsettled and states may enact their own rules with which we may not comply. We rely on third party providers to process and guarantee payments made by our subscribers, and we may be unable to prevent our customers from fraudulently receiving goods and services. Our liability risk will increase if a larger fraction of our transactions involve fraudulent or disputed credit card transactions. Any costs we incur as a result of fraudulent or disputed transactions could harm our business. In addition, the functionality of our current billing system relies on certain third party vendors delivering services. If these vendors are unable or unwilling to provide services, we will not be able to charge for our services in a timely or scalable fashion, which could significantly decrease our revenue and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We have experienced losses due to subscriber fraud and theft of service. Subscribers have, in the past, obtained access to our service without paying for monthly service and international toll calls by unlawfully using our authorization codes or by submitting fraudulent credit card information. To date, such losses from unauthorized credit card transactions and theft of service have not been significant. We have implemented anti-fraud procedures in order to control losses relating to these practices, but these procedures may not be adequate to effectively limit all of our exposure in the future from fraud. If our procedures are not effective, consumer fraud and theft of service could significantly decrease our revenue and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Vulnerabilities to security breaches, cyber intrusions and other malicious acts could adversely impact our business. Critical to our provision of service is the storage, processing, and transmission of confidential and sensitive data. We store, process and transmit a wide variety of confidential and sensitive information including credit card, bank account and other financial information, proprietary, trade secret or other data that may be protected by intellectual property laws, customers' and employees' personally identifiable information, as well as other sensitive information. We, along with others in the industry, will be subject to cyber threats and security breaches, either by third parties or employees, given the nature of the information we store, process and transmit. Our continued ability to securely store, process and transmit data is essential to our business. We are aware of the risks associated with cyber threats and we have implemented a number of measures to protect ourselves from cyber attacks. Specifically, we have redundant servers such that if we suffer equipment or software failures in one set of servers, we have the ability to provide continuity of service. We actively monitor our network for cyber threats and implement protective measures periodically. We conduct vulnerability assessments and penetration testing and engage in remedial action based on such assessments. Depending on the evolving nature of cyber threats and the measures we may have to implement to continue to maintain the security of our networks and data, our profitability may be adversely be impacted or we may have to increase the retail price of our services that may make our offerings less competitive with other communications providers. But, like all other companies in the marketplace, there is no guarantee that we will not be adversely impacted by cyber attacks. If third parties obtain unauthorized access to our secure network, or if our network is penetrated, our service could be disrupted, sensitive information could be lost, stolen or disclosed that could have variety of negative impacts including legal liability in form of class action lawsuits, investigations by federal and state law enforcement agencies, could expose us to fines or penalties, and could harm our business reputation where any of these eventualities could have a material negative impact on our business. The storage, processing, and use of personal information and related data subjects us to evolving governmental laws and regulation, commercial standards, contractual obligations, and other legal obligations related to consumer and data privacy, which may have a material impact on our costs, use of our products and services, or expose us to increased liability. 15 Federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations, commercial obligations and industry standards, each provide for obligations and restrictions with respect to data privacy and security, as well as the collection, storage, retention, protection, use, processing, transmission, sharing, disclosure and protection of personal information and other customer data. The evolving nature of these obligations and restrictions dictates that differing interpretations, inconsistency or conflicts among countries or rules, and general uncertainty impact the application to our business. These obligations and restrictions may limit our ability to collect, store, process, use, transmit and share data with our customers, and to allow our customers to collect, store, retain, protect, use, process, transmit, share and disclose data with others through our products and services. Compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, such obligations and restrictions could increase the cost of our operations and impact our ability to market our products and services through effective segmentation. Failure to comply with obligations and restrictions related to applicable data protection laws, regulations, standards, and codes of conduct, as well as our own posted privacy policies and contractual commitments could subject us to lawsuits, fines, criminal penalties, statutory damages, consent decrees, injunctions, adverse publicity, loss of user confidence in our services, and loss of users, which could materially harm our business. Additionally, third-party contractors may have access to customer data. If these or other third-party vendors violate obligations and restrictions related to applicable data protection laws or our policies, such violations may also put our customers’ information at risk and could in turn have a material and adverse effect on our business Natural disasters, war, terrorist attacks or malicious conduct could adversely impact our operations that could degrade or impede our ability to offer services. As a provider of "cloud-based" services, our services rely on uninterrupted connection to the Internet through data centers and networks. Any interruption or disruption to our network, or the third parties on which we rely, could adversely impact our ability to provide service. Our network could be disrupted by circumstances outside of our control including natural disasters, acts of war, terrorist attacks or other malicious acts including, but not limited to, cyberattacks. Should any of these events occur and interfere with our ability to operate our network even for a limited period of time, we could incur significant expenses, lose substantial amounts of revenue, suffer damage to our reputation, and lose customers. Any of these events could have a material adverse impact on our business. We rely on third party network service providers to originate and terminate substantially all of our public switched telephone network calls. We leverage the infrastructure of third party network service providers to provide telephone numbers, PSTN call termination and origination services, and local number portability for our customers rather than deploying our own network. This decision has resulted in lower capital and operating costs for our business in the short term but has reduced our operating flexibility and ability to make timely service changes. If any of these network service providers cease operations or otherwise terminate the services that we depend on, the delay in switching our technology to another network service provider, if available, and qualifying this new service could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. While we believe that relations with our current service providers are good, and we have contracts in place, there can be no assurance that these service providers will be able or willing to supply cost-effective services to us in the future or that we will be successful in signing up alternative or additional providers. Although we could replace our current providers, if necessary, our ability to provide service to our subscribers could be impacted during this timeframe, and this could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The loss of access to, or requirement to change, the telephone numbers we provide to our customers also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. Due to our reliance on these service providers, when problems occur in a network, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. The occurrence of hardware and software errors, whether caused by our service or another vendor's products, may result in the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products and any necessary revisions may force us to incur significant expenses. The occurrence of some of these types of problems may seriously harm our business, financial condition or operating results. We rely on third parties to provide aspects of our E-911 service, and initiate local number portability for our customers. If these third parties do not provide our customers with reliable, high-quality service, our reputation will be harmed and we may lose customers. We contract for services required to provide E-911 services including assistance in routing emergency calls, terminating E-911 calls, operating a national call center that is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week to receive certain emergency calls, and maintaining databases for the purpose of deploying and operating E-911 services. Interruptions in service from our vendor could cause failures in our customers’ access to E-911 services and expose us to liability and damage our reputation. 16 We also have agreements with companies that initiate our local number portability, which allow new customers to retain their existing telephone numbers when subscribing to our services. If any of these third parties do not provide reliable, high-quality service, our reputation and our business will be harmed. In addition, industry consolidation among providers of services to us may impact our ability to obtain these services or increase our expense for these services. We may face difficulties related to entry into joint ventures or the future acquisition or integration of additional businesses, which could harm our growth or operating results. As we execute on our growth initiatives, we may elect to enter into joint venture arrangements or acquire additional businesses or assets. These activities require substantial management time and resources. We cannot predict or guarantee that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or consummate any acquisition or joint venture arrangement. In addition, acquisitions of existing businesses involve substantial risks, including the risk that we may not be able to integrate the operations, personnel, services, or technologies, the potential disruption of our ongoing businesses, the diversion of management attention, the maximization of financial and strategic opportunities, the difficulty in developing or maintaining controls and procedures, and the dilution to our existing stockholders from the issuance of additional shares of common stock. As a result of these and other risks, we may not produce anticipated revenue, profitability, or synergies. Acquisitions may require us to issue equity securities, use our cash resources, incur debt or contingent liabilities, amortize intangibles, or write-off acquisition-related expenses. If we are unable to successfully integrate any acquired businesses or assets we may not receive the intended benefits of such acquisition. In addition, we cannot predict market reactions to any acquisitions we may make or to any failure to announce any future acquisitions. Further, while we conduct due diligence in connection with acquisition and joint venture opportunities, there may be risks or liabilities that such due diligence efforts fail to discover, are not disclosed to us, or that we inadequately assess. The discovery of material liabilities associated with acquisitions or joint venture opportunities, economic risks faced by joint venture partners, or any failure of joint venture partners to perform their obligations could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our ability to provide our telephony service and manage related customer accounts is dependent upon third-party facilities, equipment and systems, the failure of which could cause delays of or interruptions to our service, damage our reputation, cause us to lose customers, limit our growth, and affect our financial condition. Our success depends on our ability to provide quality and reliable telephony service, which is in part dependent upon the proper functioning of facilities and equipment owned and operated by third parties and is, therefore, beyond our control. Unlike traditional wireline telephone service or wireless service, our telephony service requires our customers to have an operative broadband Internet connection and an electrical power supply, which are provided by the customer's Internet service provider and electric utility company, respectively, and not by us. Alternatively, our wireless customers require a mobile device and a wireless Internet connection. The quality of some broadband Internet connections may be too poor for customers to use our telephony services properly. In addition, if there is any interruption to a customer's broadband Internet service, battery charge or electrical power supply, that customer will be unable to make or receive calls, including emergency calls, using our telephony service. Decreasing telecommunications rates and increasing regulatory charges may diminish or eliminate our competitive pricing advantage. Decreasing telecommunications rates may diminish or eliminate the competitive pricing advantage of our services, while increased regulation and the imposition of additional regulatory funding obligations at the federal, state and local level could require us to either increase the retail price for our services, thus making us less competitive, or absorb such costs, thus decreasing our profit margins. International and domestic telecommunications rates have decreased significantly over the last few years in most of the markets in which we operate, and we anticipate these rates will continue to decline in all of the markets in which we do business or expect to do business. Users who select our services to take advantage of the current pricing differential between traditional telecommunications rates and our rates may switch to traditional telecommunications carriers if such pricing differentials diminish or disappear, however, and we will be unable to use such pricing differentials to attract new customers in the future. Continued rate decreases would require us to lower our rates to remain competitive and would reduce or possibly eliminate any gross profit from our services. In addition, we may lose subscribers for our services. 17 We are dependent on a small number of individuals, and if we lose key personnel upon whom we are dependent, our business will be adversely affected. Many of the key responsibilities of our business have been assigned to a small number of individuals. Our future success depends to a considerable degree on the vision, skills, experience, and effort of these individuals. The development and marketing of our VoIP services will continue to place a significant strain on our limited personnel, management, and other resources. Our future success depends upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key employees who have critical industry experience and relationships that we rely on to implement our business plan. None of our officers or key employees are bound by employment agreements for any specific term. The loss of the services of any of our officers or key employees could delay the development and introduction of, and negatively impact our ability to sell our services and seriously harm our business, financial condition or operating results. The debt agreements governing our financing contain restrictions that may limit our flexibility in operating our business. Effective on February 15, 2013, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with our principal creditor, which limits our ability to issue common stock, preferred stock and debt. The agreement contains customary representations and warranties and affirmative covenants that limit our ability and/or the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants and other restrictions may under certain circumstances limit, but not necessarily preclude, our and certain of our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: > consolidate or merge; > create liens; > incur additional indebtedness; > dispose of assets; > consummate acquisitions; > make investments; or > pay dividends and other distributions. These covenants may prevent us from taking actions that we consider to be in the Company's best interests, but that our principal creditor does not perceive to be in its interest. If we require additional capital, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms or at all. We need to pursue additional financing to pay expenses, fund growth and pay our debt. We may seek additional funding through public or private equity or debt financing. Any such financings may be upon terms that are potentially dilutive to existing stockholders. We may not be able to obtain such additional financing as needed on acceptable terms, or at all, which may require us to reduce our operating costs and other expenditures, including reductions of personnel and services to our subscribers. The market price of our common stock has been and will continue to be volatile, due to the outstanding convertible debentures. Factor Fund currently holds convertible debentures that allow it to convert into shares of our common stock as a form of debt payment at conversion prices that are formula base that approximate (1) the volume weighted average price (“VWAP”) of our stock over the past 30 trading days for one note, and (2) 60% of the VWAP of our stock for a second note. At November 30, 2013, the balance of the convertible debentures outstanding payable to Factor Fund was $2,182,690. Due to the fact that our debts substantially exceed our assets, the existence of the convertible debentures exerts a downward pressure on our stock price. In particular, when our primary lender converts the debt into shares of our common stock and resells those shares into the market, the result is often a reduction in the market price of our common stock. Until we are able to replace the convertible debentures with debt or equity financing that does not exert a continuing pressure on the market price of our common stock, the market price will continue to be volatile, and investors in our stock will bear a significant risk of reductions in the market value of our common stock. 18 Our Series D preferred shareholders have voting control of our common stock and have the ability to exercise control over all matters submitted to a stockholder vote. Two individuals, our Chief Executive Office and our Chief Information Officer, who are the only members of our board of directors, currently own in the aggregate, all of our Series D Preferred Stock. The holders of the Series D Preferred Stock hold 51% of the voting power at any meeting of our shareholders or if shareholder consents are collected. The members of our board of directors, therefore, are able to control the outcome of any matter submitted to the shareholders for approval, which would include the election of directors, recapitalizations, mergers or other significant corporate transactions. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Pink Market, which may increase the volatility of our stock and make it harder to sell shares of our stock. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Pink, which is maintained by OTC Markets. There is a greater chance of market volatility for securities that trade on the OTC Pink (as opposed to a national exchange or quotation system), as a result of which stockholders may experience wide fluctuations and a depressed price in the market price of our securities. Thus, stockholders may be required to either sell our securities at a market price which is lower than their purchase price or to hold our securities for a longer period of time than they planned. Because our common stock falls under the definition of “penny stock,” trading in our common stock may be limited because broker-dealers are required to provide their customers with disclosure documents prior to allowing them to participate in transactions involving our common stock. These rules impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell low-priced securities to persons other than established customers and institutional accredited investors; and require the delivery of a disclosure schedule explaining the nature and risks of the penny stock market. As a result, the ability or willingness of broker-dealers to sell or make a market in our common stock might decline, and stockholders could find it more difficult to sell their stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 