Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results include those described below as well as other risks and factors identified from time to time in our SEC filings. The Company’s business could be harmed by any of the risks noted below. The trading price of the Company’s common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, including the Company’s financial statements and related notes. Risks Related to Our Industry and Business Difficult economic and market conditions have adversely affected our industry. Dramatic declines in the housing market, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions across the United States. General downward economic trends, reduced availability of commercial credit and increasing unemployment have negatively impacted the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write-downs. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to their customers and to each other. This market turmoil and tightening of credit has led to increased commercial and consumer deficiencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction in general business act ivity. Financial institutions have experienced decreased access to deposits and borrowings. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: · We face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities; · Customer demand for loans secured by real estate could be reduced due to weaker economic conditions, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or an increase in interest rates; · The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. The level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect the accuracy of our estimates which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process; · The value of the portfolio of investment securities that we hold, including our trust preferred securities, may be adversely affected; and · If, due to financial setbacks or as a result of any OTS-ordered reimbursement, fine, or order our FDIC risk assessment category changes, we may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC insurance premiums in the future. See “— Regulation.” The full impact of the recently enacted Dodd-Frank Act is currently unknown given that much of the details and substance of the new laws will be determined through agency rulemaking. The compliance burden and impact on our operations and profitability with respect to the Dodd-Frank Act are currently unknown, as the Dodd-Frank Act delegates to various federal agencies the task of implementing its many provisions through regulation. Hundreds of new federal regulations, studies and reports addressing all of the major areas of the new law, including the regulation of federal savings associations and their holding companies, will be required, ensuring that federal rules and policies in this area will be further developing for months and years to come. Based on the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and anticipated implementing regulations, it is highly likely 45 Table of Contents that banks and thrifts as well as their holding companies will be subject to significantly increased regulation and compliance obligations that expose us to noncompliance risk and consequences. The elimination of the OTS and transfer of the OTS’s supervisory and rulemaking functions to various federal banking agencies will change the way that we are regulated. As the OTS is due to be abolished 90 days after transferring its supervisory and rulemaking functions to various federal agencies, both the Bank and Company will be transitioning to the jurisdiction of new primary federal regulators, which will change the way that we are regulated. Specifically, the OTS’s supervisory and rulemaking functions (except for consumer protection) relating to all federal savings associations will be transferred to the OCC, while the OTS’s supervisory and rulemaking functions relating to savings and loan holding companies and their non-depository institution subsidiaries will be transferred to the FRB. While the OCC and FRB are directed to implement existing OTS regulations, orders, resolutions, determinations and agreements for thrifts and their holding companies under the HOLA, the transition of supervisory functions from the OTS to these agencies coul d alter the operations of the Bank and Company so as to be more closely aligned with the OCC’s and FRB’s respective supervision of national banks and bank holding companies. While the functions of the OTS will formally be transferred to the OCC and FRB in July 2011 (or else by January 2012 if a six-month extension is required), we may see changes in the way we are supervised and examined sooner, and may experience operational challenges in the course of transition to our new regulators. The BCFP may reshape the consumer financial laws through rulemaking and enforcement of unfair, deceptive or abusive practices, which may directly impact the business operations of depository institutions offering consumer financial products or services including the Bank. The BCFP has broad rulemaking authority to administer and carry out the purposes and objectives of the “Federal consumer financial laws, and to prevent evasions thereof,” with respect to all financial institutions that offer financial products and services to consumers. The BCFP is also authorized to prescribe rules, applicable to any covered person or service provider, identifying and prohibiting acts or practices that are “unfair, deceptive, or abusive” in connection with any transaction with a consumer for a consumer financial product or service, or the offering of a consumer financial product or service (“UDAP authority”). The full reach and impact of the BCFP’s broad new rulemaking powers and UDAP authority on the operations of financial institutions offering consumer financial products or services is currently unknown. Notwithstanding, insured depository institutions with assets of $10 billion or less will continue to be supervised and examined by their primary federal regulators, rather than the BCFP, with respect to compliance with the federal consumer protection laws. Legislative and regulatory initiatives taken to date may not achieve their intended objectives; proposed and future initiatives may substantially increase compliance burdens and further impact our financial condition or results of operations. Legislative and regulatory initiatives taken to date by Congress and the federal banking regulators to address financial regulatory reform may not achieve their intended objectives, thereby requiring additional legislation or regulation of the financial services industry. Furthermore, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and other international bodies comprised of banking regulators have committed to raise capital standards and liquidity buffers within the banking system by imposing new requirements, for example a requirement that all regulatory capital instruments issued by depository institutions must include contractual terms that allow regulators to write them off or convert them to common shares in the event of the institution’s failure. Such proposals may impose more stringent standards than currently applicable or anticipated with respect to capital and liquidity requirements for depository institutions. We cannot predict whether such proposals will ultimately be adopted, or the impact that such proposals, if adopted, would have upon our financial condition or results of operations. 46 Table of Contents We have a concentration of our assets in mortgage-backed securities. As of September 30, 2010 approximately 47.1% of the Bank’s assets were invested in mortgage-backed securities. The Company’s mortgage-backed and related securities portfolio consists primarily of securities issued under government-sponsored agency programs, including those of Ginnie Mae, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The Ginnie Mae, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac certificates are modified pass-through mortgage-backed securities that represent undivided interests in underlying pools of fixed-rate, or certain types of adjustable-rate, predominantly single-family and, to a lesser extent, multi-family residential mortgages issued by these government-sponsored entities. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac generally provide the certificate holder a guarantee of timely payments of interest, whether or not collected. Ginnie Mae’s guarantee to the holder is timely payments of principal and interest, backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. Government. Privately issued mortgage pass-through ce rtificates generally provide no guarantee as to timely payment of interest or principal, and reliance is placed on the creditworthiness of the issuer. Mortgage-backed securities generally increase the quality of the Company’s assets by virtue of the insurance or guarantees that back them, are more liquid than individual mortgage loans and may be used to collateralize borrowings or other obligations of the Company. While mortgage-backed securities carry a reduced credit risk as compared to whole loans, such securities remain subject to the risk that a fluctuating interest rate environment, along with other factors such as the geographic distribution of the underlying mortgage loans, may alter the prepayment rate of such mortgage loans and so affect both the prepayment speed, and value, of such securities. The prepayment risk associated with mortgage-backed securities is monitored periodically, and prepayment rate assumptions adjusted as appropriate to update the Company’s mortgage-backed securities accounting and asset/liability reports. We recorded other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”) charges in our trust preferred securities (“TRUPS”) portfolio in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, and we could record additional losses in the future. We determine the fair value of our investment securities based on GAAP and three levels of informational inputs that may be used to measure fair value. The price at which a security may be sold in a market transaction could be significantly lower than the quoted market price for the security, particularly if the quoted market price is based on infrequent trading history, the market for the security is illiquid, or a significant amount of securities are being sold. During fiscal 2010, we determined that one debt security “TRUPS” exhibited OTTI. The aggregate OTTI loss recorded for the security was $350,000 which was recognized through earnings. The valuation of our TRUPS will continue to be influenced by external market and other factors, including implementation of Securities and Exchange Commission and Financial Accounting Standards Board guidance on fair value accounting, the financial condition of specific issuers deferral and default rates of specific issuer financial institutions, rating agency actions, and the prices at which observable market transactions occur. If we are required to record additional OTTI charges on our TRUPS portfolio, we could experience potentially significant earnings losses as well as an adverse impact to our capital position. Under the recently enacted Dodd-Frank Act, TRUPS issued on or after May 19, 2010 are no longer eligible for inclusion in Tier 1 capital. For trust preferred securities issued before May 19, 2010, regulatory capital deductions will generally be required during a phase in period from January 1, 2013 to January 1, 2016; however, depository institution holding companies with assets of less than $15 billion as of year-end 2009 enjoy a permanent grandfather right with respect to such securities for purposes of calculating regulatory capital. 47 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Banking Industry Our reputation and business could be damaged by negative publicity. Reputational risk, or the risk to our business, earnings and capital from negative publicity, is inherent in our business. Negative publicity can result from actual or alleged conduct in a number of areas, including legal and regulatory compliance, lending practices, corporate governance, litigation, inadequate protection of customer data, ethical behavior of our employees, and from actions taken by regulators and others as a result of that conduct. Damage to our reputation, including as a result of negative publicity associated with the supervisory directives, could impact our ability to attract new and maintain existing loan and deposit customers, employees and business relationships. We are subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud, identity theft, and unauthorized intrusion. There have been a number of publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees of financial services firms in recent years. Misconduct by our employees could include hiding unauthorized activities from us, improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of our customers or improper use of confidential information. Employee fraud, errors and employee and customer misconduct could subject us to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation. It is not always possible to prevent employee errors and misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Employee errors could also subject us to civil claims for negligence. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” Although we maintain a system of internal controls and procedures designed to reduce the risk of loss from employee or customer fraud or misconduct and employee errors as well as insurance coverage to mitigate against operational risks, including data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud, these internal controls may fail to prevent or detect such an occurrence, or such an occurrence may not be insured or exceeds applicable insurance limits. In addition, there have also been a number of cases where financial institutions have been the victim of fraud related to unauthorized wire and Automated Clearinghouse transactions. The facts and circumstances of each case vary but generally involve criminals posing as customers (i.e., stealing bank customers’ identities) to transfer funds out of the institution quickly in an effort to place the funds beyond recovery prior to detection. Although we have policies and procedures in place to verify the authenticity of our customers and prevent identity theft, we can provide no assurances that these policies and procedures will prevent all fraudulent transfers. In addition, although we have safeguards in place, it is possible that our computer systems could be infiltrated by hackers or other intruders. We can provide no assurances that these safeguards will prev ent all unauthorized infiltrations. Identity theft and successful unauthorized intrusions could result in reputational damage and financial losses to the Company. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation — Recent Developments.” Changes in economic and political conditions could adversely affect the Company’s earnings, as the Company’s borrowers’ ability to repay loans and the value of the collateral securing the Company’s loans decline. The Company’s success depends, to a certain extent, upon economic and political conditions, local and national, as well as governmental monetary policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates, money supply and other factors beyond the Company’s control may adversely affect the Company’s asset quality, deposit levels and loan demand and, therefore, the Company’s earnings. Because the Company has a significant amount of real estate loans, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral. Among other things, adverse changes in the economy, including but not limited to the current economic downturn, may also have a negative effect on the ability of the Company’s borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on the Company’s earnings. In addition, the vast majority of the Company’s loans are to individuals and businesses in the Company’s market area. Consequently, any economic decline in the Company’s market area could have an adverse impact on the Company’s earnings. Recessionary environment may adversely impact the Company’s earnings and new governmental initiatives may not prove effective. The national and global economic downturn has recently resulted in extreme levels of market volatility locally, nationally and internationally. This downturn has depressed the overall market value of financial institutions, and may limit or impede industry access to capital, or have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of banking companies in general, including the Company, with respect to, for example, the establishment of reserves should conditions deteriorate further. In this respect, while the duration and severity of the adverse economic cycle appears to be lessening at the moment, and although the U.S. Department of the Treasury and the FDIC, among others, have implemented 48 Table of Contents programs in an effort to stabilize the national economy, the ultimate effectiveness of these programs remains uncertain at this time. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s earnings depend substantially on the Company’s interest rate spread, which is the difference between (i) the rates we earn on loans, securities and other earning assets, and (ii) the interest rates we pay on deposits and other borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. As market interest rates rise, we will have competitive pressures to increase the rates we pay on deposits, which may result in a decrease of the Company’s net interest income. Conversely, if interest rates fall, yields on loans and investments may fall. Because a significant portion of the Company’s deposit portfolio is in non-interest bearing accounts, such a change in rates would likely result in a decr ease in the Company’s net interest income. For additional information, see Item 7A, herein. The Company operates in a highly regulated environment, and changes in laws and regulations to which we are subject may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company operates in a highly regulated environment and are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OTS and the FDIC. As described above, beginning with the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, we will be supervised by the Federal Reserve and the Bank will be supervised by the OCC and the FDIC. See “Business — Regulation” herein. Applicable laws and regulations may change, and there is no assurance that such changes will not adversely affect the Company’s business. In this respect, potentially landscape-changing legislative proposals have been introduced in Congress, and by regulatory agencies with respect to their respective regulatory powers. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution may engage, including the activities of MPS, and are intended primarily for the protection of the Ban k, its depositors and the FDIC. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including but not limited to the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution’s allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of restrictions on activities, regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, including but not limited to changes in the regulations governing savings banks, could have a material impact on the Company’s operations. It is unknown at this time to what extent legislation will be passed into law or regulatory proposals will be adopted, or the effect that such passage or adoption will have on the banking industry or the Company. Changes in technology could be costly. The banking industry is undergoing technological innovation at a fast pace. To keep up with its competition, the Company needs to stay abreast of innovations and evaluate those technologies that will enable it to compete on a cost-effective basis. This is especially true with respect to MPS. The cost of such technology, including personnel, can be high in both absolute and relative terms. There can be no assurance, given the fast pace of change and innovation, that the Company’s technology, either purchased or developed internally, will meet or continue to meet the needs of the Company. The recently enacted Dodd-Frank Act may have unpredictable effects on the Company and adversely impact the Company’s results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry within the United States and, among many other things, eliminates the Company’s bank regulator (the OTS, the duties of which will be taken over by the OCC and the Federal Reserve as the new regulators of the Bank and the Company, respectively), establishes the new federal BCFP, requires the BCFP and other federal agencies to implement over the next six to eighteen months many new and significant rules and regulations. At this time, it is difficult to predict the extent to which the Dodd-Frank Act or the resulting rules and regulations will impact the Company’s and the Bank’s business. Compliance with the new law 49 Table of Contents and regulations will, however, likely result in additional costs, which could be significant, and could adversely impact the Company’s results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. Risks Related to the Company’s Business We cannot predict the possibility of future regulatory action. As has been described in this Annual Report, the OTS issued supervisory directives requiring the Bank to take certain actions and to refrain from taking certain actions. In addition, during 2010 the Bank was examined by OTS, but we have not yet received a report of examination. While we believe it is likely that OTS will seek to have the Bank take corrective actions in connection with deficiencies identified in the report of examination, we cannot predict with certainty the subjects that will be addressed and the means used to achieve such corrections. Bank regulatory agencies such as the OTS, which have broad discretionary powers to enforce banking laws and regulations, may seek to take formal supervisory action if such actions are necessary or required. Corrective steps could result in increased compliance costs for internal and external resources. See Item 1. 147;Regulation — Bank Supervision and Regulation — OTS Supervisory Directives and Related Matters.” The Company operates in an extremely competitive market, and the Company’s business will suffer if it is unable to compete effectively. The Company encounters significant competition in the Company’s market area from other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market mutual funds and other financial intermediaries. Many of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits and may offer services that the Company does not or cannot provide. The Company’s profitability depends upon the Company’s continued ability to compete successfully in the Company’s market area. MPS operates on a national scale against competitors with substantially greater resources and limited barriers to entry. The success of MPS depends upon its ability to compete in such an environment. Existing insurance policies may not adequately protect the Company and its subsidiaries. Business interruption and property insurance policies are in place with respect to the operations of the Company. Should any event triggering such policies occur, however, it is possible that our policies would not fully reimburse us for the losses we could sustain. The loss of key members of the Company’s senior management team could adversely affect the Company’s business. We believe that the Company’s success depends largely on the efforts and abilities of the Company’s senior management. Their experience and industry contacts significantly benefit us. The competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry is intense, and the loss of any of the Company’s key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company’s loan portfolio includes loans with a higher risk of loss. The Company originates commercial mortgage loans, commercial loans, consumer loans, agricultural mortgage loans, agricultural loans and residential mortgage loans primarily within the Company’s market areas. Commercial mortgage, commercial, and consumer loans may expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans may not be sold as easily as residential real estate. These loans also have greater credit risk than residential real estate for the following reasons: · Commercial Mortgage Loans. Repayment is dependent upon income being generated in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. · Commercial Loans. Repayment is dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower’s business. · Consumer Loans. Consumer loans (such as personal lines of credit) are collateralized, if at all, with assets that may not provide an adequate source of payment of the loan due to depreciation, damage, or loss. 50 Table of Contents · Agricultural Loans. Repayment is dependent upon the successful operation of the business, which is greatly dependent on many things outside the control of either the Bank or the borrowers. These factors include weather, commodity prices, and interest rates, among others. · MPS Program Loans. MPS previously originated consumer loans, in some cases related to anticipated tax refunds that are funded to prepaid cards. For certain of these loans, repayment is based on the customer filing a tax return and the Internal Revenue Service funding the tax refund. If either or both do not occur, losses could result. MPS has loss protection agreements in place with certain business partners in which they will absorb some or all of such losses in the event they were to exceed certain levels. We do not anticipate offering tax loan or refund transfer programs in fiscal 2011. If the Company’s actual loan losses exceed the Company’s allowance for loan losses, the Company’s net income will decrease. The Company makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of the Company’s loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of the Company’s borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of the Company’s loans. Despite the Company’s underwriting and monitoring practices, the Company’s loan customers may not repay their loans according to their terms, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. The Company may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on its operating results. Because the Company must use assumptions regarding individual loans and the economy, the current allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and increases in the allowance may be necessary. The Company may need to significantly increase the Company’s provision for losses on loans if one or more of the Company’s larger loans or credit relationships becomes delinquent or if we continue to expand the Company’s commercial real estate and commercial lending. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review the Company’s allowance for loan losses and may require the Company to increase the Company’s provision for loan losses or recognize loan charge-offs. Material additions to the Company’s allowance would materially decrease the Company’s net income. The Company cannot assure you that its monitoring procedures and policies will reduce certain lending risks or that the Company’s allowance for loan losses will be adequate to cover actual losses. If the Company forecloses on and takes ownership of real estate collateral property, it may be subject to the increased costs associated with the ownership of real property, resulting in reduced revenues. The Company may have to foreclose on collateral property to protect its investment and may thereafter own and operate such property. In such case, the Company will be exposed to the risks inherent in the ownership of real estate. The amount that the Company, as a mortgagee, may realize after a default is dependent upon factors outside of the Company’s control, including, but not limited to: (i) general or local economic conditions; (ii) neighborhood values; (iii) interest rates; (iv) real estate tax rates; (v) operating expenses of the mortgaged properties; (vi) supply of and demand for rental units or properties; (vii) ability to obtain and maintain adequate occupancy of the properties; (viii) zoning laws; (ix) governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies; and (x) acts of God. Certain expenditures associated with t he ownership of real estate, principally real estate taxes and maintenance costs, may adversely affect the income from the real estate. Therefore, the cost of operating a real property may exceed the rental income earned from such property, and the Company may have to advance funds in order to protect the Company’s investment, or may be required to dispose of the real property at a loss. The foregoing expenditures and costs could adversely affect the Company’s ability to generate revenues, resulting in reduced levels of profitability. Environmental liability associated with commercial lending could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In the course of the Company’s business, it may acquire, through foreclosure, commercial properties securing loans that are in default. There is a risk that hazardous substances could be discovered on those properties. In this event, the Company could be required to remove the substances from and remediate the properties at its own cost and expense. The cost of removal and environmental remediation could be substantial. The Company may not have adequate remedies against the owners of the properties or other responsible parties and could find it difficult or 51 Table of Contents impossible to sell the affected properties. These events could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and operating results. If the Company fails to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, it may not be able to accurately report the Company’s financial results or prevent fraud, and, as a result, investors and depositors could lose confidence in the Company’s financial reporting, which could adversely affect the Company’s business, the trading price of the Company’s stock and the Company’s ability to attract additional deposits. In recent years, the Company has been required to include in its annual reports filed with the SEC a report of the Company’s management regarding internal control over financial reporting. We have documented and evaluated the Company’s internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and SEC rules and regulations, which require an annual management report on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, including, among other matters, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. In order to comply with this requirement, management retained outside consultants to assist the Company in (i) assessing and documenting the adequacy of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, (ii) improving contr ol processes, where appropriate, and (iii) verifying through testing or other means that controls are functioning as documented. Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting is contained in Item 9A below. If the Company fails to identify and correct any significant deficiencies in the design or operating effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting or fails to prevent fraud, current and potential stockholders and depositors could lose confidence in the Company’s financial reporting, which could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, the trading price of the Company’s stock, and the Company’s ability to attract additional deposits. No material weaknesses have been identified in connection with the Company’s fiscal year 2010 audit. If material weaknesses are identified in the future, such weaknesses could have a material impact on the profitability and performance of the Company. A breach of information security or compliance breach by one of the Company’s agents or vendors could negatively affect the Company’s reputation and business. The Company depends on data processing, communication and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks and over the internet. The Company cannot be certain all of its systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack, despite safeguards it has installed. Additionally, the Company relies on and does business with a variety of third-party service providers, agents and vendors with respect to the Company’s business, data and communications needs. If information security is breached, or one of the Company’s agents or vendors breaches compliance procedures, information could be lost or misappropriated, resulting in financial loss or costs to the Company or damages to others. These costs or losses could materially exceed the Company’s amount of insurance coverage, if any, which would adversely affect the Company’s business. Risks Related to the Company’s Stock The price of the Company’s common stock may be volatile, which may result in losses for investors. The market price for shares of the Company’s common stock has been volatile in the past, and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future. These factors include: · announcements of developments related to the Company’s business, · fluctuations in the Company’s results of operations, · sales of substantial amounts of the Company’s securities into the marketplace, · general conditions in the Company’s banking niche or the worldwide economy, · a shortfall in revenues or earnings compared to securities analysts’ expectations, 52 Table of Contents · lack of an active trading market for the common stock, · changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections, and · the Company’s announcement of new acquisitions or other projects. The market price of the Company’s common stock may fluctuate significantly in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to the Company’s performance. General market price declines or market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of the Company’s common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. The Company’s common stock is thinly traded, and thus your ability to sell shares or purchase additional shares of the Company’s common stock will be limited, and the market price at any time may not reflect true value. Your ability to sell shares of the Company’s common stock or purchase additional shares largely depends upon the existence of an active market for the common stock. The Company’s common stock is quoted on NASDAQ Stock Market, but the volume of trades on any given day is light, and you may be unable to find a buyer for shares you wish to sell or a seller of additional shares you wish to purchase. In addition, a fair valuation of the purchase or sales price of a share of common stock also depends upon active trading, and thus the price you receive for a thinly traded stock, such as the Company’s common stock, may not reflect its true value. Future sales or additional issuances of the Company’s capital stock may depress prices of shares of the Company’s common stock or otherwise dilute the book value of shares then outstanding. Sales of a substantial amount of the Company’s capital stock in the public market or the issuance of a significant number of shares could adversely affect the market price for shares of the Company’s common stock. As of September 30, 2010, the Company was authorized to issue up to 5,200,000 shares of common stock, of which 3,111,413 shares were outstanding, and 261,586 shares were held as treasury stock. The Company was also authorized to issue up to 800,000 shares of preferred stock, none of which is outstanding or reserved for issuance. Accordingly, without further stockholder approval, the Company may issue up to 2,088,587 additional shares of common stock. This factor may affect the market price for shares of the Company’s common stock. Federal regulations may inhibit a takeover, prevent a transaction you may favor or limit the Company’s growth opportunities, which could cause the market price of the Company’s common stock to decline. Certain provisions of the Company’s charter documents and federal regulations could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of the company. In addition, the Company must obtain approval from regulatory authorities before it can acquire control of any other company. The Company may not be able to pay dividends in the future in accordance with past practice. The Company pays a quarterly dividend to stockholders. The payment of dividends is subject to legal and regulatory restrictions. Any payment of dividends in the future will depend, in large part, on the Company’s earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, regulatory review, and other factors considered relevant by the Company’s Board of Directors. Our agricultural loans are subject to factors beyond the Bank’s control. The agricultural community is subject to commodity price fluctuations. Although our agricultural loans are a relatively limited part of our overall portfolio, extended periods of low commodity prices, higher input costs, or poor weather conditions could result in reduced profit margins, reducing demand for goods and services provided by agriculture-related businesses, which in turn, could affect other businesses in the Company’s market area. 53 Table of Contents Risks Related to Meta Payment Systems®, a division of the Bank MPS’ products and services are highly regulated financial products subject to extensive supervision and regulation. The products and services offered by MPS are highly regulated by federal banking agencies, state banking agencies, and other federal and state regulators. Some of the laws and related regulations affecting its operations include consumer protection laws, escheat laws, privacy laws, and data protection laws. Compliance with the relevant legal paradigm in which the division operates is costly and requires significant personnel resources, as well as extensive contacts with outside lawyers and consultants hired by MPS to stay abreast of the applicable regulatory schemes. While some proposed legislation would benefit MPS, it is possible that new legislation or more stringent focus by banking agencies could further restrict MPS’ current operations or change the regulatory environment in which the division’s customers operate. Although it is possible that some legislation under consideration could have either a positive or de minimis impact on its operations and profitability it is just as likely that any new legislation affecting the operations of MPS or its customers, some of which are also regulated entities, would have a negative impact on the conduct of the relevant business. There is no way to quantify the impact that such changes could have on the profitability or operations of MPS at this time given the unpredictable nature of the risk. In addition to the relevant legal paradigm set forth above, it should also be noted that there has been concern within the bank regulatory environment over the use of credit and, in particular, prepaid cards as a means by which to illegally launder and move money. We believe such concerns in general will continue for the foreseeable future for the entire banking industry, with a continued emphasis on heightened compliance expectations. See Item 1. “Regulation — Bank Supervision and Regulation — OTS Supervisory Directives and Related Matters.” MPS, through the Bank, owns or is seeking a number of patents, trademarks and other forms of intellectual property with respect to the operation of its business and the protection of such intellectual property may in the future require material expenditures. In its operations, MPS, through the Bank, is seeking protection for various forms of intellectual property. No assurance can be given that such protection will be granted. In addition, the competitive market environment of its business, MPS must be vigilant in ensuring that its patents and other intellectual property are protected and not exploited by unlicensed third parties. MPS must also protect itself and defend against intellectual property challenges initiated by third parties making various claims against MPS. With respect to these claims, regardless of whether we are pursuing our claims against perceived infringers or defending our intellectual property from third parties asserting various claims of infringement, it is possible that significant personnel time and monetary resources could be used to pursue or defend such claims. It should also be noted that intellectual property risks extend to foreign countries whose protections of such property are not as extensive as those in the United States. As such, MPS may need to spend additional sums to ensure that its intellectual property protections are maximized globally. Moreover, should there be a material, improper use of MPS’ intellectual property, this could have an impact on the division’s operations. Contracts with third-parties, some of which are material to the Company, may not be renewed, may be renegotiated on terms that are not as favorable to MPS, may not be fulfilled or could be subject to cancellation by regulatory authorities. MPS has entered into numerous contracts with third parties with respect to the operations of its business. In some instances, the third parties provide services to MPS; in other instances, MPS provides products and services to such third parties. Were such agreements not to be renewed by the third party or were such agreements to be 54 Table of Contents renewed on terms less favorable to MPS, such actions could have a material impact on the division’s profitability and deposit levels. Similarly, were one of these parties unable to meet their obligations to us for any reason (including but not limited to bankruptcy, computer or other technological interruptions or failures, personnel loss or Acts of God), we may need to seek alternative service providers and the terms with such alternate providers may not be as favorable as those currently in place. In addition, were such failures to cause a material disruption in our ability to service our customers, it is possible that our customer base would shrink. Moreover, were the disruptions in our ability to provide services significant, this could negatively affect the perception of our business in the card industry. In addition, as described earlier, in the supervisory directive our regulator noted deficiencies with respect to our third party relationships. As a result, we may seek modifications to certain of our contracts with third-parties, and we cannot offer any assurance that we will be able to achieve such modifications. If we are unsuccessful, it is possible that OTS could order us to abrogate certain contracts, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. See “Regulation — Bank Supervision and Regulation- OTS Supervisory Directives and Related Matters.” Costs of conforming products and services to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards (the “PCI DSS”) are costly and could continue to affect the operations of MPS. The PCI DSS is a multifaceted standard that includes data security management, policies and procedures, as well as other protective measures, that was created by the largest credit card associations in the world in an effort to protect the nonpublic personal information of all types of cardholders, including prepaid cardholders and holders of network branded credit cards (such as Discover, MasterCard, and Visa). The PCI DSS mandates a prescribed technical foundation for the collection, storage and transmission of cardholder data and also contains significant provisions regarding the testing of security protections by various entities in the payment card industry, including MPS. Compliance with the PCI DSS is costly and changes to the standards could have an equal, or greater, effect on profitability of the relevant business division. The potential for fraud in the card payment industry is significant. Issuers of prepaid and credit cards have suffered significant losses in recent years with respect to the theft of cardholder data that has been illegally exploited for personal gain. The theft of such information is regularly reported and affects not only individuals but businesses as well (albeit to a lesser degree). Many types of credit card fraud exist, including the counterfeiting of cards and “skimming.” “Skimming” is the term for a specialized type of credit card information theft whereby, typically, an employee of a merchant will copy the cardholder’s number and security code (either by handwriting the information onto a piece of paper, entering such information into a keypad or other device, or using a handheld device which “reads” and then stores the card information embedded in the magnetic strip). Once a credit card number and secu rity code has been skimmed, the skimmer can use such information for purchases until the unauthorized use is detected either by the cardholder or the card issuer. Losses from skimming have been substantial for certain card industry participants. Although skimming has not had a material impact on the profitability of MPS, it is possible that such activity could impact this division at some time in the future. Part of our business depends on sales agents who do not sell our products exclusively. Our business model, to some degree, depends upon the use of sales agents who are not our employees. These agents sell the products and services of many different processors to merchants and other parties in need of a card services. Failure to maintain good relations with such sales agents could have a negative impact on our business. In addition, new third party relationships have been restricted absent prior approval of OTS. See Item 1. “Regulation — Bank Supervision and Regulation — OTS Supervisory Directives and Related Matters.” 55 Table of Contents Products and services offered by MPS involve many business parties and the possibility of collusion exists. As described above, the theft of cardholder data is a significant threat in the industry in which MPS operates. This threat also includes the possibility that there is collusion between certain participants in the card system to act illegally. Although MPS is not aware of any instances to date, it is possible that such activities could occur in the future, thereby impacting its operation and profitability. Competition in the card industry is significant. In order to maintain an edge to its products and offerings, MPS must invest significantly in technology and research and development. The heavy emphasis upon technology in the products and services offered by MPS requires significant expenditures with respect to research and development both to exploit technological gains and to develop new products and services to meet customers’ needs. As is common with most research and development, while some efforts may yield substantial benefits for the division, others will not, thereby resulting in expenditures for which profits will not be realized. MPS is not able to predict with any degree of certainty as to the level of research and development that will be required in the future, how much those efforts will cost, or how profitable such developments will be for the division once undertaken. Discover, MasterCard, and Visa, as well as other electronic funds networks in which MPS operates, could change their rules. Pursuant to the agreements between MPS and Discover, MasterCard, Visa and other card networks, these third parties typically have retained the right to prescribe certain business practices and procedures with respect to parties such as MPS. Such prescribed terms include, but are not limited to, a contracting party’s level of capital as well as other business requirements. Discover, MasterCard, and Visa also retain the right in their agreements with industry participants such as MPS to unilaterally change the rules under which such transactions are processed with little or no advance warning. This power includes the power to prevent MPS from accessing their networks in order to process transactions. Should any third party choose to invoke this right unilaterally, such changes could materially impact the operations of MPS. Our business is heavily dependent upon the Internet and any negative disruptions to its operation could negatively impact our business. Much of our business depends upon transactions being processed through the Internet. Like nearly all other commercial enterprises, we rely upon others to provide the Internet so that commerce can be conducted. Were there to be a failure in the operation of the Internet or a significant impairment in our ability to move information on the Internet or our ability to do so in accordance with customer safeguard protocols, MPS would develop alternative processes during which time profitability may be somewhat lower. Our ability to process transactions requires functioning communication and electricity lines. The nature of the credit card and debit card industry is that it must be operational every day of the week every hour of the week. Any disruption in the utilities utilized by MPS could have a negative effect on our operations and extensive disruptions could materially affect our operations. Data encryption technology has not been perfected and vigilance in MPS’ information technology systems is costly. MPS holds sensitive business and personal information with respect to the products and services it offers. This information, which is generally digitally encrypted, is passed along various technology channels, including the Internet. Although MPS encrypts its customer and other sensitive information and expends significant financial and personnel resources to maintain the integrity of its technology networks and the confidentiality of nonpublic customer information, because such information may travel on public technology and other non-secure channels, the 56 Table of Contents confidential information is susceptible to hacking and other illegal intrusions. Were such a security breach to occur, the provision of products and services to customers of MPS would be impaired and could incur significant fines from the electronic funds associations involved, significant regulatory fines imposed by federal and/or state regulators and other prohibitions, as well as extensive litigation from commercial parties and consumers affected by such breach. Unclaimed funds represented by unused value on the cards presents compliance and other risks. The notion of escheatment involves property that is abandoned and its rightful owner cannot be readily located and/or identified. In the context of prepaid cards, the funds represented on such cards can sometimes be “abandoned” or unused for the relevant period of time set forth in each applicable state’s abandoned property laws. Although MPS utilizes automated programs to ensure its operations are compliant with such applicable laws and regulations, there appears to be a movement among some state regulators to interpret definitions in those statutes and regulations in a manner that is different from standard industry interpretations. Should such state regulators choose to do so, they may initiate enforcement or other litigation action against prepaid card issuers such as MPS. MPS operates in a highly competitive environment and the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel may be difficult. MPS competes in a highly competitive environment with other larger and better capitalized financial intermediaries. In addition, the field of professionals involved in the design and production of products and services offered by MPS is highly skilled and actively sought after by financial institutions, electronic card networks and other commercial entities. As such, MPS must spend significant sums to attract employees and executives and must monitor compensation and other employment trends to ensure that compensation packages both foster the necessary creative environment and appropriately compensate such individuals in order to retain them. MPS Revenue Concentration. MPS works with a large number of business partners to derive its revenue. The Company believes two of its partners have reached a size that, should these partners’ business with the Company end, the earnings attributable to them would have a material effect on the financial results of the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 