Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results include those described below as well as other risks and factors identified from time to time in our SEC filings. The Company’s business could be harmed by any of the risks noted below. The trading price of the Company’s common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, including the Company’s financial statements and related notes. 46 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Industry and Business Difficult economic and market conditions have adversely affected our industry. Dramatic declines in the housing market, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions across the United States. General downward economic trends, low growth, reduced availability of commercial credit and continued levels of high unemployment have negatively impacted the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write-downs. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to their customers and to each other. This market turmoil and tightening of credit has led to increased commercial and consumer deficiencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. Financial institutions have experienced decreased access to deposits and borrowings. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • Separate and apart from recent enforcement orders issued against the Bank and the Company, we face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities; • Customer demand for loans secured by real estate could be reduced due to weaker economic conditions, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or an increase in interest rates; • The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. The level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect the accuracy of our estimates which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process; • The value of the portfolio of investment securities that we hold, including our trust preferred securities, may be adversely affected; and • If, due to financial setbacks or other regulatory action, we may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC insurance premiums in the future. See “– Regulation.” The full impact of the recently enacted Dodd-Frank Act is currently unknown given that many of the details and substance of the new laws will be determined through agency rulemaking. The full compliance burden and impact on our operations and profitability with respect to the Dodd-Frank Act are currently unknown, as the Dodd-Frank Act delegates to various federal agencies the task of implementing its many provisions through regulation. Hundreds of new federal regulations, studies and reports are required under the Dodd-Frank Act and not all of them have been finalized. Although certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act have been implemented (such as the creation of the CFPB and the transfer of regulation of federal savings banks like the Bank to the OCC), federal rules and policies in this area will be further developing for months and years to come. Based on the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and anticipated implementing regulations, it is highly likely that banks and thrifts as well as their holding companies will be subject to significantly increased regulation and compliance obligations that expose us to noncompliance risk and consequences. 47 Table of Contents OTS and transfer of the OTS' supervisory and rulemaking functions to various federal banking agencies has changed the way that we are regulated. Both the Bank and Company have transitioned to the jurisdiction of new primary federal regulators, which changes the way both are regulated. Specifically, the OTS' supervisory and rulemaking functions (except for consumer protection) relating to all federal savings associations were transferred to the OCC on July 21, 2011, while the OTS' supervisory and rulemaking functions relating to savings and loan holding companies and their non-depository institution subsidiaries were transferred to the FRB on the same date. While the OCC and FRB are directed to implement existing OTS regulations, orders, resolutions, determinations and agreements for thrifts and their holding companies under the HOLA, the transition of supervisory functions from the OTS to these agencies could alter the operations of the Bank and Company so as to be more closely aligned with the OCC's and FRB's respective supervision of national banks and their bank holding companies. As a result of these transitions, we may see changes in the way we are supervised, and may experience operational challenges with respect to this transition to our new regulators. The Bank is currently being examined by the OCC. The CFPB may reshape the consumer financial laws through rulemaking and enforcement of unfair, deceptive or abusive practices, which may directly impact the business operations of depository institutions offering consumer financial products or services including the Bank. The CFPB has broad rulemaking authority to administer and carry out the purposes and objectives of the "Federal consumer financial laws, and to prevent evasions thereof," with respect to all financial institutions that offer financial products and services to consumers. The CFPB is also authorized to prescribe rules, applicable to any covered person or service provider, identifying and prohibiting acts or practices that are "unfair, deceptive, or abusive" in connection with any transaction with a consumer for a consumer financial product or service, or the offering of a consumer financial product or service ("UDAAP authority"). The term “abusive” is new and untested, and we cannot predict how it will be enforced. The full reach and impact of the CFPB's broad new rulemaking powers and UDAAP authority on the operations of financial institutions offering consumer financial products or services is currently unknown. Notwithstanding, insured depository institutions with assets of $10 billion or less (such as the Bank) will continue to be supervised and examined by their primary federal regulators, rather than the CFPB, with respect to compliance with federal consumer protection laws. Our most recent Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”) rating could have a negative effect on the OCC's review of certain banking applications. Under the CRA, the Bank is evaluated periodically by its primary federal banking regulator to determine if it is meeting its continuing and affirmative obligation consistent with its safe and sound operation to help meet the credit needs of its entire community, including low and moderate income neighborhoods. In the Bank’s most recent CRA examination, notwithstanding that the Bank’s record was consistent with an overall rating of “Satisfactory,” the Bank received a “Needs to Improve” rating due to the criticized credit practices associated with the iAdvance product, which the Bank is no longer offering. The CRA requires the OCC, our new regulator, to take such rating into account in considering an application for any of the following: (i) the establishment of a domestic branch; (ii) the relocation of its main office or of a branch; (iii) the merger or consolidation with or acquisition of assets or assumption of liabilities of an insured depository institution; or (iv) the conversion of the Bank to a national charter. If the Bank submitted any of the above-listed applications, the OCC may consider the Bank's overall “Needs to Improve” rating negatively. Legislative and regulatory initiatives taken to date may not achieve their intended objectives; proposed and future initiatives may substantially increase compliance burdens and further impact our financial condition or results of operations. Legislative and regulatory initiatives taken to date by Congress and the federal banking regulators to address financial regulatory reform may not achieve their intended objectives, thereby requiring additional legislation or regulation of the financial services industry. Furthermore, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and other international bodies comprised of banking regulators have committed to raise capital standards and liquidity buffers within the banking system by imposing new requirements. Such proposals may impose more stringent standards than currently applicable or anticipated with respect to capital and liquidity requirements for depository institutions. As of the date of this filing, none of the federal banking agencies has released proposed rules related to the current Basel Committee proposal (Basel III); however, it is generally anticipated within the industry that the Federal Reserve will place the burden of proof on individual institutions to demonstrate that they are on a trajectory to comply with higher capital requirements under Basel III, prior to its implementation, and institutions that fail to meet that burden may be subject to regulatory restrictions that curtail dividends, limit growth or similar actions. We cannot predict whether such proposals will ultimately be adopted, or the impact that such proposals, if adopted, would have upon our financial condition or results of operations. 48 Table of Contents We have a concentration of our assets in mortgage-backed securities. As of September 30, 2011 approximately 46.3% of the Bank’s assets were invested in mortgage-backed securities. The Company’s mortgage-backed and related securities portfolio consists primarily of securities issued under government-sponsored agency programs, including those of Ginnie Mae, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the latter two of which are in conservatorship. The Ginnie Mae, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac certificates are modified pass-through mortgage-backed securities that represent undivided interests in underlying pools of fixed-rate, or certain types of adjustable-rate, predominantly single-family and, to a lesser extent, multi-family residential mortgages issued by these government-sponsored entities. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac generally provide the certificate holder a guarantee of timely payments of interest, whether or not collected. Ginnie Mae’s guarantee to the holder is timely payments of principal and interest, backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. Government. Privately issued mortgage pass-through certificates generally provide no guarantee as to timely payment of interest or principal, and reliance is placed on the creditworthiness of the issuer. Mortgage-backed securities generally increase the quality of the Company’s assets by virtue of the insurance or guarantees that back them, are more liquid than individual mortgage loans and may be used to collateralize borrowings or other obligations of the Company. While mortgage-backed securities carry a reduced credit risk as compared to whole loans, such securities remain subject to the risk that a fluctuating interest rate environment, along with other factors such as the geographic distribution of the underlying mortgage loans, may alter the prepayment rate of such mortgage loans and so affect both the prepayment speed, and value, of such securities. The prepayment risk associated with mortgage-backed securities is monitored periodically, and prepayment rate assumptions adjusted as appropriate to update the Company’s mortgage-backed securities accounting and asset/liability reports. We recorded other-than-temporary impairment ("OTTI") charges in our trust preferred securities ("TRUPS") portfolio in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, and we could record additional losses in the future. We determine the fair value of our investment securities based on GAAP and three levels of informational inputs that may be used to measure fair value. The price at which a security may be sold in a market transaction could be significantly lower than the quoted market price for the security, particularly if the quoted market price is based on infrequent trading history, the market for the security is illiquid, or a significant amount of securities are being sold. In fiscal 2011, there were no other-than-temporary impairments recorded. In fiscal 2010, the other-than-temporary impairments recorded against the trust preferred securities were $350,000. No other-than-temporary impairments were recorded against earnings during fiscal 2009. The valuation of our TRUPS will continue to be influenced by external market and other factors, including implementation of Securities and Exchange Commission and Financial Accounting Standards Board guidance on fair value accounting, the financial condition of specific issuers deferral and default rates of specific issuer financial institutions, rating agency actions, and the prices at which observable market transactions occur. If we are required to record additional OTTI charges on our TRUPS portfolio, we could experience potentially significant earnings losses as well as an adverse impact to our capital position. 49 Table of Contents Under the recently enacted Dodd-Frank Act, TRUPS issued on or after May 19, 2010 are no longer eligible for inclusion in Tier 1 capital. For trust preferred securities issued before May 19, 2010, regulatory capital deductions will generally be required during a phase in period from January 1, 2013 to January 1, 2016; however, depository institution holding companies with assets of less than $15 billion as of year-end 2009 enjoy a permanent grandfather right with respect to such securities for purposes of calculating regulatory capital. Risks Related to the Banking Industry Our reputation and business could be damaged by our entry into the Consent Orders and other negative publicity. Reputational risk, or the risk to our business, earnings and capital from negative publicity, is inherent in our business. Negative publicity can result from actual or alleged conduct in a number of areas, including legal and regulatory compliance, lending practices, corporate governance, litigation, inadequate protection of customer data, ethical behavior of our employees, and from actions taken by regulators and others as a result of that conduct. Damage to our reputation, including as a result of negative publicity associated with the Consent Orders as well as any future supervisory action, could impact our ability to attract new and maintain existing loan and deposit customers, employees and business relationships, particularly with respect to our MPS division. We are subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud. There have been a number of publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees of financial services firms in recent years. Misconduct by our employees could include hiding unauthorized activities from us, improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of our customers or improper use of confidential information. Employee fraud, errors and employee and customer misconduct could subject us to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation. It is not always possible to prevent employee errors and misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Employee errors could also subject us to civil claims for negligence. See Item 3. “Legal Proceedings.” Although we maintain a system of internal controls and procedures designed to reduce the risk of loss from employee or customer fraud or misconduct and employee errors as well as insurance coverage to mitigate against operational risks, including data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud, these internal controls may fail to prevent or detect such an occurrence, or such an occurrence may not be insured or exceeds applicable insurance limits. In addition, there have also been a number of cases where financial institutions have been the victim of fraud related to unauthorized wire and Automated Clearinghouse transactions. The facts and circumstances of each case vary but generally involve criminals posing as customers (i.e., stealing bank customers' identities) to transfer funds out of the institution quickly in an effort to place the funds beyond recovery prior to detection. Although we have policies and procedures in place to verify the authenticity of our customers and prevent identity theft, we can provide no assurances that these policies and procedures will prevent all fraudulent transfers. In addition, although we have safeguards in place, it is possible that our computer systems could be infiltrated by hackers or other intruders. We can provide no assurances that these safeguards will prevent all unauthorized infiltrations. Identity theft and successful unauthorized intrusions could result in reputational damage and financial losses to the Company. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Certain provisions of the Volcker Rule (as set forth in the Dodd-Frank Act) may affect our operations. The Federal Reserve, along with the FDIC, the OCC, the SEC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, released in October 2011 a proposed rule implementing the Volcker Rule as set forth in Section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act. Section 619 generally prohibits insured depository institutions, bank holding companies and their subsidiaries or affiliates from engaging in short-term proprietary trading of any security, derivative and certain other financial instruments for a banking entity’s own account, subject to certain exemptions. Section 619 also prohibits owning, sponsoring or having certain relationships with a hedge fund or private equity fund, subject to certain exemptions. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act prohibits banking entities from engaging in an exempted transaction or activity if it would involve or result in a material conflict of interest between the banking entity and its clients, customers or counterparties, or that would result in a material exposure to high-risk assets or trading strategies, as defined therein. In addition, banking entities are prohibited from engaging in an exempted transaction or activity if it would pose a threat to the safety and soundness of the banking entity or to the financial stability of the United States. Transactions in certain instruments (such as obligations of the U.S. government or a U.S. government agency) are exempt from these prohibitions. Although a final rule implementing Section 619 has not yet been adopted by federal regulators, if adopted as drafted, the effect on the Company and the Bank is undetermined. 50 Table of Contents Changes in economic and political conditions could adversely affect the Company’s earnings, as the Company’s borrowers’ ability to repay loans and the value of the collateral securing the Company’s loans decline. The Company’s success depends, to a certain extent, upon economic and political conditions, local and national, as well as governmental monetary policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates, money supply and other factors beyond the Company’s control may adversely affect the Company’s asset quality, deposit levels and loan demand and, therefore, the Company’s earnings. Because the Company has a significant amount of real estate loans, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral. Among other things, adverse changes in the economy, including but not limited to the current economic downturn, may also have a negative effect on the ability of the Company’s borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on the Company’s earnings. In addition, the vast majority of the Company’s loans are to individuals and businesses in the Company’s market area. Consequently, any economic decline in the Company’s market area could have an adverse impact on the Company’s earnings. Recessionary environment may adversely impact the Company’s earnings and continuing and new governmental initiatives may not prove effective. The national and global economic downturn has recently resulted in heightened levels of market volatility locally, nationally and internationally. This downturn has depressed the overall market value of financial institutions, and may limit or impede industry access to capital, or have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of banking companies in general, including the Company, with respect to, for example, the establishment of reserves should conditions deteriorate further. Although the U.S. Department of the Treasury and the FDIC, among others, implemented programs in an effort to stabilize the national economy, the ultimate effectiveness of these programs remains uncertain at this time. Further, failure of the U.S. Congress to address the expanding national deficit, as well as problems associated with sovereign debt in Europe, may worsen the U.S. economy, both nationally and locally, causing an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s earnings depend substantially on the Company’s interest rate spread, which is the difference between (i) the rates we earn on loans, securities and other earning assets, and (ii) the interest rates we pay on deposits and other borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. As market interest rates rise, we will have competitive pressures to increase the rates we pay on deposits, which may result in a decrease of the Company’s net interest income. Conversely, if interest rates fall, yields on loans and investments may fall. Because a significant portion of the Company’s deposit portfolio is in non-interest bearing accounts, such a change in rates would likely result in a decrease in the Company’s net interest income. For additional information, see Part II, Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” 51 Table of Contents The Company operates in a highly regulated environment, and changes in laws and regulations to which we are subject may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company and the Bank operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC, the FDIC and the Federal Reserve. As of July 21, 2011, the Company has been supervised by the Federal Reserve, and the Bank has been supervised by the OCC and the FDIC. See Item 1 “Business – Regulation” herein. Applicable laws and regulations may change and the enforcement of existing laws and regulations may vary when actions are evaluated by these new regulators, and there is no assurance that such changes will not adversely affect the Company’s business. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including but not limited to the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution’s allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of restrictions on activities, regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, including but not limited to changes in the regulations governing savings banks, could have a material impact on the Company’s operations. It is unknown at this time to what extent legislation will be passed into law or regulatory proposals will be adopted, or the effect that such passage or adoption will have on the banking industry or the Company. Changes in technology could be costly. The banking industry is undergoing technological innovation at a fast pace. To keep up with its competition, the Company needs to stay abreast of innovations and evaluate those technologies that will enable it to compete on a cost-effective basis. This is especially true with respect to MPS. The cost of such technology, including personnel, can be high in both absolute and relative terms. There can be no assurance, given the fast pace of change and innovation, that the Company’s technology, either purchased or developed internally, will meet or continue to meet the needs of the Company. Risks Related to the Company’s Business The entry into the Consent Orders has imposed certain restrictions and requirements upon the Company and the Bank and we cannot predict the possibility of future regulatory action. As has been described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Company and the Bank entered into Consent Orders with the OTS in July 2011. Pursuant to the Consent Orders, the Company and the Bank are required to take certain actions and implement certain policies and procedures. These corrective actions have resulted in increased compliance costs for internal and external resources and have been a diversion from the Bank’s continuing operations. Although the Company and the Bank believe they are taking appropriate actions to comply with the Consent Orders, the Federal Reserve and the OCC will make such determinations during the course of their supervisory examinations; one of which is now pending with the OCC; any failures to comply with the Consent Orders could lead to additional regulatory actions by such regulators. See “Business – Regulation – Bank Supervision and Regulation – OTS Consent Orders and Related Matters” which is included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The compliance obligations and restrictions on our interest payments and dividends under the recent OTS enforcement actions may have an adverse effect on us and preclude payments to holders of our securities. Among other things, the Consent Orders require the Company and Bank to submit to the OTS (or its successor) various management and compliance plans and programs to address the matters initially identified in the OTS supervisory directives as well as plans for enhancing Company and Bank capital, and require OTS non-objection for Company cash dividends, distributions, share repurchases, payments of interest or principal on debt and incurrence of debt. Our compliance with the Consent Orders will be subject to the review and supervision of the OCC with respect the Bank and the Federal Reserve Board with respect to the Company. There can be no assurance that we can fully comply with the requirement of the Consent Orders or receive non-objection to our payment of dividends and interest or any other activity for which non-objection or approval is required. See “Business – Regulation – Bank Supervision and Regulation – OTS Consent Orders and Related Matters” which is included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 52 Table of Contents The OCC and Federal Reserve are now our banking regulators and we may not be able to comply with applicable banking regulations and the terms of the Consent Orders to their satisfaction. As a result of the integration of the OTS into the OCC, our on-going compliance with applicable banking laws and the Consent Orders will be subject to the review and supervision of the OCC with respect the Bank and the Federal Reserve with respect to the Company, both of which are new bank regulators for us as of July 21, 2011. We cannot predict how the OCC and the Federal Reserve will evaluate the Bank and us, respectively, notwithstanding our intention to cooperate fully with our new regulators. Our bank regulators have broad discretionary powers to enforce banking laws and regulations and may seek to take informal or formal supervisory action if they deem such actions are necessary or required. In connection with its new supervision authority with respect to savings and loan holding companies, the Federal Reserve issued a proposed rule in April 2011 that announced that its supervision would be “more intensive” than our former regulator, the OTS. Corrective steps could result in, among other things, presently unforeseen operating limitations and increased compliance costs for internal and external resources. The Company operates in an extremely competitive market, and the Company’s business will suffer if it is unable to compete effectively. The Company encounters significant competition in the Company’s market area from other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market mutual funds and other financial intermediaries. Many of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits and may offer services that the Company does not or cannot provide. The Company’s profitability depends upon the Company’s continued ability to compete successfully in the Company’s market area. MPS operates on a national scale against competitors with substantially greater resources and limited barriers to entry, as well as the fact that most competitors are not operating under restrictions similar to those imposed upon the Company and the Bank in the Consent Orders. The success of MPS depends upon the Company’s and the Bank’s ability to satisfy the requirements set forth in their respective Consent Orders and the MPS division’s ability to compete in such an environment. The Bank is “well capitalized” under existing bank regulations but failure to maintain this designation could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity and results of operations. In addition, our regulator could limit our ability to raise deposits, which could produce serious adverse consequences for our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. By letter dated December 28, 2010, the OTS directed the Bank not to increase the amount of brokered deposits from the amount it held at December 28, 2010 without the prior written non-objection of the OTS Regional Director. The Bank believes it did not hold any brokered deposits on December 28, 2010 or thereafter, and therefore does not anticipate seeking approval. At the direction of the OTS, the Bank requested the FDIC to confirm that deposits related to a specific prepaid program were not brokered deposits. The Bank has not yet received a reply from FDIC. At the time the directive was issued, OTS staff stated that it would not seek retroactively to enforce the directive for any growth that occurs subsequent to December 28, 2010, given the Bank's request to the FDIC. The Bank tendered its request to the FDIC in December 2010. The Bank has been advised that the FDIC will consider the Bank's request in the context of its broader industry reevaluation of brokered deposits in general. In addition, under current rules, if a substantial portion of the Bank's deposits are ruled to be "brokered," and should the Bank's primary federal regulator decide to impose a formal individual minimum capital requirement or similar formal requirement on the Bank notwithstanding that the Bank is well-capitalized, the Bank would be prohibited, absent waiver from the FDIC, from utilizing brokered deposits. In either event, unless the Bank receives relief from its regulator or a waiver from the FDIC, such a result could produce serious adverse consequences for the Bank from a liquidity standpoint and could also have serious adverse effects on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. We derive a significant percentage of our deposits, total assets and income from deposit accounts that we generate through MPS’s customer relationships. We derive a significant percentage of our deposits, total assets and income from deposit accounts we generate through customer relationships between such third parties and MPS. Deposits related to our top three customers (each, a significant customer) totaled $561.5 million at September 30, 2011. We provide oversight and auditing of such third-party relationships and all such relationships must meet all internal and regulatory requirements. We may exit these relationships if such requirements are not met or if required by our regulators to exit such relationships. We perform liquidity reporting and planning daily and identify and monitor contingent sources of liquidity, such as National CDs, Fed Fund Lines, or Public Fund CDs. If one of these significant customers were to be terminated, it could materially reduce our deposits, assets and income. In addition, pursuant to the Bank’s Consent Order, if one of these relationships were to terminate before the termination of the Consent Order, we would not be able to replace such relationship without first identifying a new contracting party and then obtaining approval to enter into such agreement from the OCC. If such significant customer was not replaced, we may be required to seek higher rate funding sources as compared to the existing customer and interest expense might increase. We may also be required to sell securities or other assets which would reduce revenues and potentially generate losses. 53 Table of Contents Our business strategy is utilized by other institutions with which we compete and the Consent Orders prevent us from actively marketing the Bank’s products and services. Several banking institutions have adopted business goals that are similar to ours, particularly with respect to the MPS division. As a consequence, we have encountered competition in this area and anticipate that we will continue to do so in the future. This competition will likely increase our costs, reduce our revenues or revenue growth, or make it difficult for us to compete effectively in obtaining additional customer relationships. In addition, pursuant to the Consent Orders, we are not allowed to sign any new material agreements with customers unless we are granted specific permission to do so, or until the terms of the Consent Orders are rescinded. As a result, until the terms of the Consent Orders are lifted, we are at a competitive disadvantage with respect to growing the Bank’s profitable MPS division. Existing insurance policies may not adequately protect the Company and its subsidiaries. Fidelity, business interruption and property insurance policies are in place with respect to the operations of the Company. Should any event triggering such policies occur, however, it is possible that our policies would not fully reimburse us for the losses we could sustain due to deductible limits, policy limits, coverage limits or other factors. The loss of key members of the Company’s senior management team could adversely affect the Company’s business. We believe that the Company’s success depends largely on the efforts and abilities of the Company’s senior management. Their experience and industry contacts significantly benefit us. The competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry is intense, and the loss of any of the Company’s key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company’s loan portfolio includes loans with a higher risk of loss. The Company originates commercial mortgage loans, commercial loans, consumer loans, agricultural mortgage loans, agricultural loans and residential mortgage loans. Commercial mortgage, commercial, and consumer loans may expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans may not be sold as easily as residential real estate. These loans also have greater credit risk than residential real estate for the following reasons: · Commercial Mortgage Loans. Repayment is dependent upon income being generated in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. · Commercial Loans. Repayment is dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower’s business. · Consumer Loans. Consumer loans (such as personal lines of credit) are collateralized, if at all, with assets that may not provide an adequate source of payment of the loan due to depreciation, damage, or loss. · Agricultural Loans. Repayment is dependent upon the successful operation of the business, which is greatly dependent on many things outside the control of either the Bank or the borrowers. These factors include weather, commodity prices, and interest rates, among others. 54 Table of Contents If the Company’s actual loan losses exceed the Company’s allowance for loan losses, the Company’s net income will decrease. The Company makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of the Company’s loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of the Company’s borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of the Company’s loans. Despite the Company’s underwriting and monitoring practices, the Company’s loan customers may not repay their loans according to their terms, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. The Company may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on its operating results. Because the Company must use assumptions regarding individual loans and the economy, the current allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and increases in the allowance may be necessary. The Company may need to significantly increase the Company’s provision for losses on loans if one or more of the Company’s larger loans or credit relationships becomes delinquent or if we continue to expand the Company’s commercial real estate and commercial lending. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review the Company’s allowance for loan losses and may require the Company to increase the Company’s provision for loan losses or recognize loan charge-offs. Material additions to the Company’s allowance would materially decrease the Company’s net income. The Company cannot assure you that its monitoring procedures and policies will reduce certain lending risks or that the Company’s allowance for loan losses will be adequate to cover actual losses. If the Company forecloses on and takes ownership of real estate collateral property, it may be subject to the increased costs associated with the ownership of real property, resulting in reduced revenues. The Company may have to foreclose on collateral property to protect its investment and may thereafter own and operate such property. In such case, the Company will be exposed to the risks inherent in the ownership of real estate. The amount that the Company, as a mortgagee, may realize after a default is dependent upon factors outside of the Company’s control, including, but not limited to: (i) general or local economic conditions; (ii) neighborhood values; (iii) interest rates; (iv) real estate tax rates; (v) operating expenses of the mortgaged properties; (vi) supply of and demand for rental units or properties; (vii) ability to obtain and maintain adequate occupancy of the properties; (viii) zoning laws; (ix) governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies; and (x) acts of God. Certain expenditures associated with the ownership of real estate, principally real estate taxes and maintenance costs, may adversely affect the income from the real estate. Therefore, the cost of operating a real property may exceed the rental income earned from such property, and the Company may have to advance funds in order to protect the Company’s investment, or may be required to dispose of the real property at a loss. The foregoing expenditures and costs could adversely affect the Company’s ability to generate revenues, resulting in reduced levels of profitability. Environmental liability associated with commercial lending could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In the course of the Company’s business, it may acquire, through foreclosure, commercial properties securing loans that are in default. There is a risk that hazardous substances could be discovered on those properties. In this event, the Company could be required to remove the substances from and remediate the properties at its own cost and expense. The cost of removal and environmental remediation could be substantial. The Company may not have adequate remedies against the owners of the properties or other responsible parties and could find it difficult or impossible to sell the affected properties. These events could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and operating results. If the Company fails to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, it may not be able to accurately report the Company’s financial results or prevent fraud, and, as a result, investors and depositors could lose confidence in the Company’s financial reporting, which could adversely affect the Company’s business, the trading price of the Company’s stock and the Company’s ability to attract additional deposits. In recent years, the Company has been required to include in its annual reports filed with the SEC a report of the Company’s management regarding internal control over financial reporting. We have documented and evaluated the Company’s internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and SEC rules and regulations, which require an annual management report on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, including, among other matters, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. In order to comply with this requirement, management retained outside consultants to assist the Company in (i) assessing and documenting the adequacy of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, (ii) improving control processes, where appropriate, and (iii) verifying through testing or other means that controls are functioning as documented. Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting is contained in Item 9A below. If the Company fails to identify and correct any significant deficiencies in the design or operating effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting or fails to prevent fraud, current and potential stockholders and depositors could lose confidence in the Company’s financial reporting, which could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, the trading price of the Company’s stock, and the Company’s ability to attract additional deposits. 55 Table of Contents No material weaknesses have been identified in connection with the Company’s fiscal year 2011 audit. If material weaknesses are identified in the future, such weaknesses could have a material impact on the profitability and performance of the Company. A breach of information security or compliance breach by one of the Company’s agents or vendors could negatively affect the Company’s reputation and business. The Company depends on data processing, communication and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks and over the internet. No system, including ours, is entirely free from vulnerability to attack, despite safeguards. Additionally, the Company relies on and does business with a variety of third-party service providers, agents and vendors with respect to the Company’s business, data and communications needs. If information security is breached, or one of the Company’s agents or vendors breaches compliance procedures, information could be lost or misappropriated, resulting in financial loss or costs to the Company or damages to others. These costs or losses could materially exceed the Company’s amount of insurance coverage, if any, which would adversely affect the Company’s business. Risks Related to the Company’s Stock The price of the Company’s common stock may be volatile, which may result in losses for investors. The market price for shares of the Company’s common stock has been volatile in the past, and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future. These factors include: · announcements of developments related to the Company’s business, · fluctuations in the Company’s results of operations, · sales of substantial amounts of the Company’s securities into the marketplace, · general conditions in the Company’s banking niche or the worldwide economy, · a shortfall in revenues or earnings compared to securities analysts’ expectations, · lack of an active trading market for the common stock, · changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections, and · the Company’s announcement of new acquisitions or other projects. The market price of the Company’s common stock may fluctuate significantly in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to the Company’s performance. General market price declines or market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of the Company’s common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. 56 Table of Contents An investment in Company common stock is not an insured deposit. Our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and is subject to market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you hold or acquire our common stock, it is possible that you may lose all or a portion of your investment. The Company’s common stock is thinly traded, and thus your ability to sell shares or purchase additional shares of the Company’s common stock will be limited, and the market price at any time may not reflect true value. Your ability to sell shares of the Company’s common stock or purchase additional shares largely depends upon the existence of an active market for the common stock. The Company’s common stock is quoted on NASDAQ Global Market, but the volume of trades on any given day is light, and you may be unable to find a buyer for shares you wish to sell or a seller of additional shares you wish to purchase. In addition, a fair valuation of the purchase or sales price of a share of common stock also depends upon active trading, and thus the price you receive for a thinly traded stock, such as the Company’s common stock, may not reflect its true value. Future sales or additional issuances of the Company’s capital stock may depress prices of shares of the Company’s common stock or otherwise dilute the book value of shares then outstanding. Sales of a substantial amount of the Company’s capital stock in the public market or the issuance of a significant number of shares could adversely affect the market price for shares of the Company’s common stock. As of September 30, 2011, the Company was authorized to issue up to 5,200,000 shares of common stock, of which 3,146,867 shares were outstanding, and 226,132 shares were held as treasury stock. The Company was also authorized to issue up to 800,000 shares of preferred stock, none of which is outstanding or reserved for issuance. Accordingly, without further stockholder approval, the Company may issue up to 2,053,133 additional shares of common stock. This factor may affect the market price for shares of the Company’s common stock. Federal regulations may inhibit a takeover, prevent a transaction you may favor or limit the Company’s growth opportunities, which could cause the market price of the Company’s common stock to decline. Certain provisions of the Company’s charter documents and federal regulations could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of the company. In addition, the Company must obtain approval from regulatory authorities before it can acquire control of any other company. The Company may not be able to pay dividends in the future in accordance with past practice. The Company pays a quarterly dividend to stockholders. The payment of dividends is subject to legal and regulatory restrictions as well as a requirement for prior approval by the Federal Reserve pursuant to the Consent Orders. Any payment of dividends in the future will depend, in large part, on the Company’s earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, regulatory review, and other factors considered relevant by the Company’s Board of Directors. Our agricultural loans are subject to factors beyond the Bank’s control. The agricultural community is subject to commodity price fluctuations. Although our agricultural loans are a relatively limited part of our overall portfolio, extended periods of low commodity prices, higher input costs, or poor weather conditions could result in reduced profit margins, reducing demand for goods and services provided by agriculture-related businesses, which in turn, could affect other businesses in the Company’s market area. 57 Table of Contents Risks Related to Meta Payment Systems®, a division of the Bank MPS’ products and services are highly regulated financial products subject to extensive supervision and regulation. The products and services offered by MPS are highly regulated by federal banking agencies, state banking agencies, and other federal and state regulators. Some of the laws and related regulations affecting its operations include consumer protection laws, escheat laws, privacy laws, anti-money laundering laws and data protection laws. Compliance with the relevant legal paradigm in which the division operates is costly and requires significant personnel resources, as well as extensive contacts with outside lawyers and consultants hired by MPS to stay abreast of the applicable regulatory schemes. The Dodd-Frank Act’s restrictions with respect to the cap on debit card interchange could negatively affect the Bank’s business. On June 29, 2011, the Federal Reserve issued a rule establishing standards for debit card interchange fees and prohibiting network exclusivity arrangements and routing restrictions (the “Debit Card Rule”). The issuance of the Debit Card Rule was required by the Dodd-Frank Act. Pursuant to the Debit Card Rule, the maximum permissible interchange fee that an issuer may receive for an electronic debit transaction will be $0.21 per transaction and five basis points multiplied by the value of the transaction. The Federal Reserve also approved an interim final rule that allows for an upward adjustment of no more than $0.01 to an issuer's debit card interchange fee if the issuer develops and implements policies and procedures reasonably designed to achieve the fraud-prevention standards set out in the interim final rule. Eligibility for the assessment of this fee must be certified by the issuing bank. As set forth in the issuing release, when the maximum interchange fee is combined with fraud-prevention assessment, an issuing bank could receive an interchange fee of up to approximately 24 cents for the average debit card transaction, which is valued at $38 according to the Federal Reserve. In accordance with the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, issuers that, together with their affiliates, have assets of less than $10 billion (like the Bank) are exempt from the debit card interchange fee standards. With respect to network exclusivity and merchant routing restrictions, it is now required that all debit cards participate in at least two unaffiliated networks so that the transactions initiated using those debit cards will have at least two independent routing channels. While some proposed legislation would benefit MPS, it is possible that new legislation or more stringent focus by banking agencies could further restrict MPS’ current operations or change the regulatory environment in which the division’s customers operate. Although it is possible that some legislation under consideration could have either a positive or de minimis impact on its operations and profitability it is also possible that any new legislation affecting the operations of MPS or its customers, some of which are also regulated entities, would have a negative impact on the conduct of the relevant business. There is no way to quantify the impact that such changes could have on the profitability or operations of MPS at this time given the unpredictable nature of the risk. In addition to the relevant legal paradigm set forth above, it should also be noted that there has been concern within the bank regulatory environment over the use of credit and, in particular, prepaid cards as a means by which to illegally launder and move money. The U.S. Treasury’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network has recently issued rules related to providers of “prepaid access” which have left certain issues unresolved related to its regulatory requirements. Although the Bank will continue to work with its regulators to provide information about its operations as well as the state of the prepaid card industry, we believe such concerns in general will continue for the foreseeable future for the entire banking industry, with a continued emphasis on heightened compliance expectations. See “Business Regulation – Bank Supervision and Regulation” which is included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 58 Table of Contents MPS, through the Bank, owns or is seeking a number of patents, trademarks and other forms of intellectual property with respect to the operation of its business and the protection of such intellectual property may in the future require material expenditures. In its operations, MPS, through the Bank, is seeking protection for various forms of intellectual property. No assurance can be given that such protection will be granted. In addition, given the competitive market environment of its business, the Bank must be vigilant in ensuring that its patents and other intellectual property are protected and not exploited by unlicensed third parties. The Bank must also protect itself and defend against intellectual property challenges initiated by third parties making various claims against MPS. With respect to these claims, regardless of whether we are pursuing our claims against perceived infringers or defending our intellectual property from third parties asserting various claims of infringement, it is possible that significant personnel time and monetary resources could be used to pursue or defend such claims. It should also be noted that intellectual property risks extend to foreign countries whose protections of such property are not as extensive as those in the United States. As such, MPS may need to spend additional sums to ensure that its intellectual property protections are maximized globally. Moreover, should there be a material, improper use of the Bank’s intellectual property, this could have an impact on the division’s operations. Contracts with third-parties, some of which are material to the Company, may not be renewed, may be renegotiated on terms that are not as favorable, may not be fulfilled or could be subject to cancellation by regulatory authorities. The Bank has entered into numerous contracts with third parties with respect to the operations of its business. In some instances, the third parties provide services to MPS; in other instances, MPS provides products and services to such third parties. Were such agreements not to be renewed by the third party or were such agreements to be renewed on terms less favorable, such actions could have a material impact on the division’s profitability and deposit levels. Similarly, were one of these parties unable to meet their obligations to us for any reason (including but not limited to bankruptcy, computer or other technological interruptions or failures, personnel loss or acts of God), we may need to seek alternative service providers and the terms with such alternate providers may not be as favorable as those currently in place. In addition, were such failures to cause a material disruption in our ability to service our customers, it is possible that our customer base would shrink. Moreover, were the disruptions in our ability to provide services significant, this could negatively affect the perception of our business in the card industry. In addition, as described earlier, in the Consent Orders our regulator noted deficiencies with respect to our third party relationships. As a result, we have initiated a review of our auditing program for third parties with whom we contract (as well as other business changes required both by the Consent Orders and general business practices) and have made certain business decisions related to determinations reached by our auditing personnel. If we are unsuccessful in the development and/or implementation of our third party auditing program, it is possible that the OCC could order us to abrogate certain contracts or take other supervisory actions against us which would further impact the MPS business, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. See “Business Regulation – Bank Supervision and Regulation- OTS Consent Orders and Related Matters” which is included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Costs of conforming products and services to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards (the “PCI DSS”) are costly and could continue to affect the operations of MPS. The PCI DSS is a multifaceted standard that includes data security management, policies and procedures, as well as other protective measures, that was created by the largest credit card associations in the world in an effort to protect the nonpublic personal information of all types of cardholders, including prepaid cardholders and holders of network branded credit cards (such as Discover, MasterCard, and Visa). The PCI DSS mandates a prescribed technical foundation for the collection, storage and transmission of cardholder data and also contains significant provisions regarding the testing of security protections by various entities in the payment card industry, including MPS. Compliance with the PCI DSS is costly and changes to the standards could have an equal, or greater, effect on profitability of the relevant business division. 59 Table of Contents The potential for fraud in the card payment industry is significant. Issuers of prepaid and credit cards have suffered significant losses in recent years with respect to the theft of cardholder data that has been illegally exploited for personal gain. The theft of such information is regularly reported and affects not only individuals but businesses as well (albeit to a lesser degree). Many types of credit card fraud exist, including the counterfeiting of cards and “skimming.” “Skimming” is the term for a specialized type of credit card information theft whereby, typically, an employee of a merchant will copy the cardholder’s number and security code (either by handwriting the information onto a piece of paper, entering such information into a keypad or other device, or using a handheld device which “reads” and then stores the card information embedded in the magnetic strip). Once a credit card number and security code has been skimmed, the skimmer can use such information for purchases until the unauthorized use is detected either by the cardholder or the card issuer. Losses from skimming have been substantial for certain card industry participants. Although skimming has not had a material impact on the profitability of the Bank, it is possible that such activity could impact this division at some time in the future. Part of our business depends on sales agents who do not sell our products exclusively. Our business model, to some degree, depends upon the use of sales agents who are not our employees. These agents sell the products and services of many different processors to merchants and other parties in need of a card services. Failure to maintain good relations with such sales agents could have a negative impact on our business. In addition, new third party relationships have been restricted absent prior approval of OCC. “Business Regulation - Bank Supervision and Regulation – OTS Consent Orders and Related Matters” which is included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Products and services offered by MPS involve many business parties and the possibility of collusion exists. As described above, the theft of cardholder data is a significant threat in the industry in which MPS operates. This threat also includes the possibility that there is collusion between certain participants in the card system to act illegally. Although MPS is not aware of any instances to date, it is possible that such activities could occur in the future, thereby impacting its operation and profitability. Competition in the card industry is significant. In order to maintain an edge to its products and offerings, MPS must invest significantly in technology and research and development. The heavy emphasis upon technology in the products and services offered by MPS requires significant expenditures with respect to research and development both to exploit technological gains and to develop new products and services to meet customers’ needs. As is common with most research and development, while some efforts may yield substantial benefits for the division, others will not, thereby resulting in expenditures for which profits will not be realized. MPS is not able to predict with any degree of certainty as to the level of research and development that will be required in the future, how much those efforts will cost, or how profitable such developments will be for the division once undertaken. Discover, MasterCard, and Visa, as well as other electronic funds networks in which MPS operates, could change their rules. Pursuant to the agreements between MPS and Discover, MasterCard, Visa and other card networks, these third parties typically have retained the right to prescribe certain business practices and procedures with respect to parties such as MPS. Such prescribed terms include, but are not limited to, a contracting party’s level of capital as well as other business requirements. Discover, MasterCard, and Visa also retain the right in their agreements with industry participants such as MPS to unilaterally change the rules under which such transactions are processed with little or no advance warning. This power includes the power to prevent MPS from accessing their networks in order to process transactions. Should any third party choose to invoke this right unilaterally, such changes could materially impact the operations of MPS. 60 Table of Contents Our business is heavily dependent upon the Internet and any negative disruptions to its operation could negatively impact our business. Much of our business depends upon transactions being processed through the Internet. Like nearly all other commercial enterprises, we rely upon others to provide the Internet so that commerce can be conducted. Were there to be a failure in the operation of the Internet or a significant impairment in our ability to move information on the Internet or our ability to do so in accordance with customer safeguard protocols, MPS would develop alternative processes during which time revenues and profitability may be lower. Our ability to process transactions requires functioning communication and electricity lines. The nature of the credit card and debit card industry is that it must be operational every day of the week every hour of the week. Any disruption in the utilities utilized by MPS could have a negative effect on our operations and extensive disruptions could materially affect our operations. Data encryption technology has not been perfected and vigilance in MPS’ information technology systems is costly. MPS holds sensitive business and personal information with respect to the products and services it offers. This information, which is generally digitally encrypted, is passed along various technology channels, including the Internet. Although MPS encrypts its customer and other sensitive information and expends significant financial and personnel resources to maintain the integrity of its technology networks and the confidentiality of nonpublic customer information, because such information may travel on public technology and other non-secure channels, the confidential information is potentially susceptible to hacking and other illegal intrusions. Were such a security breach to occur, the provision of products and services to customers of MPS would be impaired. In addition, we could incur significant fines from the electronic funds associations involved, or from federal and/or state regulators, and be subject to other prohibitions, as well as extensive litigation from commercial parties and consumers affected by such breach. Unclaimed funds represented by unused value on the cards presents compliance and other risks. The notion of escheatment involves property that is abandoned and its rightful owner cannot be readily located and/or identified. In the context of prepaid cards, the funds represented on such cards can sometimes be “abandoned” or unused for the relevant period of time set forth in each applicable state’s abandoned property laws. Although MPS utilizes automated programs to ensure its operations are compliant with such applicable laws and regulations, there appears to be a movement among some state regulators to interpret definitions in those statutes and regulations in a manner that is different from standard industry interpretations. Should such state regulators choose to do so, they may initiate enforcement or other litigation action against prepaid card issuers such as MPS. MPS operates in a highly competitive environment and the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel may be difficult. MPS competes in a highly competitive environment with other larger and better capitalized financial intermediaries. In addition, the field of professionals involved in the design and production of products and services offered by MPS is highly skilled and actively sought after by financial institutions, electronic card networks and other commercial entities. As such, MPS must spend significant sums to attract employees and executives and must monitor compensation and other employment trends to ensure that compensation packages both foster the necessary creative environment and appropriately compensate such individuals in order to retain them. 61 Table of Contents MPS Revenue Concentration. MPS works with a large number of business partners to derive its revenue. The Company believes three of its partners have reached a size that, should these partners’ business with the Company end, the earnings attributable to them would have a material effect on the financial results of the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 