Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s business could be harmed by any of the risks noted below. The trading price of the Company’s common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In assessing these risks you should also refer to the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, including the Company’s financial statements and related notes. Risks Related to the Banking Industry Changes in economic and political conditions could adversely affect the Company’s earnings, as the Company’s borrowers’ ability to repay loans and the value of the collateral securing the Company’s loans decline. The Company’s success depends, to a certain extent, upon economic and political conditions, local and national, as well as governmental monetary policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates, money supply and other factors beyond the Company’s control may adversely affect the Company’s asset quality, deposit levels and loan demand and, therefore, the Company’s earnings. Because the Company has a significant amount of real estate loans, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral. Adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of the Company’s borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on the Company’s earnings. In addition, substantially all of the Company’s loans are to individuals and businesses in the Company’s market area. Consequently, any economic decline in the Company’s market area could have an adverse impact on the Company’s earnings. 43 Changes in interest rates could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s earnings depend substantially on the Company’s interest rate spread, which is the difference between (i) the rates we earn on loans, securities and other earning assets, and (ii) the interest rates we pay on deposits and other borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. As market interest rates rise, we will have competitive pressures to increase the rates we pay on deposits, which may result in a decrease of the Company’s net interest income. Conversely, if interest rates fall, yields on loans and investments may fall. Because a significant portion of the Company’s deposit portfolio is in non-interest bearing accounts, such a change in rates would likely result in a decrease in the Company’s net interest income. For additional information, see Item 7A, herein. The Company operates in a highly regulated environment, and changes in laws and regulations to which we are subject may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. MetaBank and MetaBank WC (collectively, the “Banks”) and the Company operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision (“OTS”), the State of Iowa, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”), and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”). See “Business – Regulation” herein. Applicable laws and regulations may change, and there is no assurance that such changes will not adversely affect the Company’s business. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution may engage, including the activities of MetaBank’s Meta Payment Systems Division, and are intended primarily for the protection of the Banks and their depositors. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including but not limited to the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution’s allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of restrictions on activities, regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, including but not limited to changes in the regulations governing savings banks, could have a material impact on the bank and the Company’s operations. Changes in technology could be costly. The banking industry is undergoing technological innovation at a fast pace. To keep up with its competition, the Company needs to stay abreast of innovations and evaluate those technologies that will enable it to compete on a cost-effective basis. This is especially true with respect to MetaBank’s Meta Payment Systems Division. The cost of such technology, including personnel, can be high in both absolute and relative terms. There can be no assurance, given the fast pace of change and innovation, that the Company’s technology, either purchased or developed internally, will meet or continue to meet the needs of the Company. Risks Related to the Company’s Business The Company operates in an extremely competitive market, and the Company’s business will suffer if it is unable to compete effectively. In the Company’s market area, the Banks encounter significant competition from other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market mutual funds and 44 other financial intermediaries. Many of the Banks’ competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits and may offer services that the Bank does not or cannot provide. The Company’s profitability depends upon the Company’s continued ability to compete successfully in the Company’s market area. The Meta Payment Systems Division operates on a national scale against competitors with substantially greater resources and limited barriers to entry. The Division’s success depends upon its ability to compete in such an environment. The loss of key members of the Company’s senior management team could adversely affect the Company’s business. We believe that the Company’s success depends largely on the efforts and abilities of the Company’s senior management. Their experience and industry contacts significantly benefit us. The competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry is intense, and the loss of any of the Company’s key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company’s loan portfolio includes loans with a higher risk of loss. The Banks originate commercial mortgage loans, commercial loans, consumer loans, agricultural mortgage loans, agricultural loans and residential mortgage loans primarily within the Company’s market areas. Commercial mortgage, commercial, and consumer loans may expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans may not be sold as easily as residential real estate. These loans also have greater credit risk than residential real estate for the following reasons: • Commercial Mortgage Loans. Repayment is dependent upon income being generated in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. • Commercial Loans. Repayment is dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower’s business • Consumer Loans. Consumer loans (such as personal lines of credit) are collateralized, if at all, with assets that may not provide an adequate source of payment of the loan due to depreciation, damage, or loss. • Agricultural Loans. Repayment is dependent upon the successful operation of the business, which are greatly dependent on many things outside the control of either the Banks or the borrowers. These factor include weather, commodity prices, and interest rates among others. 45 If the Company’s actual loan losses exceed the Company’s allowance for loan losses, the Company’s net income will decrease. The Company makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of the Company’s loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of the Company’s borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of the Company’s loans. Despite the Company’s underwriting and monitoring practices, the Company’s loan customers may not repay their loans according to their terms, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. The Company may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on its operating results. Because the Company must use assumptions regarding individual loans and the economy, the current allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and increases in the allowance may be necessary. The Company may need to significantly increase the Company’s provision for losses on loans if one or more of the Company’s larger loans or credit relationships becomes delinquent or if we continue to expand the Company’s commercial real estate and commercial lending. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review the Company’s allowance for loan losses and may require the Company to increase the Company’s provision for loan losses or recognize loan charge-offs. Material additions to the Company’s allowance would materially decrease the Company’s net income. The Company cannot assure you that its monitoring procedures and policies will reduce certain lending risks or that the Company’s allowance for loan losses will be adequate to cover actual losses. If the Company forecloses on and takes ownership of real estate collateral property,it may be subject to the increased costs associated with the ownership of real property, resulting in reduced revenues. The Company may have to foreclose on collateral property to protect its investment and may thereafter own and operate such property. In such case the Company will be exposed to the risks inherent in the ownership of real estate. The amount that the Company, as a mortgagee, may realize after a default is dependent upon factors outside of the Company’s control, including, but not limited to: (i) general or local economic conditions; (ii) neighborhood values; (iii) interest rates; (iv) real estate tax rates; (v) operating expenses of the mortgaged properties; (vi) supply of and demand for rental units or properties; (vii) ability to obtain and maintain adequate occupancy of the properties; (viii) zoning laws; (ix) governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies; and (x) acts of God. Certain expenditures associated with the ownership of real estate, principally real estate taxes and maintenance costs, may adversely affect the income from the real estate. Therefore, the cost of operating a real property may exceed the rental income earned from such property, and the Company may have to advance funds in order to protect the Company’s investment, or may be required to dispose of the real property at a loss. The foregoing expenditures and costs could adversely affect the Company’s ability to generate revenues, resulting in reduced levels of profitability. Environmental liability associated with commercial lending could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In the course of the Company’s business, it may acquire, through foreclosure, commercial properties securing loans that are in default. There is a risk that hazardous substances could be discovered on those properties. In this event, the Company could be required to remove the substances from and remediate the properties at its own cost and expense. The cost of removal and environmental remediation could be substantial. The Company may not have adequate remedies against the owners of the properties or other responsible parties and could find it difficult or impossible to sell the affected properties. These 46 events could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and operating results. If the Company fails to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, it may not be able to accurately report the Company’s financial results or prevent fraud, and, as a result, investors and depositors could lose confidence in the Company’s financial reporting, which could adversely affect the Company’s business, the trading price of the Company’s stock and the Company’s ability to attract additional deposits. Unless it further delays or curtails its proposed rule, beginning with the Company’s annual report for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2007, the Company will have to include in its annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”) a report of the Company’s management regarding internal control over financial reporting. As a result, and although it is unclear whether, or to what extent, smaller companies will be exempted from its requirements, we recently have begun to document and evaluate the Company’s internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”) and Commission rules and regulations, which require an annual management report on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, including, among other matters, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and an attestation report by the Company’s independent auditors addressing these assessments. Accordingly, management has retained outside consultants to assist the Company in (i) assessing and documenting the adequacy of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, (ii) improving control processes, where appropriate, and (iii) verifying through testing that controls are functioning as documented. If the Company fails to identify and correct any significant deficiencies in the design or operating effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting or fails to prevent fraud, current and potential stockholders and depositors could lose confidence in the Company’s financial reporting, which could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, the trading price of the Company’s stock, and the Company’s ability to attract additional deposits. A breach of information security or compliance breach by one of the Company’s agents or vendors could negatively affect the Company’s reputation and business. The Banks, including the Meta Payment Systems Division of MetaBank, depend on data processing, communication and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks and over the internet. The Company cannot be certain all of its systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack, despite safeguards it has installed. Additionally, the Company relies on and does business with a variety of third-party service providers, agents and vendors with respect to the Company’s business, data and communications needs. If information security is breached, or one of the Company’s agents or vendors breaches compliance procedures, information could be lost or misappropriated, resulting in financial loss or costs to the Company or damages to others. These costs or losses could materially exceed the Company’s amount of insurance coverage, if any, which would adversely affect the Company’s business. Risks Related to the Company’s Stock The Company’s common stock is thinly traded, and thus your ability to sell shares or purchase additional shares of the Company’s common stock will be limited, and the market price at any time may not reflect true value. 47 Your ability to sell shares of the Company’s common stock or purchase additional shares largely depends upon the existence of an active market for the common stock. The Company’s common stock is quoted on NASDAQ Stock Market, but the volume of trades on any given day is light, and you may be unable to find a buyer for shares you wish to sell or a seller of additional shares you wish to purchase. In addition, a fair valuation of the purchase or sales price of a share of common stock also depends upon active trading, and thus the price you receive for a thinly traded stock, such as the Company’s common stock, may not reflect its true value. Future sales or additional issuances of the Company’s capital stock may depress prices of shares of the Company’s common stock or otherwise dilute the book value of shares then outstanding. Sales of a substantial amount of the Company’s capital stock in the public market or the issuance of a significant number of shares could adversely affect the market price for shares of the Company’s common stock. As of September 30, 2006, the Company was authorized to issue up to 5,200,000 shares of common stock, of which 2,534,367 shares were outstanding, and 423,632 shares were held as treasury stock. The Company was also authorized to issue up to 800,000 shares of preferred stock, none of which is outstanding or reserved for issuance. Accordingly, and although it has no plans to do so, without further stockholder approval, the Company may issue up to 2,242,001 additional shares of common stock and up to 800,000 shares of preferred stock, which obviously may affect the market price for shares of the Company’s common stock. The price of the Company’s common stock may be volatile, which may result in losses for investors. The market price for shares of the Company’s common stock has been volatile in the past, and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future. These factors include: • announcements of developments related to the Company’s business, • fluctuations in the Company’s results of operations, • sales of substantial amounts of the Company’s securities into the marketplace, • general conditions in the Company’s banking niche or the worldwide economy, • a shortfall in revenues or earnings compared to securities analysts’ expectations, • lack of an active trading market for the common stock, • changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections, and • the Company’s announcement of new acquisitions or other projects. The market price of the Company’s common stock may fluctuate significantly in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to the Company’s performance. General market price declines or market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of the Company’s common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. 48 Federal regulations may inhibit a takeover, prevent a transaction you may favor or limit the Company’s growth opportunities, which could cause the market price of the Company’s common stock to decline. Certain provisions of the Company’s charter documents and federal regulations could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of the company. In addition, the Company must obtain approval from regulatory authorities before it can acquire control of any other company. The Company may not be able to pay dividends in the future in accordance with past practice. The Company pays a quarterly dividend to stockholders. The payment of dividends is subject to legal and regulatory restrictions. Any payment of dividends in the future will depend, in large part, on the Bank’s earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors considered relevant by the Company’s Board of Directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 