Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results include those described below as well as other risks and factors identified from time to time in our SEC filings. The Company’s business could be harmed by any of these risks, as well as other risks that we have not identified. The trading price of the Company’s common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, including the Company’s financial statements and related notes. 52 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Industry and Business Failure to generate sufficient capital to support our anticipated growth could adversely affect our earnings and prospects. The Company has recently experienced considerable growth, having increased its assets from $1.7 billion at September 30, 2013 to $2.5 billion at September 30, 2015. Funded primarily by growth of low-interest-bearing deposits, the proceeds thereof have been invested primarily in loans, municipal bonds, mortgage-backed securities (“MBS”) and investment securities available for sale. The Company’s asset growth, if continued as expected, will generate a need for higher levels of capital which management believes may not be met through earnings retention alone. In that respect, in March 2015, the Company announced the successful completion of the sale of 740,654 common shares under the “at-the-market” equity offering announced on December 17, 2014, and in September 2015, the Company privately placed 535,000 shares of common stock to several institutional investors. All of these stock sales qualify as Tier 1 capital for regulatory purposes. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company will be able to continue to access sources of capital, private or public. Failure to remain well-capitalized, or to attain potentially even higher levels of capitalization that are or will be required in the future under regulatory initiatives mandated by Congress, our regulatory agencies or under the Basel accords, could adversely affect the Company’s earnings and prospects. We may have difficulty managing our growth which may divert resources and limit our ability to expand our operations successfully. As described above, we have experienced significant growth in the amount of our assets; this is also the case with the level of our deposits. Our future profitability will depend in part on our continued ability to grow in both these categories; however, we may not be able to sustain our historical growth rate or be able to grow at all. In addition, our future success will depend on competitive factors and on the ability of our senior management to continue to maintain a robust system of internal controls and procedures and manage a growing number of customer relationships. We may not be able to implement changes or improvements to these internal controls and procedures in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. Consequently, continued growth, if achieved, may place a strain on our operational infrastructure, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our loan portfolio has grown substantially, and our underwriting practices may not prevent future losses in our loan portfolio. Over the last fiscal year, our loan portfolio has grown substantially with new loan originations. Our underwriting practices are designed to mitigate risk by adhering to specific loan parameters. Components of our underwriting program include an analysis of the borrower and their creditworthiness, a financial statement review, and, if applicable, cash flow projections and a valuation of collateral. While the Company believes its asset quality to be good in comparison to most banking institutions, we may incur losses in our loan portfolio, especially the new portions thereof, if our underwriting criteria fail to identify credit risks. It is also possible that losses will exceed the amounts the Bank has set aside for loss reserves and result in reduced interest income and increased provision for loan losses, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 53 Table of Contents Our lending operations are concentrated in Iowa and South Dakota. Our lending activities are largely based in Iowa and South Dakota. As a result, our financial performance depends to a great degree on the economic conditions in these areas. If local economic conditions worsen it could cause us to experience an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans along with a reduction in the value of the collateral securing such loans, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Economic and market conditions have adversely affected our industry and regulatory costs have increased. Although economic trends have improved over the last few fiscal years, general economic trends, low growth and reduced availability of commercial credit have negatively impacted the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit in general. While the situation has improved somewhat over the last two fiscal years, this has led to increased commercial and consumer deficiencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: · We face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities; · Customer demand for loans secured by real estate could be reduced due to weaker economic conditions, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or an increase in interest rates; · The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions, and whether economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. The level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect the accuracy of our estimates which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process. Further, a new method of determining loan loss allowances, expected to be implemented in the future, could decrease our profitability. · The value of the portfolio of investment securities that we hold, and which constitute a large percentage of our assets, may be adversely affected; and · If we experience financial setbacks or other regulatory action in the future, we may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC insurance premiums than we currently pay due, in part, to our significant level of brokered deposits. See “– Regulation.” The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act is still unknown. While regulatory agencies have made considerable progress in implementing the Dodd-Frank Act, the full compliance burden and impact on our operations and profitability are still not fully known. Hundreds of new federal regulations, studies and reports were required under the Dodd-Frank Act and not all of them have been finalized; some rules and policies will be further developing for months and years to come. Based on the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that have already been implemented as well as anticipated regulations, it is highly likely that banks and thrifts as well as their holding companies will be subject to significantly increased regulation and compliance obligations that expose us to higher costs as well as noncompliance risk and consequences. 54 Table of Contents The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is reshaping the consumer financial laws through rulemaking and enforcement of prohibitions against unfair, deceptive or abusive practices, which may directly impact the business operations of depository institutions offering consumer financial products or services, including the Bank. The Bureau has broad rulemaking authority to administer and carry out the purposes and objectives of “federal consumer financial laws, and to prevent evasions thereof” with respect to all financial institutions that offer financial products and services to consumers. The Bureau is also authorized to prescribe rules, applicable to any covered person or service provider, identifying and prohibiting acts or practices that are “unfair, deceptive, or abusive” in connection with any transaction with a consumer for a consumer financial product or service, or the offering of a consumer financial product or service (“UDAAP authority”). The term “abusive” is new and developing and because Bureau officials have indicated that compliance will be achieved through enforcement actions rather than the issuance of regulations, we cannot predict to what extent the Bureau’s future actions will have on the banking industry or the Company. Notwithstanding that insured depository institutions with assets of $10 billion or less (such as the Bank) will continue to be supervised and examined by their primary federal regulators, the full reach and impact of the Bureau’s broad new rulemaking powers and UDAAP authority on the operations of financial institutions offering consumer financial products or services are currently unknown. In addition to taking many enforcement actions and promulgating a proposed regulation covering prepaid payments, described below, the Bureau finalized its ability to repay (“ATR”) rule as well as its qualified mortgage rule in January 2013. The ATR rule applies to residential mortgage loan applications received after January 10, 2014. The scope of the rule specifically applies to loans securing one-to-four unit dwellings and includes purchases, refinances and home equity loans for principal or second homes. Under the ATR rules, a lender may not make a residential mortgage loan unless the lender makes a reasonable and good faith determination that is based on verified, documented information at or before consummation that the borrower has a reasonable ability to repay. The eight underwriting factors that must be considered and verified include the following: (1) income and assets: (2) employment status; (3) monthly payment of loan; (4) monthly payment of any simultaneous loan secured by the same property; (5) monthly payment for other mortgage-related obligations like property taxes and insurance; (6) current debt obligations; (7) monthly debt to income ratio; and (8) credit history (although eight factors are delineated, the ATR rule does not dictate that a lender follow a particular underwriting model). Liability for violations of the ATR rule include actual damages, statutory damages, court costs and attorneys’ fees. Additionally, the Bureau published regulations required by the Dodd-Frank Act related to “qualified mortgages,” which are mortgages for which there is a presumption that the lender has satisfied the ATR rules. Pursuant to Dodd-Frank, qualified mortgages (“QMs”) must have certain product-feature prerequisites and affordability underwriting requirements. Generally, to meet the QM test, the lender must calculate the monthly payments based on the highest payment that will apply in the first five years and the consumer must have a total debt-to-income ratio that is less than or equal to 43%. The QM rule provides a safe harbor for lenders that make loans that satisfy the definition of a QM and are not higher priced. With respect to higher-priced mortgage loans, there is a rebuttable presumption of compliance available to the lender with respect to compliance with the ATR rule. With respect to final regulations that affect insured depository institutions such as the Bank, the Bureau also issued a final rule related to international remittances, which covers entities that provide at least 100 remittance transfers per calendar year. As such, the Bank became subject to the rule. The Bank has implemented a compliance solution. 55 Table of Contents Our most recent CRA rating was “Satisfactory.” A less than “Satisfactory” CRA rating could have a negative effect on the OCC’s review of certain banking applications. Under the CRA, the Bank is evaluated periodically by its primary federal banking regulator to determine if it is meeting its continuing and affirmative obligation consistent with its safe and sound operation to help meet the credit needs of its entire community, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. In the Bank’s most recent CRA examination dated October 16, 2013, the Bank received an overall rating of “Satisfactory.” If the Bank were to receive a future CRA rating of less than “Satisfactory,” the CRA requires the OCC to take such rating into account in considering an application for any of the following: (i) the establishment of a domestic branch; (ii) the relocation of its main office or of a branch; (iii) the merger or consolidation with or acquisition of assets or assumption of liabilities of an insured depository institution; or (iv) the conversion of the Bank to a national charter. Legislative and regulatory initiatives taken to date may not achieve their intended objective; Capital ratios. Legislative and regulatory initiatives taken to date by Congress and the federal banking regulators to address financial regulatory reform may not achieve their intended objectives, thereby requiring additional legislation or regulation of the financial services industry. Under the Basel III Capital Rule, minimum requirements have increased for both the quantity and quality of capital held by banking organizations. The Basel III Capital Rule includes a new minimum ratio of Common Equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of 4.5% and a Common Equity Tier 1 capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of risk-weighted assets. The rule also imposes a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of 6% and includes a minimum leverage ratio of 4% for all banking organizations. The rule also emphasizes Common Equity Tier 1 capital and implements strict eligibility criteria for regulatory capital instruments. The total capital ratio remains at 8% and the general PCA framework remains but incorporates these increased minimum requirements. The Basel III phase-in period for smaller, less complex banking organizations like the Company and the Bank began in January 2015. The phase-in will gradually increase capital requirements for the Company and the Bank, making compliance and future growth more difficult to achieve. Should the Company or the Bank not meet the requirements of the Basel III Capital Rules, the Company and the Bank would be subject to adverse regulatory action by our regulators, which action could result in material adverse consequences for us, the Bank, and our shareholders. We have a concentration of our assets in mortgage-backed securities and municipal securities. As of September 30, 2015, approximately 25.4% of the Bank’s assets were invested in mortgage‑backed securities, compared to 35.4% at September 30, 2014. The Company’s mortgage-backed and related securities portfolio consists primarily of securities issued by U.S. Government instrumentalities, including those of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac which are in conservatorship. The Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac certificates are modified pass-through mortgage-backed securities that represent undivided interests in underlying pools of fixed-rate, or certain types of adjustable-rate, predominantly single-family and, to a lesser extent, multi-family residential mortgages issued by these U.S. Government instrumentalities. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac generally provide the certificate holder a guarantee of timely payments of interest, whether or not collected. Privately issued mortgage pass‑through certificates generally provide no guarantee as to timely payment of interest or principal, and reliance is placed on the creditworthiness of the issuer. 56 Table of Contents Mortgage-backed securities generally increase the quality of the Company’s assets by virtue of the insurance or guarantees that back them, are more liquid than individual mortgage loans and may be used to collateralize borrowings or other obligations of the Company. The prepayment risk associated with mortgage-backed securities is monitored periodically, and prepayment rate assumptions adjusted as appropriate to update the Company’s mortgage-backed securities accounting and asset/liability reports. Nonetheless, while mortgage-backed securities carry a reduced credit risk as compared to whole loans, such securities remain subject to some credit risk, and to the risk that a fluctuating interest rate environment, along with other factors such as the geographic distribution of the underlying mortgage loans, as well as other risks, may alter the prepayment rate of such mortgage loans and so affect both the prepayment speed, and value, of such securities. As of September 30, 2015, approximately 35.1% of the Bank’s assets were invested in municipal securities, compared to approximately 28.3% at September 30, 2014. As of September 30, 2015, over 34% of the 35.1% of the Bank’s assets invested in municipal securities were non-bank qualified obligations. These bonds are issued in larger denominations than bank qualified obligations, which allows for the purchase of larger blocks. These larger blocks of municipal bonds are typically issued in larger denominations by well-known issuers with reputable reporting and in turn, tend to be more liquid, which helps reduce price risk. Furthermore, approximately 2% of these municipal securities are backed by and convertible into Ginnie Mae mortgage backed security pools upon the Company’s request. Lastly, the largest exposure to any one direct municipality, when excluding municipal bonds convertible to Ginnie Mae mortgage backed securities, represented approximately 0.3% of the Bank’s assets as of September 30, 2015. The Company believes these municipal securities generally increase the quality of the Bank’s assets by virtue of the high credit quality of the Bank’s municipal holdings and the low historical loss rates and elevated recovery rates associated with these types of securities with corresponding credit quality. Nonetheless, while these municipal securities carry a reduced credit risk as compared to whole loans, such securities remain subject to the risk that a fluctuating interest rate environment may alter the value of the securities. We recorded other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”) charges in our trust preferred securities (“TRUPS”) portfolio in the past, and we could record additional losses in the future. We determine the fair value of our investment securities based on GAAP and three levels of informational inputs that may be used to measure fair value. The price at which a security may be sold in a market transaction could be significantly lower than the quoted market price for the security, particularly if the quoted market price is based on infrequent trading history, the market for the security is illiquid or a significant amount of securities are being sold. In fiscal 2015, 2014 and 2013, there were no other‑than-temporary impairments recorded. The valuation of our TRUPS, the total of which was $12.7 million at September 30, 2015, will continue to be influenced by external market and other factors, including implementation of SEC and Financial Accounting Standards Board guidance on fair value accounting, the financial condition of specific issuers’ deferral and default rates of specific issuer financial institutions, rating agency actions and the prices at which observable market transactions occur. If we are required to record additional OTTI charges on our TRUPS portfolio, we could experience potentially significant earnings losses as well as a material adverse impact on our capital position. 57 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Banking Industry Our reputation and business could be damaged by negative publicity. Reputational risk, or the risk to our business, earnings and capital from negative publicity, is inherent in our business. Negative publicity can result from actual or alleged conduct in a number of areas, including legal and regulatory compliance, lending practices, corporate governance, litigation, inadequate protection of customer data, ethical behavior of our employees and from actions taken by regulators and others as a result of that conduct. Damage to our reputation could impact our ability to attract new and maintain existing loan and deposit customers, employees and business relationships, and, particularly with respect to our MPS division, could result in the imposition of new regulatory requirements, operational restrictions, enhanced supervision and/or civil money penalties. Such damage could also adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital. If any of these measures should be imposed in the future, they could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, data processing system failures, errors, breaches and customer or employee fraud. There have been a number of publicized cases involving errors, fraud or other misconduct by employees of financial services firms in recent years. Misconduct by our employees could include hiding unauthorized activities from us, improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of our customers or improper use of confidential information. Employee fraud, errors and employee and customer misconduct could subject us to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation. It is not always possible to prevent employee errors and misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Employee errors could also subject us to civil claims for negligence. Although we maintain a system of internal controls and procedures designed to reduce the risk of loss from employee or customer fraud or misconduct and employee errors as well as insurance coverage to mitigate against operational risks, including data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud, these internal controls may fail to prevent or detect such an occurrence, or such an occurrence may not be insured or exceed applicable insurance limits. In addition, there have also been a number of cases where financial institutions have been the victim of fraud related to unauthorized wire and automated clearinghouse transactions. The facts and circumstances of each case vary but generally involve criminals posing as customers (i.e., stealing bank customers’ identities) to transfer funds out of the institution quickly in an effort to place the funds beyond recovery prior to detection. Although we have policies and procedures in place to verify the authenticity of our customers and prevent identity theft, we can provide no assurances that these policies and procedures will prevent all fraudulent transfers. In addition, although we have safeguards in place, it is possible that our computer systems could be infiltrated by hackers or other intruders. We can provide no assurances that these safeguards will prevent all unauthorized infiltrations or breaches. Identity theft, successful unauthorized intrusions and similar unauthorized conduct could result in reputational damage and financial losses to the Company. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” 58 Table of Contents Changes in economic and political conditions could adversely affect the Company’s earnings, as the Company’s borrowers’ ability to repay loans and the value of the collateral securing the Company’s loans decline. The Company’s success depends, to a certain extent, upon economic and political conditions, local and national, as well as governmental monetary policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates, money supply and other factors beyond the Company’s control may adversely affect the Company’s asset quality, deposit levels, products and loan demand and, therefore, the Company’s earnings. Because the Company has a significant amount of real estate loans, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral. Among other things, adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of the Company’s borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on the Company’s earnings. In addition, the vast majority of the Company’s loans are to individuals and businesses in the Company’s market area. Consequently, any economic decline in the Company’s market area could have an adverse impact on the Company’s earnings. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s earnings depend substantially on the Company’s interest rate spread, which is the difference between (i) the rates we earn on loans, securities and other earning assets, and (ii) the interest rates we pay on deposits and other borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. As market interest rates rise, we will have competitive pressures to increase the rates we pay on deposits, especially at our Retail Bank, which may result in a decrease of the Company’s net interest income. Conversely, if interest rates fall, yields on loans and investments may fall. Although the Bank continues to monitor its interest rate risk exposure and has undertaken additional analyses and implemented additional controls to improve its core earnings from interest income, the Bank can provide no assurance that its efforts will appropriately protect the Bank in the future from interest rate risk exposure. For additional information, see Part II, Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” The Company operates in a highly regulated environment, and changes in laws and regulations to which we are subject may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company and the Bank operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC and the Federal Reserve. In addition, the Bank is subject to regulation by the FDIC and the Bureau. See Item 1 “Business – Regulation” herein. Applicable laws and regulations may change and the enforcement of existing laws and regulations may vary when actions are evaluated by these regulators, and there is no assurance that such changes will not adversely affect the Company’s business. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including but not limited to the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution’s allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of restrictions on activities, regulatory policy, regulations or legislation, could have a material impact on the Company’s operations. It is unknown at this time to what extent new legislation will be passed into law or pending or new regulatory proposals will be adopted, or the effect that such passage or adoption will have on the banking industry or the Company. 59 Table of Contents Changes in technology could be costly. The banking industry is undergoing technological innovation at a fast pace. To keep up with its competition, the Company needs to stay abreast of innovations and evaluate those technologies that will enable it to compete on a cost-effective basis. This is especially true with respect to MPS. The cost of such technology, including personnel, has been high in both absolute and relative terms and additional funds continue to be used to enhance existing management information systems. There can be no assurance, given the fast pace of change and innovation, that the Company’s technology, either purchased or developed internally, will meet the needs of the Company. Risks Related to the Company’s Business The OCC and Federal Reserve are our primary banking regulators and we may not be able to comply with applicable banking regulations to their satisfaction. Our primary regulators have broad discretionary powers to enforce banking laws and regulations and may seek to take informal or formal supervisory action if they deem such actions are necessary or required. If imposed in the future, corrective steps could result in additional regulatory requirements, operational restrictions, a consent order, enhanced supervision and/or civil money penalties. If imposed, additional resources, both economic and in terms of personnel, would be expended by the Company and the Bank and such regulatory actions could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Bank has been named as a defendant in several class action lawsuits, the adverse resolution of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Bank has been named as a defendant, along with other defendants, in several class action lawsuits filed in several federal district courts in October and November 2015. See Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” An adverse resolution of these matters, or other litigation could result in substantial damages, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Contracts with third parties, some of which are material to the Company, may not be renewed, may be renegotiated on terms that are not as favorable, may not be fulfilled or could be subject to modification or cancellation by regulatory authorities. The Bank has entered into numerous contracts with third parties with respect to the operations of its business. In some instances, the third parties provide services to the Bank and MPS; in other instances, the Bank and MPS provide products and services to such third parties. Were such agreements not to be renewed by the third party or were such agreements to be renewed on terms less favorable, such actions could have an adverse material impact on the Bank, its MPS division and, ultimately, the Company. Similarly, were one of these parties unable to meet their obligations to us for any reason (including but not limited to bankruptcy, computer or other technological interruptions or failures, personnel loss or acts of God), we may need to seek alternative service providers. We may not be able to secure alternate service providers, and, even if we do, the terms with such alternate providers may not be as favorable as those currently in place. In addition, were we to lose any of our important third-service providers, it could cause a material disruption in our own ability to service our customers, which also could have an adverse material impact on the Bank, its MPS division and, ultimately, the Company. Moreover, were the disruptions in our ability to provide services significant, this could negatively affect the perception of our business, which could result in a loss of confidence and other adverse effects on our business. 60 Table of Contents Additionally, our agreements with third-party vendors could come under scrutiny by our regulators. If a regulator should raise an issue with, or object to, any term or provision in such agreement or any action taken by such third party vis-à-vis the Bank’s operations or customers, this could result in a material adverse effect to the Company including, but not limited to, the imposition of fines and/or penalties and the termination of such agreement. The Company operates in an extremely competitive market, and the Company’s business will suffer if it is unable to compete effectively. The Company encounters significant competition in the Company’s market area from other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market mutual funds and other financial intermediaries. Many of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits and may offer services that the Company does not or cannot provide. The Company’s profitability depends upon the Company’s continued ability to compete successfully in the Company’s market area. MPS operates on a national scale against competitors with substantially greater resources. The success of MPS depends upon the Company’s, the Bank’s and the MPS division’s ability to compete in such an environment. In 2015, the FDIC twice- issued guidance in the form of Frequently Asked Questions with respect to brokered deposits, and in response thereto, the Bank classified a substantial portion of its deposit liabilities as brokered deposits, effective for the quarter ended December 31, 2014. While the Bank is “well-capitalized” under existing bank regulations, failure to maintain this designation could have a serious material adverse impact on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Further, depending on our financial condition in the future, the FDIC could impose a surcharge between zero and ten basis points on our brokered deposits. Additionally, if we are required to amend previous call reports with respect to our level of brokered deposits, or are further required to pay higher assessments with respect to these deposits, such payments could be significant and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. On January 5, 2015, the FDIC published industry guidance in the form of Frequently Asked Questions (“FAQs”) with respect to, among other things, the categorization of deposit liabilities as “brokered” deposits. This guidance was later supplemented on November 13, 2015, and is now described as proposed guidance with a solicitation for industry comment. Following the Company’s initial review of the initial FAQs, the Bank classified $1.3 billion, or 72%, of its deposit liabilities as brokered deposits effective for the quarter ended December 31, 2014. As of September 30, 2015, the Bank classified $1.1 billion, or 65.1%, of its deposit liabilities as brokered deposits. Due to the Bank’s status as a “well-capitalized” institution under the FDIC’s prompt corrective action regulations, and further with respect to the Bank’s financial condition in general, the Company does not at this time anticipate that the guidance will have a material adverse impact on its business operations or its ability to further grow deposits if adopted in its proposed form. However, should the Bank ever fail to be well-capitalized in the future as a result of not meeting the well-capitalized requirements or the imposition of an individual minimum capital requirement or similar formal requirement, then, notwithstanding that the Bank has capital in excess of the well-capitalized minimum requirements, the Bank would be prohibited, absent waiver from the FDIC, from utilizing brokered deposits (i.e., no insured depository institution that is deemed to be less than “well-capitalized” may accept, renew or rollover brokered deposits absent a waiver from the FDIC). In such event, unless the Bank were to receive a suitable waiver from the FDIC, such a result could produce serious material adverse consequences for the Bank with respect to liquidity and could also have serious material adverse effects on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Further, and in general, depending on the Bank’s condition in the future, the FDIC could increase the surcharge on our brokered deposits up to ten basis points. For the year ended September 30, 2015, the Company estimates that the additional surcharge attributable to the Bank’s brokered deposits was approximately $0.5 million, after tax. Under the recently proposed additional guidance issued on November 13, 2015, the Company does not plan to amend call reports filed prior to December 31, 2014. The Company will monitor any future clarifications, rulings and interpretations, including whether institutions would be expected by the FDIC to amend prior call reports. If we are required to amend previous call reports with respect to our level of brokered deposits, which the Company does not expect, or we are ever required to pay higher surcharge assessments with respect to these deposits, such payments could be material and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 61 Table of Contents We derive a significant percentage of our deposits, total assets and income from deposit accounts that we generate through MPS’ customer relationships, of which four are significant to our operations. We derive a significant percentage of our deposits, total assets and income from deposit accounts we generate through program manager relationships between third parties and MPS. Deposits related to our top four program managers (each, a significant program manager) totaled $723.0 million at September 30, 2015. We provide oversight and auditing of such third-party relationships and all such relationships must meet all internal and regulatory requirements. We may exit these relationships if such requirements are not met or if required to do so by our regulators. We perform liquidity reporting and planning daily and identify and monitor contingent sources of liquidity, such as National CDs, Fed Fund Lines or Public Fund CDs. If one of these significant program managers were to be terminated, it could materially reduce our deposits, assets and income. Similarly, if a significant program manager was not replaced, we may be required to seek higher-rate funding sources as compared to the existing program manager, and interest expense might increase. We may also be required to sell securities or other assets which would reduce revenues and potentially generate losses. Our business strategy is utilized by other institutions with which we compete. Several banking institutions have adopted business strategies that are similar to ours, particularly with respect to the MPS division. As a consequence, we have encountered competition in this area and anticipate that we will continue to do so in the future. This competition may increase our costs, reduce our revenues or revenue growth, or make it difficult for us to compete effectively in obtaining additional customer relationships. Acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. As part of our general growth strategy, we have expanded our business in part through acquisitions. Since December 2014, we have completed the acquisition of substantially all of the commercial loan portfolio and related assets of AFS/IBEX Financial Services, Inc., and the more recently completed acquisition of the assets of Fort Knox Financial Services Corporation and its subsidiary, Tax Products Services LLC, in September 2015. We may engage in additional acquisitions that we believe provide a strategic or geographic fit with our business. We cannot predict the number, size or timing of acquisitions. To the extent that we grow through acquisitions, we cannot assure that we will be able to adequately and profitably manage this growth. Acquiring other businesses will involve risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including: · increased and new regulatory and compliance requirements; · implementation or remediation of controls, procedures and policies at the acquired company; 62 Table of Contents · diversion of management time and focus from operation of our then-existing business to acquisition-integration challenges; · coordination of product, sales, marketing and program and systems management functions; · transition of the acquired company’s users and customers onto our systems; · retention of employees from the acquired company; · integration of employees from the acquired company into our organization; · integration of the acquired company’s accounting, information management, human resource and other administrative systems and operations with ours; · potential liability for activities of the acquired company prior to the acquisition, including violations of law, commercial disputes and tax and other known and unknown liabilities; and · potential increased litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company, including claims brought by terminated employees, customers, former stockholders or other third parties. If we are unable to successfully integrate an acquired business or technology, or otherwise address these difficulties and challenges or other problems encountered in connection with an acquisition, we might not realize the anticipated benefits of that acquisition, we might incur unanticipated liabilities or we might otherwise suffer harm to our business generally, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Unanticipated costs, delays, regulatory review and examination, or other operational or financial problems related to integrating the acquired company and business with our company, may result in the diversion of our management's attention from other business issues and opportunities. To integrate acquired businesses, we must implement our technology and compliance systems in the acquired operations and integrate and manage the personnel of the acquired operations. We also must effectively integrate the different cultures of acquired business organizations into our own in a way that aligns various interests and may need to enter new markets in which we have no or limited experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions. Failures or difficulties in integrating the operations of the businesses that we acquire, including their personnel, technology, compliance programs, financial systems, distribution and general business operations and procedures, marketing, promotion and other relationships, may affect our ability to grow and may result in us incurring asset impairment or restructuring charges. Furthermore, acquisitions and investments are often speculative in nature and the actual benefits we derive from them could be lower or take longer to materialize than we expect. To the extent we pay the consideration for any future acquisitions or investments in cash, it would reduce the amount of cash available to us for other purposes. Future acquisitions or investments could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses or impairment charges against goodwill on our balance sheet, any of which could harm our financial condition and negatively impact our stockholders. 63 Table of Contents An impairment charge of goodwill or other intangibles could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Because we have recently grown in part through acquisitions, goodwill and intangible assets are now a portion of our consolidated assets. Our net goodwill and intangible assets were $70.5 million as of September 30, 2015. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or U.S. GAAP, we are required to test the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets at least annually or sooner if events occur that indicate impairment could exist. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, including sustained decline in a reporting unit’s fair value, legal and regulatory factors, operating performance indicators, competition and other factors. U.S. GAAP requires us to assign and then test goodwill at the reporting unit level. If over a sustained period of time we experience a decrease in our stock price and market capitalization, which may serve as an estimate of the fair value of our reporting unit, this may be an indication of impairment. If the fair value of our reporting unit is less than its net book value, we may be required to record goodwill impairment charges in the future. In addition, if the revenue and cash flows generated from any of our other intangible assets is not sufficient to support its net book value, we may be required to record an impairment charge. The amount of any impairment charge could be significant and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations for the period in which the charge is taken. New lines of business or new products and services may subject us to additional risks. From time to time, we may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. Substantial risks and uncertainties are associated with developing and marketing new lines of business or new products or services, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed, and we may be required to invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as regulatory reception, compliance with regulations and guidance (such as the OCC’s guidance released in August 2015 related to the offering of tax refund-related products), competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could reduce our revenues and potentially generate losses. Existing insurance policies may not adequately protect the Company and its subsidiaries. Fidelity, business interruption, cybersecurity and property insurance policies are in place with respect to the operations of the Company. Should any event triggering such policies occur, however, it is possible that our policies would not fully reimburse us for the losses we could sustain due to deductible limits, policy limits, coverage limits or other factors. The loss of key members of the Company’s senior management team could adversely affect the Company’s business. We believe that the Company’s success depends largely on the efforts and abilities of the Company’s senior management. Their experience and industry contacts significantly benefit us. The competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry is intense, and the loss of any of the Company’s key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect the Company’s business. 64 Table of Contents The Company’s loan portfolio includes loans with a higher risk of loss. The Company originates commercial mortgage loans, commercial loans, consumer loans, agricultural real estate loans, agricultural loans and residential mortgage loans. Commercial mortgage, commercial, consumer, agricultural real estate and agricultural loans may expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans may not be sold as easily as residential real estate. These loans also have greater credit risk than residential real estate for the following reasons: · Commercial Mortgage Loans. Repayment is dependent upon income being generated in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. · Commercial Loans. Repayment is dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower’s business. · Consumer Loans. Consumer loans (such as personal lines of credit) are collateralized, if at all, with assets that may not provide an adequate source of payment of the loan due to depreciation, damage or loss. · Agricultural Loans. Repayment is dependent upon the successful operation of the business, which is greatly dependent on many things outside the control of either the Bank or the borrowers. These factors include weather, commodity prices and interest rates, among others. Commercial premium financing activity may result in increased exposure to credit risk and fraud. The Company acquired the commercial loan portfolio and related assets of AFS/IBEX Financial Services, Inc., and continues, through that platform, to serve businesses and insurance agencies nationwide with commercial insurance premium financing. The Company is reliant on insurance agents and brokers to produce these commercial loans, which are made to borrowers who borrow funds to pay premiums on property and casualty insurance policies. Typically the financing arrangement with the borrower provides for periodic payments to the lender to secure the insurance policy with an insurer, and that the lender is entitled to any unearned premium due from the insurer in the event of policy cancellation with any excess returned to the insured/borrower after the loan has been paid off. The financing arrangement typically includes a limited power of attorney to permit the lender to cancel the insurance policy in the event of default. Typically, premium finance loans are designed to amortize faster than the unearned premium that has been paid, either as a down payment, or periodically is earned, so that the value of the unearned premium exceeds the outstanding financed amount, providing collateral to the lender. If the borrower fails to pay on the premium finance loan, then the financed insurance policy must be cancelled to avoid losses with respect to unearned premiums. The Company must consider both the creditworthiness of the borrower, and the creditworthiness of the insurer (for the ability to return the unearned premium). There is also an operational risk of assuring that the insurance policy is cancelled on a timely basis to prevent unearned premium from dissipating once the policy can be cancelled. Further, the Company is not involved in the production of the loans, and is therefore exposed to the risk of fraud by producers. If the Company’s actual loan losses exceed the Company’s allowance for loan losses, the Company’s net income will decrease. The Company makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of the Company’s loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of the Company’s borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of the Company’s loans. Despite the Company’s underwriting and monitoring practices, the Company’s loan customers may not repay their loans according to their terms, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. The Company may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on its operating results. Because the Company must use assumptions regarding individual loans and the economy, the current allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and increases in the allowance may be necessary. The Company may need to significantly increase the Company’s provision for losses on loans if one or more of the Company’s larger loans or credit relationships becomes impaired or if we continue to expand the Company’s commercial real estate and commercial lending. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review the Company’s allowance for loan losses and may require the Company to increase the Company’s provision for loan losses or recognize loan charge-offs. Material additions to the Company’s allowance would materially decrease the Company’s net income. The Company cannot assure you that its monitoring procedures and policies will reduce certain lending risks or that the Company’s allowance for loan losses will be adequate to cover actual losses. 65 Table of Contents If the Company forecloses on and takes ownership of real estate collateral property, it may be subject to the increased costs associated with the ownership of real property, resulting in reduced revenues. The Company may have to foreclose on collateral property to protect its investment and may thereafter own and operate such property. In such case, the Company will be exposed to the risks inherent in the ownership of real estate. The amount that the Company, as a mortgagee, may realize after a default is dependent upon factors outside of the Company’s control, including, but not limited to: (i) general or local economic conditions; (ii) neighborhood values; (iii) interest rates; (iv) real estate tax rates; (v) operating expenses of the mortgaged properties; (vi) supply of and demand for rental units or properties; (vii) ability to obtain and maintain adequate occupancy of the properties; (viii) zoning laws; (ix) governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies; and (x) acts of God. Certain expenditures associated with the ownership of real estate, principally real estate taxes and maintenance costs, may adversely affect the income from the real estate. Therefore, the cost of operating a real property may exceed the rental income earned from such property, and the Company may have to advance funds in order to protect the Company’s investment, or may be required to dispose of the real property at a loss. The foregoing expenditures and costs could adversely affect the Company’s ability to generate revenues, resulting in reduced levels of profitability. Our agricultural loans are subject to factors beyond the Company’s control. The agricultural community is subject to commodity price fluctuations. Extended periods of low commodity prices, higher input costs or poor weather conditions could result in reduced profit margins, reducing demand for goods and services provided by agriculture-related businesses, which, in turn, could affect other businesses in the Company’s market area. Environmental liability associated with commercial lending could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In the course of the Company’s business, it may acquire, through foreclosure, commercial properties securing loans that are in default. There is a risk that hazardous substances could be discovered on those properties. In this event, the Company could be required to remove the substances from and remediate the properties at its own cost and expense. The cost of removal and environmental remediation could be substantial. The Company may not have adequate remedies against the owners of the properties or other responsible parties and could find it difficult or impossible to sell the affected properties. These events could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and operating results. 66 Table of Contents New products and services are expensive to implement and are closely scrutinized by the OCC. MPS operates in an environment that is reliant upon innovative products and services that complement and enhance existing product and service offerings. The investments we make in these new products and services are often expensive and we can never be certain that products or services will be acceptable to our regulators or will realize commercial success. In addition, the OCC has stated as recently as December 2014, that new products and services must be undertaken only after the appropriate controls are in place (which can often be time-consuming and expensive to implement). Our framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to us. We have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the types of risk to which we are subject, including liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, legal and compliance risk, and reputational risk, among others. However, as with any risk management framework, there are inherent limitations to our risk management strategies as there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that we have not appropriately anticipated or identified. For example, the 2008 financial and credit crisis and resulting regulatory reform highlighted both the importance and certain limitations of managing unanticipated risks. If our risk management framework proves ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A breach of information security or compliance breach by one of the Company’s agents or vendors could negatively affect the Company’s reputation and business. The Company depends on data processing, communication and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks and over the Internet. Despite safeguards, no system, including ours, is entirely free from vulnerability to attack. Additionally, the Company relies on and does business with a variety of third-party service providers, agents and vendors with respect to the Company’s business, data and communications needs. If information security is breached, or one of the Company’s agents or vendors breaches compliance procedures, information could be lost or misappropriated, resulting in financial loss or costs to the Company or damages to others. These costs or losses could materially exceed the Company’s amount of insurance coverage, if any, which would adversely affect the Company’s business. Other “high profile” data breaches in 2015 have raised interest in new legislation at both the federal and state level. To the extent additional requirements are imposed on the Bank as a result of such legislation, these costs could have an adverse impact on the Bank. Changes in accounting policies or accounting standards, or changes in how accounting standards are interpreted or applied, could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. Our accounting policies are fundamental to determining and understanding our financial results and condition. Some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets or liabilities and financial results. Any changes in our accounting policies could materially affect our financial statements. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. In addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards (such as the FASB, the SEC, banking regulators and our outside auditors) may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. Changes in financial accounting and reporting standards and changes in current interpretations may be beyond our control, can be difficult to predict and could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. We may be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively or apply an existing standard differently and retroactively, which may result in the Company being required to restate prior period financial statements in material amounts. 67 Table of Contents Our network of tax preparation partners is extensive but it may be difficult to manage and retain such marketing partners because of competitive market forces. As of the date of this filing, the Bank has a network of over 10,000 active electronic return originators (“EROs”) that utilize its services. Although each ERO undergoes an analysis of its operations prior to marketing the Bank’s products, it is possible that certain EROs will facilitate or engage in tax-related malfeasance that cannot be determined or predicted. In addition, it is possible that the EROs may choose to offer the tax-related products of other companies who provide products and services similar to the Bank’s for pricing or other competitive reasons. The effect of either of these events, were they to be realized in the future, could potentially result in material adverse consequences to the Company. Risks Related to the Company’s Stock The price of the Company’s common stock may be volatile, which may result in losses for investors. The market price for shares of the Company’s common stock has been volatile in the past, and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future. These factors include: · announcements of developments related to the Company’s business; · the initiation, pendency or outcome of litigation, regulatory reviews, inquiries and investigations, and any related adverse publicity; · fluctuations in the Company’s results of operations; · sales of substantial amounts of the Company’s securities into the marketplace; · general conditions in the Company’s banking niche or the worldwide economy; · a shortfall in revenues or earnings compared to securities analysts’ expectations; · lack of an active trading market for the common stock; · changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections; and · the Company’s announcement of new acquisitions or other projects. The market price of the Company’s common stock may fluctuate significantly in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to the Company’s performance. General market price declines or market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of the Company’s common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. An investment in Company common stock is not an insured deposit. Our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and is subject to market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you hold or acquire our common stock, it is possible that you may lose all or a portion of your investment. 68 Table of Contents The Company’s common stock is thinly traded, and thus your ability to sell shares or purchase additional shares of the Company’s common stock will be limited, and the market price at any time may not reflect true value. Your ability to sell shares of the Company’s common stock or purchase additional shares largely depends upon the existence of an active market for the common stock. The Company’s common stock is quoted on NASDAQ Global Market, but the volume of trades on any given day is relatively light, and you may be unable to find a buyer for shares you wish to sell or a seller of additional shares you wish to purchase. In addition, a fair valuation of the purchase or sales price of a share of common stock also depends upon active trading, and thus the price you receive for a relatively thinly traded stock, such as the Company’s common stock, may not reflect its true value. Future sales or additional issuances of the Company’s capital stock may depress prices of shares of the Company’s common stock or otherwise dilute the book value of shares then outstanding. Sales of a substantial amount of the Company’s capital stock in the public market or the issuance of a significant number of shares could adversely affect the market price for shares of the Company’s common stock. As of September 30, 2015, the Company was authorized to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 8,163,022 shares were outstanding, and 20,250 shares were held as treasury stock. The Company was also authorized to issue up to 3,000,000 shares of preferred stock, none of which is outstanding or reserved for issuance. Future sales or additional issuances of stock may affect the market price for shares of the Company’s common stock. Federal regulations may inhibit a takeover, prevent a transaction you may favor or limit the Company’s growth opportunities, which could cause the market price of the Company’s common stock to decline. Certain provisions of the Company’s charter documents and federal regulations could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of the Company. In addition, the Company must obtain approval from regulatory authorities before it can acquire control of any other company. The Company may not be able to pay dividends in the future in accordance with past practice. The Company pays a quarterly dividend to stockholders. The payment of dividends is subject to legal and regulatory restrictions. Any payment of dividends in the future will depend, in large part, on the Company’s earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, regulatory review and other factors considered relevant by the Company’s Board of Directors. ATM fraud is becoming both more sophisticated and more prevalent. Although the Bank has not been the subject of any widespread or concerted ATM attack, ATM fraud has shown a marked increase and threats to the network of entities that comprise ATM networks continue. As of the time of the printing of this report, it is estimated that losses from ATM skimming alone approach $1 billion globally. Although most ATM fraud continues to involve skimming (whereby a skimmer reads a debit card's encoded mag stripe and a camera records the PIN that is entered by a customer), new frauds including those perpetrated by Wi-Fi scanners and the cracking of encryption software are being perpetrated against global banks and their customers. The Bank continues to monitor these developments and has a robust program in place to monitor for debit and credit card fraud. Even with such policies and procedures in place, however, there can be no assurance that the Bank, its customers or the ATM networks in which it participates will not be the victims of an ATM-based crime. 69 Table of Contents Risks Related to Meta Payment Systems®, a division of the Bank MPS’ products and services are highly regulated financial products subject to extensive supervision and regulation and are costly to maintain. The products and services offered by MPS are highly regulated by federal banking agencies, the Bureau and some state regulators. Some of the laws and related regulations affecting its operations include consumer protection laws, escheat laws, privacy laws, anti-money laundering laws and data protection laws. Compliance with the relevant legal paradigm in which the division operates is costly and requires significant personnel resources, as well as extensive contacts with outside lawyers and consultants hired by MPS to stay abreast of the applicable regulatory schemes. We have an understanding with the OCC, our primary regulator, that requires us to obtain approval for material credit or credit‑related tax products. The CFPB’s proposed rule related to prepaid accounts will affect the Bank’s offering of prepaid cards. As described above, the CFPB issued a proposed rule on November 14, 2014, that, when made final, will likely expand regulatory requirements applicable to prepaid products (card-based, as well as prepaid products that are offered in other technological forms) marketed to and used by consumers. The Bank believes that a number of the practices to be required if the proposal as written is substantially adopted in final form will cause changes to the overdraft feature of a prepaid product offered by one of its business partners, and likely will add to the Bank’s cost of offering prepaid products in general. Although the Final Rule may be issued in early 2016 and implementation will occur sometime thereafter, perhaps in 2017, the Bank intends to undertake a gap analysis to assist it in determining those aspects of its prepaid program that may need to be adjusted to achieve compliance. No assurance can be given that the final rule, if passed, will not contain stricter provisions than the proposal, or that the Bank’s profitability with respect to prepaid offerings will not be adversely affected. In addition to the CFPB’s proposal related to prepaid regulation (discussed above), it is possible that new legislation or more stringent focus by banking agencies could further restrict MPS’ current operations or change the regulatory environment in which the division’s customers operate. Although it is possible that some legislation under consideration could have either a positive or de minimis impact on its operations and profitability, it is also possible that any new legislation affecting the operations of MPS or its customers, some of which are also regulated entities, would have a negative impact on the conduct of the relevant business. There is no way to quantify the impact that such changes could have on the profitability or operations of MPS at this time given the unpredictable nature of the risk. In addition to the relevant legal paradigm set forth above, it should also be noted that there has been concern within the bank regulatory environment over the use of credit and, in particular, prepaid cards as a means by which to illegally launder and move money. The U.S. Treasury’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network issued rules related to providers of “prepaid access” which have left certain issues unresolved related to its regulatory requirements. It is likely that any changes to the regulatory environment related to the offering of prepaid cards will increase the Bank’s compliance and operational costs. Although the Bank will continue to work with its regulators to provide information about its operations as well as the state of the prepaid card industry, we believe such concerns in general will continue for the foreseeable future for the entire banking industry, with a continued emphasis on heightened compliance expectations, resulting in higher compliance costs. See “Business Regulation – Bank Supervision and Regulation” which is included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 70 Table of Contents MPS, through the Bank, owns or is seeking a number of patents, trademarks and other forms of intellectual property with respect to the operation of its business and the protection of such intellectual property may in the future require material expenditures. In its operations, MPS, through the Bank, seeks protection for various forms of intellectual property from time to time. No assurance can be given that such protection will be granted. In addition, given the competitive market environment of its business, the Bank must be vigilant in ensuring that its patents and other intellectual property are protected and not exploited by unlicensed third parties. The Bank must also protect itself and defend against intellectual property challenges initiated by third parties making various claims against MPS. With respect to these claims, regardless of whether we are pursuing our claims against perceived infringers or defending our intellectual property from third parties asserting various claims of infringement, it is possible that significant personnel time and monetary resources could be used to pursue or defend such claims. It should also be noted that intellectual property risks extend to foreign countries whose protections of such property are not as extensive as those in the United States. As such, the Bank may need to spend additional sums to ensure that its intellectual property protections are maximized globally. Moreover, should there be a material, improper use of the Bank’s intellectual property, this could have an impact on the division’s operations. Costs of conforming products and services to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards (the “PCI DSS”) are costly and could continue to affect the operations of MPS. The PCI DSS is a multifaceted standard that includes data security management, policies and procedures as well as other protective measures, that was created by the largest credit card associations in the world in an effort to protect the nonpublic personal information of all types of cardholders, including prepaid cardholders and holders of network branded credit cards (such as Discover, MasterCard and Visa). The PCI DSS mandates a prescribed technical foundation for the collection, storage and transmission of cardholder data and also contains significant provisions regarding the testing of security protections by various entities in the payment card industry, including MPS. Compliance with the PCI DSS is costly and changes to the standards could have an equal, or greater, effect on profitability of the relevant business division. The potential for fraud in the card payment industry is significant. Issuers of prepaid and credit cards have suffered significant losses in recent years with respect to the theft of cardholder data that has been illegally exploited for personal gain. The theft of such information is regularly reported and affects not only individuals but businesses as well. Many types of credit card fraud exist, including the counterfeiting of cards and “skimming.” Losses from fraud have been substantial for certain card industry participants. Although fraud has not had a material impact on the profitability of the Bank, it is possible that such activity could adversely impact in the future, notwithstanding, our recent introduction of EMV (i.e., chip-enabled) cards. Part of our business depends on sales agents who do not sell our products exclusively. Our business model, to some degree, depends upon the use of sales agents who are not our employees. These agents sell the products and services of many different processors to merchants and other parties in need of card services. Failure to maintain good relations with such sales agents could have a negative impact on our business. 71 Table of Contents Products and services offered by MPS involve many business parties and the possibility of collusion exists. As described above, the theft of cardholder data is a significant threat in the industry in which MPS operates. This threat also includes the possibility that there is collusion between certain participants in the card system to act illegally. Although MPS is not aware of any instances to date, it is possible that such activities could occur in the future, thereby impacting its operation and profitability. Competition in the card industry is significant. In order to maintain an edge to its products and offerings, MPS must invest significantly in technology and research and development. The heavy emphasis upon technology in the products and services offered by MPS requires significant expenditures with respect to research and development both to exploit technological gains and to develop new products and services to meet customers’ needs. As is common with most research and development, while some efforts may yield substantial benefits for the division, others will not, thereby resulting in expenditures for which profits will not be realized. MPS is not able to predict with any degree of certainty as to the level of research and development that will be required in the future, how much those efforts will cost, or how profitable such developments will be for the division once undertaken. Our business could suffer if there is a decline in the use of prepaid cards or there are adverse developments with respect to the prepaid financial services industry in general. As the prepaid financial services industry evolves, consumers may find prepaid financial services to be less attractive than other financial services. Consumers might not use prepaid financial services for any number of reasons. For example, negative publicity surrounding the Company or other prepaid financial service providers could impact MPS’ business and prospects for growth to the extent it adversely impacts the perception of prepaid financial services. If consumers do not continue or increase their usage of prepaid cards, MPS’ operating revenues may remain at current levels or decline. Growth of prepaid financial services as an electronic payment mechanism may not occur or may occur more slowly than estimated. If there is a shift in the mix of payment forms used by consumers (i.e., cash, credit cards, traditional debit cards and prepaid cards) away from products and services offered by MPS, such a shift could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Discover, MasterCard and Visa, as well as other electronic funds networks in which MPS operates, could change their rules. Pursuant to the agreements between MPS and Discover, MasterCard, Visa and other card networks, these third parties typically have retained the right to prescribe certain business practices and procedures with respect to parties such as MPS. Such prescribed terms include, but are not limited to, a contracting party’s level of capital as well as other business requirements. Discover, MasterCard and Visa also retain the right in their agreements with industry participants such as MPS to unilaterally change the rules under which such transactions are processed with little or no advance warning. This power includes the power to prevent MPS from accessing their networks in order to process transactions. Should any third party choose to invoke this right unilaterally, such changes could materially impact the operations of MPS. 72 Table of Contents Our business is heavily dependent upon the Internet and any negative disruptions to its operation could negatively impact our business. Much of our business depends upon transactions being processed through the Internet. Like nearly all other commercial enterprises, we rely upon others to provide the Internet so that commerce can be conducted. Were there to be a failure in the operation of the Internet or a significant impairment in our ability to move information on the Internet or our ability to do so in accordance with customer safeguard protocols, MPS would develop alternative processes during which time revenues and profitability may be lower. Our ability to process transactions requires functioning communication and electricity lines. The nature of the banking industry in general, and the credit card and debit card industry in particular, is that it must be operational every day of the week and every hour of the week. Any disruption in the utilities utilized by the Bank or MPS could have a negative effect on our operations and extensive disruptions could materially affect our operations, and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Data encryption technology has not been perfected and vigilance in MPS’ information technology systems is costly. MPS holds sensitive business and personal information with respect to the products and services it offers. This information, which is generally digitally encrypted, is passed along various technology channels, including the Internet. Although MPS encrypts its customer and other sensitive information and expends significant financial and personnel resources to maintain the integrity of its technology networks and the confidentiality of nonpublic customer information, because such information may travel on public technology and other non-secure channels, the confidential information is potentially susceptible to hacking and other illegal intrusions. Were such a security breach to occur, the provision of products and services to customers of MPS would be impaired. In addition, were a breach to occur, we could incur significant fines from the electronic funds associations involved, or from federal and/or state regulators, and be subject to other prohibitions, as well as extensive litigation from commercial parties and consumers affected by such breach, that would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Unclaimed funds represented by unused value on the cards presents compliance and other risks. The concept of escheatment involves the reporting and delivery of property to states that is abandoned when its rightful owner cannot be readily located and/or identified. In the context of prepaid cards, the funds in connection with such cards can sometimes be “abandoned” or unused for the relevant period of time set forth in each applicable state’s abandoned property laws. MPS utilizes automated programs to ensure its operations are compliant with such applicable laws and regulations. There appears, however, to be a movement among some state regulators to interpret definitions in escheatment statutes and regulations in a manner that is more aggressive. Should such state regulators choose to do so, they may initiate collection or other litigation action against prepaid card issuers for unreported abandoned property. Such actions may seek to assess fines and penalties. MPS operates in a highly competitive environment and the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel may be difficult. MPS competes in a highly competitive environment with other larger and better capitalized financial intermediaries. In addition, the field of professionals involved in the design and production of products and services offered by MPS is highly skilled and actively sought after by financial institutions, electronic card networks and other commercial entities. As such, MPS must spend significant sums to attract employees and executives and must monitor compensation and other employment trends to ensure that compensation packages both foster the necessary creative environment and appropriately compensate such individuals in order to retain them. 73 Table of Contents MPS Revenue Concentration. MPS works with a large number of business partners to derive its revenue. The Company believes four of its partners have reached a size that, should these partners’ business with the Company end or there is a significant decrease in revenues associated with any of these business relationships, the earnings attributable to them would have a material effect on the financial results of the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 