Risk Factors Risks Related to the Mergers There may be unexpected delays in the consummation of the mergers, which would delay receipt of merger consideration by ESS Delaware stockholders. The mergers are expected to close in the second quarter of 2008. However, certain events may delay the consummation of the mergers, including difficulties in obtaining the approval of the principal terms of the reincorporation merger and the other transactions contemplated by the merger agreement by our shareholders or in obtaining sufficient advance proxies necessary to adopt the merger agreement, delays in satisfaction of the closing conditions to which the mergers are subject, delisting of our shares by the NASDAQ Global Market or a determination by the NASDAQ Stock Market Listing Qualifications Panel not to list the shares of ESS Delaware to be issued in the reincorporation merger, or a lengthy SEC review process. If one or more of these events occur, the receipt of cash by ESS Delaware stockholders may be delayed and the mergers and the sale to Imperium ultimately may not be completed. If the mergers are not completed, ESS California’s stock price and future business operations could be harmed. The mergers are subject to a number of customary conditions to closing, including the approval by the shareholders of ESS California of the principal terms of the reincorporation merger and the consent of the stockholders of ESS Delaware to the adoption of the merger agreement, the accuracy of our representations and warranties, compliance with covenants, and the absence of a material adverse change in our business. In order to approve the reincorporation merger, a majority of the outstanding shares of ESS California common stock entitled to vote at the annual meeting must vote to approve the principal terms of the reincorporation merger. In order to approve the cash-out merger, a majority of the outstanding shares of common stock of ESS Delaware entitled to vote must adopt the merger agreement. If the shareholders of ESS California fail to approve the reincorporation merger or fail to submit sufficient advance proxies to execute and deliver the written consent adopting the merger agreement, we will not be able to complete the mergers and you will not receive the merger consideration. As a result, there can be no assurance that the mergers will be completed in a timely manner or at all. If the mergers are not completed for any reason, the stock price of ESS California may decline, particularly if the current market price of our common stock reflects a positive market assumption that the mergers will be completed. Additionally, if the merger agreement is terminated, ESS California may be unable to find a partner willing to engage in a similar transaction on terms as favorable as those set forth in the merger agreement, or at all. This could limit ESS California’s ability to pursue its strategic goals. Uncertainty about the mergers and diversion of management could harm ESS California, whether or not the mergers are completed. Uncertainty about the effect of our pending acquisition by Imperium could adversely affect our business. This uncertainty could lead to a loss of customers, a decline in revenues, impairment in our ability to make necessary operational improvements in our business, an inability to retain or motivate current employees or attract new employees, and deterioration in our results of operations. These adverse affects may be enhanced by the diversion of management time and attention toward completing the mergers. We may be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market and the shares of common stock of ESS Delaware may not be listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. In January 2008, the NASDAQ Stock Market Listing Qualifications Panel staff notified us of its decision to delist our common stock from the NASDAQ Global Market as a result of our failure to hold our annual meeting of shareholders in 2007 in accordance with the NASDAQ Global Market’s continued listing requirements. Our hearing to appeal the NASDAQ Stock Market Listing Qualifications Panel’s decision was held in February 2008, and we do not expect to receive a decision from the hearing panel until April 2008. The panel may decide not to grant us any extension of time to hold the annual meeting, or may not grant us sufficient time to hold our annual meeting and may 11 Table of Contents delist our common stock regardless of whether our shareholders elect directors or approve the sale to Imperium. Our next shareholder meeting will be the annual meeting for approval of the mergers, which we expect to hold in the second quarter of 2008. We do not expect to hold the annual meeting prior to June 2008 in light of the fact that the joint proxy statement/prospectus we need to deliver in connection with the mergers, which may be reviewed by the SEC, must be cleared by the SEC and mailed to our shareholders prior to the annual meeting and that it may take a significant amount of time to solicit a sufficient number of proxies to approve the principal terms of the reincorporation merger and a sufficient number of advance proxies to adopt the merger agreement. In addition, we intend to apply for listing of the shares of common stock of ESS Delaware to be issued in the reincorporation merger on the NASDAQ Global Market. If our stock is delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market or the NASDAQ Stock Market Listing Qualifications Panel determines not to list the shares of common stock of ESS Delaware issued in the reincorporation merger, the mergers and our sale to Imperium may be substantially delayed or may not be completed at all. If our stock is no longer listed for trading on a national stock exchange, the reincorporation merger, which must be completed prior to closing of the cash-out merger, will require compliance with the individual securities laws, or “blue sky” laws, of each of the 50 states. Any blue sky law compliance would be time consuming and expensive, may not be possible, and could result in delay in the completion of the cash-out merger or termination of the merger agreement. In addition, if our stock is delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market or we are unable to list the shares of common stock of ESS Delaware on the NASDAQ Global Market following the reincorporation merger, and if the long-arm provision of Section 2115 of the California Corporations Code is held to apply to ESS Delaware, ESS Delaware may be subject to certain limitations on distributions to stockholders that could apply to the cash-out merger and may restrict or prevent consummation of the cash-out merger. Following the reincorporation merger, your rights as a shareholder will be governed by Delaware law instead of California law and you should note the differences. Your right to dissent from the cash-out merger and seek an appraisal of your shares will be governed by Delaware law instead of California law. In general, under both Delaware law and California law, the process of dissenting and exercising appraisal rights requires strict compliance with technical prerequisites. ESS Delaware stockholders wishing to dissent should consult with their own legal counsel in connection with compliance with Section 262 of the Delaware General Corporation Law or Chapter 13 of the California Corporations Code. There are several differences between the laws of Delaware and California with respect to dissenting stockholders’ appraisal rights. Stockholders of ESS Delaware who are considering seeking appraisal of their shares of ESS Delaware common stock should consider that the fair value of their shares determined under Section 262 of the Delaware General Corporation Law or Chapter 13 of the California Corporations Code could be more than, the same as or less than the value of consideration to be issued and paid in the cash-out merger. Furthermore, ESS Delaware reserves the right to assert in any appraisal proceeding that, for purposes of the appraisal proceeding, the “fair value” of ESS Delaware common stock is less than the value of the consideration to be issued and paid in the cash-out merger. Your ability to sell or otherwise transfer your shares of ESS Delaware common stock between the closing of the reincorporation merger and the closing of the cash-out merger may be limited. Each of ESS California and Delaware Merger Sub has agreed, to the extent reasonably practicable and subject to compliance with all applicable laws and rules and regulations of the NASDAQ Global Market, to use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause trading in shares of ESS Delaware common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market (subsequent to listing thereof, if any) to be suspended immediately following the effective time of the reincorporation merger and to close the stock transfer books of ESS Delaware immediately following the effective time of the reincorporation merger, preventing any transfers of shares of ESS Delaware common stock on the records of ESS Delaware between the time of the reincorporation merger and the time of the cash-out merger. ESS California and Delaware Merger Sub have agreed to halt trading and to close the transfer books of ESS Delaware in order to determine the shareholders of record of ESS California immediately prior to the reincorporation merger, and to ensure that a sufficient number of effective advance proxies have been received to authorize the adoption of the merger agreement following the reincorporation merger and to ensure that the shares of common stock of ESS 12 Table of Contents Delaware that are the subject of such advance proxies are not transferred between the time of the consummation of the reincorporation merger and the consummation of the cash-out merger. If we are able to cause trading in shares of ESS Delaware common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market to be suspended immediately following the effective time of the reincorporation merger and/or to close the stock transfer books of ESS Delaware immediately following the effective time of the reincorporation merger, your ability to sell or otherwise transfer shares of ESS Delaware common stock you would receive in the reincorporation merger will be limited and you may not be able to transfer any such shares of ESS Delaware common stock at all during the time period between the closing of the reincorporation merger and the closing of the cash-out merger. As a result, you may have significantly reduced or no liquidity in your investment in ESS Delaware between the time of the reincorporation merger and the cash-out merger and you may not be able to sell your shares of ESS Delaware in a timely manner or at all. Certain directors and executive officers of ESS California may have potential conflicts of interest in recommending that you vote to approve the principal terms of the reincorporation merger and adopt the merger agreement. ESS California’s directors and executive officers have interests in the mergers as individuals in addition to, and that may be different from, the interests of ESS California shareholders. In certain instances, the merger agreement requires payment of a termination fee to Imperium and reimbursement of expenses of Imperium. Payment of these amounts could adversely affect ESS California’s financial condition or reduce the likelihood that another party proposes an alternative transaction to the mergers. Under the terms of the merger agreement, ESS California may be required to pay Imperium a termination fee of $1,981,000 plus reimbursement of Imperium’s costs of up to $500,000 if the merger agreement is terminated under certain circumstances. The termination fee and expense reimbursement provisions could affect the structure, pricing and terms proposed by other parties seeking to acquire or merge with ESS California, including the possibility that any such other party might choose not to make an alternative transaction proposal to ESS California as a result of the termination fee and expense reimbursement provisions. In addition, should the merger agreement be terminated in circumstances under which such a termination fee and expense reimbursement is payable, the payment of such a fee would reduce the amount of cash available to ESS California going forward. Risks Related to the Company’s Business We have a history of losses and expect to continue to incur net losses in the near-term. We have experienced operating losses in each quarterly and annual period since the quarter ended September 30, 2004. We incurred net income of $3.1 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 including the gain on sale of technology and tangible assets of $10.4 million and net losses of approximately $44.1 million, $99.6 million, and $35.6 million for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. We had an accumulated deficit of approximately $129.5 million as of December 31, 2007. We will need to generate significant increases in our revenues and margins to achieve or maintain profitability or significantly reduce operating expenses or both. There can be no certainty that our efforts to restructure and reduce our operating expenses will reduce or eliminate these losses; indeed, the reductions and restructuring could increase losses due to reduced revenue levels. There can be no certainty that these operating losses will not continue and consume our working capital. If our new business strategy is unsuccessful, it could significantly harm our business and operating results. On September 18, 2006, we announced an ongoing review of our business strategy. In particular, we announced a business strategy to concentrate our standard DVD business activities on serving a few large customers and to look for business partners or acquirers for our high definition HD DVD and Blu-ray DVD business and our camera phone business. On November 3, 2006 we entered into a DVD Technology License 13 Table of Contents Agreement with Silan for the exclusive license of certain standard definition DVD technologies and also granted Silan a non-exclusive license for our remaining standard definition DVD technology, although Silan has recently notified us that it does not intend to proceed with the development, manufacture and sale of any of the DVD technology we licensed to Silan and we have sent Silan a notice to cure this breach of our agreements. As a result, we may not receive any license revenue from Silan with respect to our standard definition DVD technology licensed to Silan. On February 16, 2007, we entered into Asset Purchase Agreements with SiS to sell our HD-DVD and Blu-ray DVD assets and technologies and on the same date announced we were reducing operations of our camera phone business. In conjunction with this strategic review we are currently maintaining our remaining standard definition DVD business and entering into the business of designing, manufacturing and marketing analog processor chips. If the market for our licensed VCD and/or DVD businesses, our retained DVD standard definition businesses or the market for our new product offerings is smaller than we anticipated, our results of operations and business would be adversely affected. In addition, one of our new analog products for a new market we had hoped to enter in 2008 has been delayed beyond the key Christmas and Chinese New Years seasons and we do not expect to bring this new product to market until later in 2009. We expect this delay in bringing this new product to market, will delay our ability to derive revenues from such product. Selling and/or licensing of our standard definition DVD and high definition DVD businesses and shutting down our camera phone business may also reduce the scale of our business and income stream and result in our greater reliance on our remaining businesses. Our strategy to expand our digital audio and analog processor chip businesses is new, and unproven. Our business strategy is currently going through significant evaluation and change. We announced on September 18, 2006 that our business strategy has been going through a significant transition. This transition and our current strategy may fail to stop our operating losses, and we may take alternative measures. As part of this transition, we may not be able to make our current lines of business profitable and therefore may exit them. We may not be able to identify or acquire or transition to new lines of business that may be profitable, and we may not have enough resources to transition to certain alternative lines of business. We are also evaluating alternative business models, markets, products, industries and technologies. We may determine it is in the best interests of our shareholders to move us into alternative lines of business, industries and/or markets other than those in which we have historically operated. Our business is highly dependent on the expansion of the consumer electronics market and our ability to respond to changes in such market. Our focus has been developing products primarily for the consumer electronics market. Due to the short life-cycle of the products in this market, we must identify and capitalize on market opportunities in a timely manner to become a leader in these product areas. Historically, we have had to respond to market trends, identify key products and become the market leader for such products in order to succeed. Unfortunately, we have been unable to maintain our market position in recent periods. The DVD market and our role in that market have shifted, and, as a result, in November 2006 we granted a license for Silan to take over the design, manufacture and sale of certain of our standard definition DVD products, and we also recently sold and licensed our HD-DVD and Blu-ray DVD technologies to SiS. We have historically and we expect to continue to evaluate our strategies in our businesses to ensure that we focus on the technologies and markets that will provide us the best opportunities for the future. Nonetheless, our strategy in potential new markets may not be successful. If the markets for these products and applications decline or fail to develop as expected, or if we are not successful in our efforts to market and sell our products to manufacturers who incorporate our chip into their products, we could exit our historic lines of business and enter other lines of business outside of semiconductors, and it could have a material adverse effect on our business financial conditions and results of operations We operate in highly competitive markets. The markets in which we operate are intensely competitive and are characterized by rapid technological changes, rapid price reductions and short product life cycles. Competition typically occurs at the design stage, when customers evaluate alternative design approaches requiring integrated circuits. Because of short product life cycles, there are frequent design win competitions for next-generation systems. 14 Table of Contents We expect competition to increase in the future from existing competitors and from other companies that may enter our existing or future markets with products that may be provided at lower costs or provide higher levels of integration, higher performance or additional features. In some cases, our competitors have been acquired by even larger organizations, giving them access to even greater resources with which to compete. Advancements in technology can change the competitive environment in ways that may be adverse to us. Unless we are able to develop and deliver highly desirable products in a timely manner continuously and achieve market domination in one or more product lines, we will not be able to achieve long-term sustainable success in this fast consolidating industry. If we are only able to offer commodity products, our results of operations and long-term success will suffer and we will fall prey to stronger competitors. For example, today’s high-performance central processing units in PCs have enough excess computing capacity to perform many of the functions that formerly required a separate chip set, which has reduced demand for our PC audio chips, among other chips. Moreover, our VCD and standard definition DVD products have begun to experience commodity like pricing pressures as new technologies evolve. The announcements and commercial shipments of competitive products could adversely affect sales of our products and may result in increased price competition that would adversely affect the average selling price (“ASP”) and margins of our products. The following factors may affect our ability to compete in our highly competitive markets: • The timing and success of our new product introductions and those of our customers and competitors; • The ability to control product cost and produce consistent yield of our products; • The ability to obtain adequate foundry capacity and sources of raw materials; • The price, quality and performance of our products and the products of our competitors; • The emergence of new multimedia standards; • The development of technical innovations; • The rate at which our customers integrate our products into their products; • The number and nature of our competitors in a given market; and • The protection of our intellectual property rights. We may need additional funds to execute our business plan, and if we are unable to obtain such funds, we may not be able to expand our business, and if we do raise such funds, the shareholders’ ownership in ESS may be subject to dilution. We may be required to obtain substantial additional capital to finance our future growth, fund our ongoing research and development activities and acquire new technologies or companies. To the extent that our existing sources of liquidity and cash flow from operations are insufficient to fund our activities, we may need to seek additional equity or debt financing from time to time. Additional financing may not be available to us when needed or, if available, it may not be available on terms favorable to us. We may need to consummate a private placement or public offering of our capital stock at a lower price than you paid for your shares. If we raise additional capital through the issuance of new securities at a lower price than you paid for your shares, you will be subject to additional dilution. Further, such equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our existing common stock. To compete in our industry, we may need to acquire other companies and technologies and/or restructure our businesses, and we may not be successful acquiring key targets, integrating our acquisitions into our businesses or restructuring our businesses effectively. We believe the semiconductor industry is experiencing a general industry consolidation. To remain competitive, a semiconductor company must be able to offer high-demand products and renew its product offerings in a timely manner. In order to meet such a high turn over in product offerings, in addition to our own research and development of new products, we regularly consider strategic additions or deletions of our product offerings to enhance our strategic position. To remain competitive in this rapidly changing market, we need to constantly update 15 Table of Contents our product offering and realign our cost structure to bring to the market more sophisticated and cost-effective products. However, we may not be able to identify and consummate suitable acquisitions and investments effectively. Conversely, we may not be able to restructure and realign our businesses effectively. Strategic transactions carry risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including: • The failure of the acquired products or technology to attain market acceptance, which may result from our inability to leverage such products and technology successfully; • The failure to integrate acquired products and business with existing products and corporate culture; • The inability to restructure or realign our businesses effectively and cost-efficiently; • The inability to retain key employees from the acquired company; • Diversion of management attention from other business concerns; • The potential for large write-offs of intangible assets; • Issuances of equity securities dilutive to our existing shareholders; • The incurrence of substantial debt and assumption of unknown liabilities; and • Our ability to properly access and maintain an effective internal control environment over an acquired company in order to comply with public reporting requirements. Our quarterly operating results are subject to fluctuations that may cause volatility or a decline in the price of our stock. Historically, our quarterly operating results have fluctuated significantly. Our future quarterly operating results will likely fluctuate from time to time and may not meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors in a particular future period. The price of our common stock could decline due to such fluctuations. The following factors may cause significant fluctuations in our future quarterly operating results: • Charges related to the net realizable value of inventories; • Changes in demand or sales forecast for our products; • Changes in the mix of products sold and our revenue mix; • Changes in the cost of producing our products; • The timely implementation of customer-specific hardware and software requirements for specific design wins; • Increasing pricing pressures and resulting reduction in the ASP of any or all of our products; • Availability and cost of foundry capacity; • Gain or loss of significant customers; • Seasonal customer demand; • The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry; • The timing of our and our competitors’ new product announcements and introductions and the market acceptance of new or enhanced versions of our and our customers’ products; • The timing of significant customer orders and/or design wins; • Charges related to the impairment of other intangible assets; • Loss of key employees which could impact sales or the pace of product development; • The “turns” basis of most of our orders, which makes backlog a poor indicator of the next quarter’s revenue; 16 Table of Contents • The potential for large adjustments due to resolution of multi-year tax examinations; • The lead time we normally receive for our orders, which makes it difficult to predict sales until the end of the quarter; • Availability and cost of raw materials; • Significant increases in expenses associated with the expansion of operations; and • A shift in manufacturing of consumer electronic products away from Asia. We often purchase inventories based on sales forecasts and if anticipated sales do not materialize, we may continue to experience significant inventory charges. We currently place non-cancelable orders to purchase our products from independent foundries and other vendors on an approximately three-month rolling basis, while our customers generally place purchase orders (frequently with short lead times) with us that may be cancelled without significant penalty. Some of these customers may require us to demonstrate our ability to deliver in response to their short lead-time. In order to accommodate such customers, we have to commit to certain inventories before we have a firm commitment from our customers. If anticipated sales and shipments in any quarter are cancelled, do not occur as quickly as expected or become subject to declining ASPs, expense and inventory levels could be disproportionately high and we may be required to record significant inventory charges in our statement of operations in a particular period. In accordance with our accounting policy, we reduce the carrying value of our inventories for estimated slow-moving, excess, obsolete, damaged or otherwise unmarketable products by an amount based on forecasts of future demand and market conditions. As our business grows, we may increasingly rely on distributors, which may further impede our ability to accurately forecast product orders. Additionally, we may venture into new products with different supply chain and logistics requirements which may in turn cause excess or shortage of inventory. Our research and development investments may fail to enhance our competitive position. We invest a significant amount of time and resources in our research and development activities to enhance and maintain our competitive position. Technical innovations are inherently complex and require long development cycles and the commitment of extensive engineering resources. We incur substantial research and development costs to confirm the technical feasibility and commercial viability of a product that in the end may not be successful. If we are not able to successfully complete our research and development projects on a timely basis, we may face competitive disadvantages. There is no assurance that we will recover the development costs associated with these projects or that we will be able to secure the financial resources necessary to fund future research and development efforts. We have recently significantly reduced the size of our research and development workforce and the remaining personnel may not be adequate to enable us to successfully manage existing projects or enter new product markets. Our margins may decrease to a point where we will be unable to sustain the research and development resources necessary to remain competitive. Our success within the semiconductor industry depends upon our ability to develop new products in response to rapid technological changes and evolving industry standards. The semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards and product obsolescence. Our success is highly dependent upon the successful development and timely introduction of new products at competitive prices and performance levels. Recently our financial performance has suffered because we were late with product introductions compared to our competition and we expect this trend in our financial performance to continue until we deliver new product offerings that are competitive and accepted by the market. The success of new products depends on a number of factors, including: • Anticipation of market trends; • Timely completion of design, development, and testing of both the hardware and software for each product; 17 Table of Contents • Timely completion of customer specific design, development and testing of both hardware and software for each design win; • Market acceptance of our products and the products of our customers; • Offering new products at competitive prices; • Meeting performance, quality and functionality requirements of customers and OEMs; and • Meeting the timing, volume and price requirements of customers and OEMs. Our products are designed to conform to current specific industry standards; however, we have no control over future modifications to these standards. Manufacturers may not continue to follow the current standards, which would make our products less desirable to manufacturers and reduce our sales. Our success is highly dependent upon our ability to develop new products in response to these changing industry standards. Our sales may fluctuate due to seasonality and changes in customer demand. Since we are primarily focused on the consumer electronics market, we are likely to be affected both by changes in consumer demand and by seasonality in the sales of our products. Historically, over half of consumer electronics products are sold during the holiday seasons. Consequently, our results during a period that covers a non-holiday season may vary dramatically from a period that covers a holiday season. Consumer electronics product sales have historically been much higher during the holiday shopping seasons than during other times of the year, although the manufacturers’ shipments vary from quarter to quarter depending on a number of factors, including retail levels and retail promotional activities. In addition, consumer demand often varies from one product to another in consecutive holiday seasons and is strongly influenced by the overall state of the economy. Because the consumer electronics market experiences substantial seasonal fluctuations, seasonal trends may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate significantly and our inability to forecast these trends may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. For instance, as ASPs for DVD products decline, customer demands for VCD products, from which we enjoy a good product margin, even under our recent arrangement to license our VCD products, may shift to DVD products and ultimately render our VCD products obsolete. In the future, if the market for our products is not as strong during the holiday seasons, whether as a result of changes in consumer tastes, changes in our mix of products or because of an overall reduction in consumer demand due to economic conditions, we may fail to meet expectations of securities analysts and investors which could cause our stock price to fall. Our products are subject to increasing pricing pressures. The markets for most of the applications for our chips are characterized by intense price competition. The willingness of OEMs to design our chips into their products depends, to a significant extent, upon our ability to sell our products at cost-effective prices. We expect the ASP of our existing products (particularly our DVD decoder) to decline significantly over their product lives as the markets for our products mature, new products or technology emerge and competition increases. If we are unable to reduce our costs sufficiently to offset declines in product prices or are unable to introduce more advanced products with higher margins, our gross margins may decline in the future. We may lose business to competitors who have significant competitive advantages. Our existing and potential competitors consist, in part, of large domestic and international companies that have substantially greater financial, manufacturing, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources, greater intellectual property rights, broader product lines and longer-standing relationships with customers than we have. These competitors may have more visibility into market trends, which is critically important in an industry characterized by rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards and product obsolescence. Our competitors also include a number of independent and emerging companies who may be able to better adapt to changing market conditions and customer demand. In addition, some of our current and potential competitors maintain their own semiconductor fabrication facilities and could benefit from certain capacity, cost and technical advantages. We expect that market experience to date and the predicted growth of the market will continue to attract and motivate more and stronger competitors. 18 Table of Contents In the Video business, DVD and VCD players face significant competition from video-on-demand, VCRs and other video formats. Further, VCD players, which tend to be viewed as a less expensive alternative, are being replaced by DVD players as DVD players come down in price. We expect that the DVD platform will face competition from other platforms including set-top-boxes, as well as multi-function game boxes being manufactured and sold by large companies. Some of our competitors may be more diversified than us and may supply chips for multiple platforms. Any of these competitive factors could reduce our sales and market share and may force us to lower our prices, adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations. As we focus on standard definition DVD technology and move away from HD-DVD and Blu-ray DVD technologies, demand may shift in such a way that we would no longer have the technology to address the market’s changing demand and be unable to remain competitive. Our business is dependent upon retaining key personnel and attracting new employees. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our top management including Robert L. Blair, our President and Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”). Fred S.L. Chan, our Chairman of the Board, and James B. Boyd, our Chief Financial Officer, recently resigned and Bruce J. Alexander, who took over as our Chairman of the Board, recently passed away. The loss of the services of Mr. Blair or any of our other key executives could adversely affect our business. We may not be able to retain our other key personnel and searching for key personnel replacements could divert the attention of other senior management and increase our operating expenses. We currently do not maintain any key person life insurance. Additionally, to manage our future operations effectively, we will need to hire and retain additional management personnel, design personnel as well as hardware and software engineers. We may have difficulty recruiting these employees or integrating them into our business. The loss of services of any of our key personnel, the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future, or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly design personnel and software engineers, could make it difficult to implement our key business strategies, such as timely and effective product introductions. Changes in stock option accounting rules may adversely impact our reported operating results prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, our stock price and our competitiveness in the employee marketplace. Our success and competitiveness depend in large part on our ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees. Achieving this objective may be difficult due to many factors, including fluctuations in global economic and industry conditions, changes in our management or leadership, the effectiveness of our compensation programs, including our equity-based programs, and competitors’ hiring practices. In addition, we began recording a charge to earnings for stock options and ESPP shares in our first fiscal quarter of 2006. This requirement reduces the attractiveness of certain equity-based compensation programs as the expense associated with the grants decreases our profitability. We may make certain adjustments to our broad-based equity compensation programs. These changes may reduce the effectiveness of compensation programs. If we do not successfully attract, retain and motivate key employees as a result of these or other factors, our ability to capitalize on our opportunities and our operating results and may be materially and adversely affected. We rely on distributors for a significant portion of our revenues and if these relationships deteriorate our financial results could be adversely affected. Sales through our then-current largest distributor FE Global (a Singapore-based company) were approximately 18%, 32% and 37% of our net revenues for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. As previously announced, on August 31, 2007, our distribution agreement with FE Global was terminated, and we signed a new distribution agreement with CKD (Hong Kong) High Tech Company Limited (“CKD”) who will perform similar functions as those previously provided by FE Global. In addition to FE Global, Weiking Industrial Company, Ltd. (Weiking) accounted for 11% of our revenues in 2007. Our distributors are not subject to any minimum purchase requirements and can discontinue marketing any of our products at any time. In addition, our distributors have rights of return for unsold products and rights to pricing allowances to compensate for rapid, 19 Table of Contents unexpected price changes. Therefore, we do not recognize revenue until sold through to our end-customers. If our relationship with our distributors deteriorates, our revenues could fluctuate significantly as we experience disruption to our sales and collection processes. We may increasingly rely on distributors, which may reduce our exposure to future sales opportunities. Although we believe that we could replace our distributors, there can be no assurance that we could replace them in a timely manner, or even if a replacement were found, that the new distributors would be as effective in generating revenue for us. The reduction, delay or cancellation of orders or the loss of a distributor could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any difficulty in collecting amounts due from our distributors could harm our financial condition. Our customer base is highly concentrated, so the loss of a major customer could adversely affect our business. A substantial portion of our net revenues has been derived from sales to a small number of our customers. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, sales to our top five end-customers across business segments (including end-customers that buy our products from our former largest distributor FE Global) accounted for approximately 66% of our net revenues. We expect this concentration of sales to continue along with other changes in the composition of our customer base. The reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more major customers or the loss of one or more major customers could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any difficulty in collecting amounts due from one or more key customers could harm our financial condition. Because we are dependent upon a limited number of suppliers, we could experience delivery disruptions or unexpected product cost increases. We depend on a limited number of suppliers to obtain adequate supplies of quality raw materials on a timely basis. We do not generally have guaranteed supply arrangements with our suppliers. If we have difficulty in obtaining materials in the future, alternative suppliers may not be available, or if available, these suppliers may not provide materials in a timely manner or on favorable terms. If we cannot obtain adequate materials for the manufacture of our products, we may be forced to pay higher prices, experience delays and our relationships with our customers may suffer. In addition, we license certain technology from third parties that is incorporated into many of our key products. If we are unable to obtain or license the technology on commercially reasonable terms and on a timely basis, we will not be able to deliver products to our customers on competitive terms and in a timely manner and our relationships with our customers may suffer. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights from unauthorized use and we may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. To protect our intellectual property rights we rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secret laws and confidentiality procedures. We have numerous patents granted in the United States with some corresponding foreign patents. These patents will expire at various times. We cannot assure you that patents will be issued from any of our pending applications or applications in preparation or that any claims allowed from pending applications or applications in preparation will be of sufficient scope or strength. We may not be able to obtain patent protection in all countries where our products may be sold. Also, our competitors may be able to design around our patents. The laws of some foreign countries may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent, as do the laws of the United States. We cannot assure you that the actions we have taken to protect our intellectual property will adequately prevent misappropriation of our technology or that our competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights or positions. Litigation by or against us could result in significant expense and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation results in a favorable determination for us. Any claim, even if without merit, may require us to spend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or cross-licensing arrangements, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. We may be 20 Table of Contents required to pay substantial damages or cease the use and sale of infringing products, or both. In general, a successful claim of infringement against us in connection with the use of our technologies could adversely affect our business and our results of operations could be significantly harmed. See Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” We may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. In the event of an adverse result in any such litigation our business could be materially harmed. We have significant international sales and operations that are subject to the special risks of doing business outside the United States. Substantially all of our sales are to customers (including distributors) in China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Indonesia and Korea. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, sales to customers in China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Indonesia and Korea were approximately 87% of our net revenues. If our sales in one of these countries or territories, such as Korea, were to fall, our financial condition could be materially impaired. We expect that international sales will continue to represent a significant portion of our net revenues. In addition, substantially all of our products are manufactured, assembled and tested by independent third parties in Asia. There are special risks associated with conducting business outside of the United States, including: • Unexpected changes in legislative or regulatory requirements and related compliance problems; • Political, social and economic instability; • Lack of adequate protection of our intellectual property rights; • Changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, including changes in most favored nations trading status; • Tariffs, quotas and other trade barriers and restrictions; • Longer payment cycles, greater difficulties in accounts receivable collection and greater difficulties in ascertaining the credit of our customers and potential business partners; • Potentially adverse tax consequences, including withholding in connection with the repatriation of earnings and restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; • Difficulties in obtaining export licenses for technologies; • Language and other cultural differences, which may inhibit our sales and marketing efforts and create internal communication problems among our U.S. and foreign counterparts; and • Currency exchange risks. Our products are manufactured by independent third parties. We rely on independent foundries to manufacture all of our products. Substantially all of our products are currently manufactured by TSMC, GSMC, and other independent Asian foundries in Asia. Our reliance on these or other independent foundries involves a number of risks, including: • Possibility of an interruption or loss of manufacturing capacity; • Reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields and costs; and • The inability to reduce our costs as rapidly as competitors who perform their own manufacturing and who are not bound by volume commitments to subcontractors at fixed prices. Any failure of these third-party foundries to deliver products or otherwise perform as requested could damage our relationships with our customers and harm our sales and financial results. To address potential foundry capacity constraints in the future, we may be required to enter into arrangements, including equity investments in or loans to independent wafer manufacturers in exchange for guaranteed production capacity, joint ventures to own and operate foundries, or “take or pay” contracts that commit us to purchase specified quantities of wafers over extended periods. These arrangements could require us to commit substantial 21 Table of Contents capital or to grant licenses to our technology. If we need to commit substantial capital, we may need to obtain additional debt or equity financing, which could result in dilution to our shareholders. We have extended sales cycles, which increase our costs in obtaining orders and reduce the predictability of our earnings. Our potential customers often spend a significant amount of time to evaluate, test and integrate our products. Our sales cycles often last for several months and may last for up to a year or more. These longer sales cycles require us to invest significant resources prior to the generation of revenues and subject us to greater risk that customers may not order our products as anticipated. In addition, orders expected in one quarter could shift to another because of the timing of customers’ purchase decisions. Any cancellation or delay in ordering our products after a lengthy sales cycle could adversely affect our business. Our products are subject to recall risks. The greater integration of functions and complexity of our products increase the risk that our customers or end users could discover latent defects or subtle faults in our products. These discoveries could occur after substantial volumes of product have been shipped, which could result in material recalls and replacement costs. Product recalls could also divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development needs and could adversely impact our customer relationships. In addition, we could be subject to product liability claims that could distract management, increase costs and delay the introduction of new products. The semiconductor industry is subject to cyclical variations in product supply and demand. The semiconductor industry is subject to cyclical variations in product supply and demand, the timing, length and volatility of which are difficult to predict. Downturns in the industry have been characterized by abrupt fluctuations in product demand, production over-capacity and accelerated decline of ASP. Upturns in the industry have been characterized by rising costs of goods sold and lack of production capacity at our suppliers. These cyclical changes in demand and capacity, upward and downward, could significantly harm our business. Our quarterly net revenues and gross margin performance could be significantly impacted by these cyclical variations. A prolonged downturn in the semiconductor industry could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that the market will improve from a cyclical downturn or that cyclical performance will stabilize or improve. The value of our common stock may be adversely affected by market volatility. The price of our common stock fluctuates significantly. Many factors influence the price of our common stock, including: • Future announcements concerning us, our competitors or our principal customers, such as quarterly operating results, changes in earnings estimates by analysts, technological innovations, new product introductions, governmental regulations, or litigation; • Changes in accounting rules, particularly those related to the expensing of stock options and accounting for uncertainty in income taxes; • The liquidity within the market for our common stock; • Sales or purchases by us or by our officers, directors, other insiders and large shareholders; • Investor perceptions concerning the prospects of our business and the semiconductor industry; • Market conditions and investor sentiment affecting market prices of equity securities of high technology companies; and • General economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions or international currency fluctuations. 22 Table of Contents We are incurring additional costs and devoting more management resources to comply with increasing regulation of corporate governance and disclosure. We are spending an increased amount of management time and external resources to analyze and comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and the NASDAQ Global Market rules and listing requirements. Devoting the necessary resources to comply with evolving corporate governance and public disclosure standards may result in increased general and administrative expenses and attention to these compliance activities and divert management’s attention from our on-going business operations. Failure to maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to include a report of management’s assessment of the design and effectiveness of our internal controls as part of our Annual Report on Form 10-K. In order to issue our report, our management must document both the design for our internal control over financial reporting and the testing processes, including those related to new systems and programs, that support management’s evaluation and conclusion. During the course of testing our internal controls each year, we may identify deficiencies which we may not be able to remediate, document and retest in time, due to difficulties including those arising from turnover of qualified personnel, to meet the deadline for management to complete its report. Upon the completion of our testing and documentation, certain deficiencies may be discovered that will require remediation, the costs of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time we may not be able to ensure that our management can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. In the future, if we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our stock price. We are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our investments and in interest rates. At December 31, 2007, we had $49.9 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. These balances represented over 50% of our total assets. We invest our cash in a variety of financial instruments, consisting principally of investments in commercial paper, money market funds, and highly liquid debt securities of corporations, and the United States government and its agencies. These investments are denominated in U.S. dollars. We do not have any investments in auction rate securities. Investments in both fixed interest rate and floating interest rate instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate debt securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. Due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded equity investments is judged to be other-than-temporary. We may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that decline in market value due to changes in interest rates. However, because any debt securities we hold are classified as “available-for-sale,” no gains or losses are recognized due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity. In addition, the credit worthiness of the issuer, relative values of alternative investments, the liquidity of the instrument, and other general market conditions may affect the fair values of interest rate sensitive investments. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comment None 