Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results include those described below as well as other risks and factors identified from time to time in our SEC filings. The Company’s business could be harmed by any of these risks, as well as other risks that we have not identified. The trading price of the Company’s common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, including the Company’s financial statements and related notes. 53 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Industry and Business Failure to generate sufficient capital to support our anticipated growth could adversely affect our earnings and prospects. The Company has recently experienced considerable growth, having increased its assets from $1.3 billion to $1.7 billion during the two fiscal years ended September 30, 2013. Funded primarily by growth of no- and low-interest bearing deposits, the proceeds thereof have been invested primarily in municipal bonds, mortgage-backed securities (“MBS”) and investment securities available for sale. While the Company believes its asset quality to be good, particularly in comparison to most banking institutions, the Company’s asset growth, if continued as expected, will generate a need for higher levels of capital which management believes may not be met through earnings retention alone. In that respect, during the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2013, the Company issued 507,354 shares of common stock which raised $13.6 million, net of direct selling costs, all of which qualifies as Tier 1 capital for regulatory purposes. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company will be able to continue to access sources of capital, private or public. Failure to remain well-capitalized, or to attain potentially even higher levels of capitalization that will be required in the future under regulatory initiatives mandated by Congress, our regulatory agencies, or under the Basel accords, could adversely affect the Company’s earnings and prospects. We may have difficulty managing our growth which may divert resources and limit our ability to expand our operations successfully. We have experienced significant growth in the amount of our assets and the level of our deposits. Our future profitability will depend in part on our continued ability to grow; however, we may not be able to sustain our historical growth rate or be able to grow. Our future success will depend on competitive factors and on the ability of our senior management to continue to improve our system of internal controls and procedures and manage a growing number of customer relationships. We may not be able to implement improvements to these internal controls and procedures in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls as occurred this fiscal year. Consequently, continued growth, if achieved, may place a strain on our operational infrastructure, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our underwriting practices may not prevent losses in our loan portfolio. Our underwriting practices are designed to mitigate risk by adhering to specific loan parameters. Components of our underwriting program include an analysis of the borrower and their creditworthiness, a financial statement review, and, if applicable, cash flow projections and a valuation of collateral. We may incur losses in our loan portfolio if our underwriting criteria fail to identify credit risks. It is possible that losses will exceed the amounts the Bank has set aside for loss reserves and result in reduced interest income and increased provision for loan losses, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our lending operations are concentrated in Iowa and South Dakota. Our lending activities are largely based in Iowa and South Dakota. As a result, our financial performance depends to a great degree on the economic conditions in these areas. If local economic conditions worsen it could cause us to experience an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans along with a reduction in the value of the collateral securing such loans, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 54 Table of Contents Difficult economic and market conditions have adversely affected our industry. General economic trends, low growth, reduced availability of commercial credit and continued levels of high unemployment have negatively impacted the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write-downs. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to their customers and to each other. This has led to increased commercial and consumer deficiencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: · Separate and apart from enforcement orders issued against the Bank and the Company, we face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities; · Customer demand for loans secured by real estate could be reduced due to weaker economic conditions, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or an increase in interest rates; · The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions, and whether economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. The level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect the accuracy of our estimates which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process; · The value of the portfolio of investment securities that we hold, including our trust preferred securities, may be adversely affected; and · Due to financial setbacks or other regulatory action, we may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC insurance premiums in the future. See “– Regulation.” The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act is currently unknown given that many of the details and substance of the new laws will be determined through agency rulemaking. The full compliance burden and impact on our operations and profitability with respect to the Dodd-Frank Act are still not fully known, as the Dodd-Frank Act delegates to various federal agencies the task of implementing its many provisions through regulation. Hundreds of new federal regulations, studies and reports were required under the Dodd-Frank Act and not all of them have been finalized. Although certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act have been implemented (such as the transfer of regulation of federal savings banks like the Bank to the OCC, and the transfer of savings and loan holding company regulation to the Federal Reserve), rules and policies in this area will be further developing for months and years to come. Based on the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and anticipated implementing regulations, it is highly likely that banks and thrifts as well as their holding companies will be subject to significantly increased regulation and compliance obligations that expose us to higher costs as well as noncompliance risk and consequences. 55 Table of Contents Transfer of the OTS’ supervisory and rulemaking functions to other federal banking agencies has changed the way that we are regulated. Both the Bank and Company have transitioned to the jurisdiction of new primary federal regulators, which changes the way both are regulated. Specifically, the OTS’ supervisory and rulemaking functions (except for consumer protection) relating to all federal savings associations were transferred to the OCC on July 21, 2011, while the OTS’ supervisory and rulemaking functions relating to savings and loan holding companies and their non-depository institution subsidiaries were transferred to the FRB on the same date. The transition of supervisory functions from the OTS to these agencies has altered the operations of the Bank and Company so as to be more closely aligned with the OCC’s and FRB’s respective supervision of national banks and their bank holding companies. As a result of these transitions, we have experienced changes in the way we are supervised. While we believe our experience thus far has been positive, we may yet experience challenges with respect to this transition to our new regulators. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau may reshape the consumer financial laws through rulemaking and enforcement of prohibitions against unfair, deceptive or abusive practices, which may directly impact the business operations of depository institutions offering consumer financial products or services, including the Bank. The Bureau has broad rulemaking authority to administer and carry out the purposes and objectives of the “Federal consumer financial laws, and to prevent evasions thereof” with respect to all financial institutions that offer financial products and services to consumers. The Bureau is also authorized to prescribe rules, applicable to any covered person or service provider, identifying and prohibiting acts or practices that are “unfair, deceptive, or abusive” in connection with any transaction with a consumer for a consumer financial product or service, or the offering of a consumer financial product or service (“UDAAP authority”). The term “abusive” is new and because Bureau officials have indicated that compliance will be achieved through enforcement actions rather than the issuance of regulations, we cannot predict to what extent the Bureau’s future actions will have on the banking industry or the Company. The full reach and impact of the Bureau’s broad new rulemaking powers and UDAAP authority on the operations of financial institutions offering consumer financial products or services is currently unknown. Notwithstanding the foregoing, insured depository institutions with assets of $10 billion or less (such as the Bank) will continue to be supervised and examined by their primary federal regulators, rather than the Bureau, with respect to compliance with federal consumer protection laws. To date, the Bureau has finalized a number of regulations affecting non-bank entities that offer consumer financial products and services, including those related to “larger participants” (over which the Bureau will have supervisory authority). In addition, with respect to all entities subject to Bureau enforcement activity, the Bureau has issued final rules with respect to the confidential treatment of privileged information and rules of practice for adjudicatory proceedings. The Bureau issued on May 23, 2012 an advance notice of proposed rulemaking regarding prepaid cards, which are the core of the Bank’s MPS business line. In its request for information, the Bureau asked for comments regarding the issuance, use and characteristics (such as FDIC insurance) of prepaid cards and the funds that are loaded onto them. It is anticipated that a proposed rule with respect to the offering of prepaid products will be issued within the next calendar year. It is not possible, however, for the Bank or the Company to project the effect of a final rule on the MPS business unit, the Bank, or on us at this time. 56 Table of Contents The Bureau finalized its ability to repay (ATR) rule as well as its qualified mortgage rule in January 2013 (with clarifications adopted in July of this year). The ATR rule applies to residential mortgage loan applications received after January 20, 2014. The scope of the rule specifically applies to loans securing 1-4 unit dwellings and includes purchases, refinances and home equity loans for principal or second homes. Under the ATR rules, a lender may not make a residential mortgage loan unless the lender makes a reasonable and good faith determination that is based on verified, documented information at or before consummation that the borrower has a reasonable ability to repay. The eight underwriting factors that must be considered and verified include the following: (1) income and assets: (2) employment status; (3) monthly payment of loan; (4) monthly payment of any simultaneous loan secured by the same property; (5) monthly payment for other mortgage-related obligations like property taxes and insurance; (6) current debt obligations; (7) monthly debt to income ratio; and (8) credit history (although eight factors are delineated, the ATR rule does not dictate that a lender follow a particular underwriting model). Liability for violations of the ATR rule include actual damages, statutory damages and court costs and attorneys’ fees. Additionally, the Bureau published regulations required by the Dodd-Frank Act related to “qualified mortgages,” which are mortgages for which there is a presumption that the lender has satisfied the ATR rules. Pursuant to Dodd-Frank, qualified mortgages (QMs) must have certain product-feature prerequisites and affordability underwriting requirements. Generally, to meet the QM test, the lender must calculate the monthly payments based on the highest payment that will apply in the first five years and the consumer must have a total DTI that is less than or equal to 43%. The QM rule provides a safe harbor for lenders that make loans that satisfy the definition of a QM and are not higher priced. With respect to higher-priced mortgage loans, there is a rebuttable presumption of compliance available to the lender with respect to compliance with the ATR rule. With respect to final regulations that affect insured depository institutions such as the Bank, the Bureau also issued a final rule related to remittances, which covers entities that provide at least 100 remittance transfers per calendar year. As such, the Bank became subject to the rule, which provides a six month compliance period. The Bank is implementing a compliance solution and expects to meet the required compliance date. Our most recent Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”) rating could have a negative effect on the OCC’s review of certain banking applications. Under the CRA, the Bank is evaluated periodically by its primary federal banking regulator to determine if it is meeting its continuing and affirmative obligation consistent with its safe and sound operation to help meet the credit needs of its entire community, including low and moderate income neighborhoods. In the Bank’s most recent CRA examination on January 24, 2011, notwithstanding that the Bank’s record was consistent with an overall rating of “Satisfactory,” the Bank received a “Needs to Improve” rating due to the criticized credit practices associated with the iAdvance product, which the Bank no longer offers. The CRA requires the OCC to take such rating into account in considering an application for any of the following: (i) the establishment of a domestic branch; (ii) the relocation of its main office or of a branch; (iii) the merger or consolidation with or acquisition of assets or assumption of liabilities of an insured depository institution; or (iv) the conversion of the Bank to a national charter. If the Bank submits any of the above-listed applications, the OCC may consider the Bank’s overall “Needs to Improve” rating negatively. 57 Table of Contents Legislative and regulatory initiatives taken to date may not achieve their intended objective. Legislative and regulatory initiatives taken to date by Congress and the federal banking regulators to address financial regulatory reform may not achieve their intended objectives, thereby requiring additional legislation or regulation of the financial services industry. Under the final capital rule (known as “Basel III”), minimum requirements will increase for both the quantity and quality of capital held by banking organizations. Under Basel III, the rule includes a new minimum ratio of common equity tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of 4.5% and a common equity tier 1 capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of risk-weighted assets. The rule also imposes a minimum ratio of tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of 6 percent and includes a minimum leverage ratio of 4 percent for all banking organizations. The rule also emphasizes common equity tier 1 capital and implements strict eligibility criteria for regulatory capital instruments. The total capital ratio remains at 8% and the general PCA framework remains but incorporates these increased minimum requirements. In addition, the final rule changed the methodology for calculating risk-weighted assets to enhance risk sensitivity. Smaller banks like the Bank are permitted, under the general risk-based capital rule, to use a 50% risk weight for prudently underwritten first lien mortgages that are not past due, reported as nonaccrual or restructured and a 100% risk weight for all other residential mortgages. With respect to residential mortgage exposure, the new rules also provide for small banks a safe harbor from recourse treatment for loans sold with certain repurchase triggers such as early default clauses. Additionally, smaller banks with less than $15 billion in assets are grandfathered to allow trust preferred securities as part of their Tier 1 capital (such instruments remain subject to a limit of 25% of Tier 1 capital elements, excluding non-qualifying capital instruments and for all regulatory capital deductions and adjustments have been applied to Tier 1 capital). The Basel III phase-in period for smaller, less complex banking organizations like the Company and the Bank will not begin until January 2015. The Basel III Accord was finalized and clarified that unrealized losses and gains on securities will not affect regulatory capital for those companies that opt out of the requirement, which the Company intends to do. We have a concentration of our assets in mortgage-backed securities. As of September 30, 2013 approximately 34.6% of the Bank’s assets were invested in mortgage‑backed securities. The Company’s mortgage-backed and related securities portfolio consists primarily of securities issued by U.S. government instrumentalities, including those of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac which are in conservatorship. The Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac certificates are modified pass-through mortgage-backed securities that represent undivided interests in underlying pools of fixed-rate, or certain types of adjustable-rate, predominantly single-family and, to a lesser extent, multi-family residential mortgages issued by these U.S. government instrumentalities. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac generally provide the certificate holder a guarantee of timely payments of interest, whether or not collected. Privately issued mortgage pass‑through certificates generally provide no guarantee as to timely payment of interest or principal, and reliance is placed on the creditworthiness of the issuer. Mortgage-backed securities generally increase the quality of the Company’s assets by virtue of the insurance or guarantees that back them, are more liquid than individual mortgage loans and may be used to collateralize borrowings or other obligations of the Company. While mortgage-backed securities carry a reduced credit risk as compared to whole loans, such securities remain subject to the risk that a fluctuating interest rate environment, along with other factors such as the geographic distribution of the underlying mortgage loans, may alter the prepayment rate of such mortgage loans and so affect both the prepayment speed, and value, of such securities. The prepayment risk associated with mortgage-backed securities is monitored periodically, and prepayment rate assumptions adjusted as appropriate to update the Company’s mortgage-backed securities accounting and asset/liability reports. 58 Table of Contents We recorded other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”) charges in our trust preferred securities (“TRUPS”) portfolio in the past, and we could record additional losses in the future. We determine the fair value of our investment securities based on GAAP and three levels of informational inputs that may be used to measure fair value. The price at which a security may be sold in a market transaction could be significantly lower than the quoted market price for the security, particularly if the quoted market price is based on infrequent trading history, the market for the security is illiquid, or a significant amount of securities are being sold. In fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, there were no other‑than-temporary impairments recorded. The valuation of our TRUPS will continue to be influenced by external market and other factors, including implementation of SEC and Financial Accounting Standards Board guidance on fair value accounting, the financial condition of specific issuers deferral and default rates of specific issuer financial institutions, rating agency actions, and the prices at which observable market transactions occur. If we are required to record additional OTTI charges on our TRUPS portfolio, we could experience potentially significant earnings losses as well as an adverse impact to our capital position. Risks Related to the Banking Industry Our reputation and business could be damaged by our entry into the Consent Orders and other negative publicity. Reputational risk, or the risk to our business, earnings and capital from negative publicity, is inherent in our business. Negative publicity can result from actual or alleged conduct in a number of areas, including legal and regulatory compliance, lending practices, corporate governance, litigation, inadequate protection of customer data, ethical behavior of our employees, and from actions taken by regulators and others as a result of that conduct. Damage to our reputation, including as a result of negative publicity associated with the Consent Orders now or in the future, could impact our ability to attract new and maintain existing loan and deposit customers, employees and business relationships, and particularly with respect to our MPS division, could result in the imposition of additional regulatory requirements, operational restrictions, enhanced supervision and/or civil money penalties. Such damage could also adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital. If any of these measures should be imposed in the future, they could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud. There have been a number of publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees of financial services firms in recent years. Misconduct by our employees could include hiding unauthorized activities from us, improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of our customers or improper use of confidential information. Employee fraud, errors and employee and customer misconduct could subject us to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation. It is not always possible to prevent employee errors and misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Employee errors could also subject us to civil claims for negligence. 59 Table of Contents Although we maintain a system of internal controls and procedures designed to reduce the risk of loss from employee or customer fraud or misconduct and employee errors as well as insurance coverage to mitigate against operational risks, including data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud, these internal controls may fail to prevent or detect such an occurrence, or such an occurrence may not be insured or exceed applicable insurance limits. In addition, there have also been a number of cases where financial institutions have been the victim of fraud related to unauthorized wire and Automated Clearinghouse transactions. The facts and circumstances of each case vary but generally involve criminals posing as customers (i.e., stealing bank customers’ identities) to transfer funds out of the institution quickly in an effort to place the funds beyond recovery prior to detection. Although we have policies and procedures in place to verify the authenticity of our customers and prevent identity theft, we can provide no assurances that these policies and procedures will prevent all fraudulent transfers. In addition, although we have safeguards in place, it is possible that our computer systems could be infiltrated by hackers or other intruders. We can provide no assurances that these safeguards will prevent all unauthorized infiltrations. Identity theft, successful unauthorized intrusions, and similar unauthorized conduct could result in reputational damage and financial losses to the Company. See ”Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Changes in economic and political conditions could adversely affect the Company’s earnings, as the Company’s borrowers’ ability to repay loans and the value of the collateral securing the Company’s loans decline. The Company’s success depends, to a certain extent, upon economic and political conditions, local and national, as well as governmental monetary policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates, money supply and other factors beyond the Company’s control may adversely affect the Company’s asset quality, deposit levels and loan demand and, therefore, the Company’s earnings. Because the Company has a significant amount of real estate loans, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral. Among other things, adverse changes in the economy, including but not limited to the current economic downturn, may also have a negative effect on the ability of the Company’s borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on the Company’s earnings. In addition, the vast majority of the Company’s loans are to individuals and businesses in the Company’s market area. Consequently, any economic decline in the Company’s market area could have an adverse impact on the Company’s earnings. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s earnings depend substantially on the Company’s interest rate spread, which is the difference between (i) the rates we earn on loans, securities and other earning assets, and (ii) the interest rates we pay on deposits and other borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. As market interest rates rise, we will have competitive pressures to increase the rates we pay on deposits, which may result in a decrease of the Company’s net interest income. Conversely, if interest rates fall, yields on loans and investments may fall. Because a significant portion of the Company’s deposit portfolio is in non-interest bearing accounts, such a decrease in rates would likely result in a decrease in the Company’s net interest income. Although the Bank continues to monitor its interest rate risk exposure and has undertaken additional analyses and implemented additional controls to improve its core earnings from interest income, the Bank can provide no assurance that its efforts will appropriately protect the Bank in the future from interest rate risk exposure. For additional information, see Part II, Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” 60 Table of Contents The Company operates in a highly regulated environment, and changes in laws and regulations to which we are subject may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company and the Bank operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC, the FDIC, the Bureau, and the Federal Reserve. As of July 21, 2011, the Company has been supervised by the Federal Reserve, and the Bank has been supervised by the OCC and the FDIC. See Item 1 “Business – Regulation” herein. In addition, the Company and the Bank are subject to regulations promulgated by the Bureau. Applicable laws and regulations may change and the enforcement of existing laws and regulations may vary when actions are evaluated by these new regulators, and there is no assurance that such changes will not adversely affect the Company’s business. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including but not limited to the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution’s allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of restrictions on activities, regulatory policy, regulations, legislation, or the evaluation of the Bank’s and the Company’s efforts with respect to achieving compliance with the Consent Orders, could have a material impact on the Company’s operations. It is unknown at this time to what extent new legislation will be passed into law or pending or new regulatory proposals will be adopted, or the effect that such passage or adoption will have on the banking industry or the Company. Changes in technology could be costly. The banking industry is undergoing technological innovation at a fast pace. To keep up with its competition, the Company needs to stay abreast of innovations and evaluate those technologies that will enable it to compete on a cost-effective basis. This is especially true with respect to MPS. The cost of such technology, including personnel, has been high in both absolute and relative terms and additional funds continue to be used to enhance existing management information systems. There can be no assurance, given the fast pace of change and innovation, that the Company’s technology, either purchased or developed internally, will meet or continue to meet the needs of the Company. Risks Related to the Company’s Business The entry into the Consent Orders has imposed certain restrictions and requirements upon the Company and the Bank and we cannot predict the possibility of future regulatory action. Satisfaction of the requirements of the Orders is subject to the ongoing review and supervision of the OCC with respect to the Bank and the Federal Reserve with respect to the Company. The Bank and the Company have and expect to continue to expend significant management and financial resources to address areas that were cited in the Orders; such matters include but are not limited to capital preservation and enhancement commensurate with the Bank’s risk profile, improvement of core earnings from interest income, management and board oversight of the Bank, risk management and internal controls, compliance management, and Bank Secrecy Act compliance. There can be no assurance that our regulators will ultimately determine that we have met all of the requirements of the Orders to their satisfaction. If our regulators believe that we have not made sufficient progress in complying with the Orders, they could seek to impose additional regulatory requirements, operational restrictions, enhanced supervision and/or civil money penalties. If any of these measures is imposed in the future, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and on our ability to raise additional capital. For additional information regarding compliance with the Orders, see “Risk Factors – Risks Related to the Company’s Business.” For additional information with respect to certain risks related to the MPS division specifically, see “Risk Factors – Risks Related to Meta Payment Systems, a division of the Bank.” 61 Table of Contents The compliance obligations and restrictions on our interest payments and dividends under the OTS Consent Orders may have an adverse effect on us and preclude payments to holders of our securities. Among other things, the Consent Orders require the Company and Bank to submit to the OCC or the Federal Reserve, as appropriate, various management and compliance plans and programs to address the matters initially identified in the OTS supervisory directives as well as plans for enhancing Company and Bank capital, and require OTS non-objection for Company cash dividends, distributions, share repurchases, payments of interest or principal on debt and incurrence of debt. As indicated, satisfaction of the requirements of the Orders is subject to the ongoing review and supervision of our regulators. There can be no assurance our regulators will ultimately determine that we have met all of the requirements of the Orders to their satisfaction or that we will continue to receive non-objection to our payment of dividends and interest or any other activity for which non-objection or approval is required. Additional resources, both economic and in terms of personnel, will continue to be expended by the Company and the Bank in their endeavors to achieve compliance. See “Business – Regulation – Bank Supervision and Regulation – OTS Consent Orders and Related Matters” which is included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The OCC and Federal Reserve are our primary banking regulators and we may not be able to comply with applicable banking regulations and the terms of the Consent Orders to their satisfaction. Our regulators have broad discretionary powers to enforce banking laws and regulations and may seek to take informal or formal supervisory action if they deem such actions are necessary or required or if they believe that our efforts with respect to the Consent Orders are insufficient. If imposed in the future, corrective steps could result in additional regulatory requirements, operational restrictions, enhanced supervision and/or civil money penalties. Additional resources, both economic and in terms of personnel, will continue to be expended by the Company and the Bank in their endeavors to achieve full compliance. Contracts with third-parties, some of which are material to the Company, may not be renewed, may be renegotiated on terms that are not as favorable, may not be fulfilled or could be subject to cancellation by regulatory authorities. The Bank has entered into numerous contracts with third parties with respect to the operations of its business. In some instances, the third parties provide services to the Bank and MPS; in other instances, the Bank and MPS provides products and services to such third parties. Were such agreements not to be renewed by the third party or were such agreements to be renewed on terms less favorable, such actions could have an adverse material impact on the Bank, its MPS division, and, ultimately, the Company. Similarly, were one of these parties unable to meet their obligations to us for any reason (including but not limited to bankruptcy, computer or other technological interruptions or failures, personnel loss or acts of God), we may need to seek alternative service providers. We may not be able to secure alternate service providers, and even if we do, the terms with such alternate providers may not be as favorable as those currently in place. In addition, were we to lose any of our important third service providers, it could cause a material disruption in our own ability to service our customers, which also could have an adverse material impact on the Bank, its MPS division, and ultimately the Company. Moreover, were the disruptions in our ability to provide services significant, this could negatively affect the perception of our business, which could result in a loss of confidence and other adverse effects on our business. 62 Table of Contents We are currently in negotiations for a five year agreement with our existing third party service provider whose data processing operations are important to us; the agreement is expected to cover core processing services for transaction and item processing needs. Our current contract with this third party expires on February 28, 2014, and we were recently informed that the service provider has requested significant monetary compensation that we are disputing in its entirety. We can offer no assurance that current contract negotiations will result in a contract for services past that date. If we are unable to reach agreement, we could be subject to the consequences described above. For a discussion of the monetary compensation being requested by such service provider, see the “Legal Proceedings” disclosure contained in Note 15 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which is included in Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, as described earlier, in the Consent Orders, our regulator noted deficiencies with respect to these third party relationships. As a result, we review our auditing program for third parties with whom we contract (as well as other business changes required both by the Consent Orders and general business practices) and have made certain business decisions related to determinations reached by our auditing personnel. The OCC is evaluating our progress at this time. If we are unsuccessful in the development and/or implementation of our third party auditing program, it is possible that the OCC could order us to abrogate certain contracts or take other supervisory actions against us which would further impact the MPS business and could have an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. See “Business Regulation – Bank Supervision and Regulation - OTS Consent Orders and Related Matters” which is included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company has identified a material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting, and if the Company fails to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, it may not be able to accurately report the Company’s financial results or prevent fraud, and, as a result, investors and depositors could lose confidence in the Company’s financial reporting, which could adversely affect the Company’s business, the trading price of the Company’s stock and the Company’s ability to attract additional deposits. In recent years, the Company has been required to include in its annual reports filed with the SEC a report of the Company’s management regarding internal control over financial reporting. We have documented and evaluated the Company’s internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and SEC rules and regulations, which require an annual management report on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, including, among other matters, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. In order to comply with this requirement, management retained outside consultants to assist the Company in (i) assessing and documenting the adequacy of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, (ii) improving control processes, where appropriate, and (iii) verifying through testing or other means that controls are functioning as documented. Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting is contained in Item 9A below. Management has determined that a material weakness in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting existed as of September 30, 2013. Specifically, management determined that deficiencies existed in the Company’s controls over fair value measurements of certain investment securities. A detailed description of this weakness and the Company’s remediation efforts is provided in Item 9A below. If the Company fails to correct the material weakness mentioned above, or fails to identify and correct any additional significant deficiencies in the design or operating effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting or fails to prevent fraud, current and potential stockholders and depositors could lose confidence in the Company’s financial reporting, which could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, the trading price of the Company’s stock, and the Company’s ability to attract additional deposits. 63 Table of Contents The Company operates in an extremely competitive market, and the Company’s business will suffer if it is unable to compete effectively. The Company encounters significant competition in the Company’s market area from other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market mutual funds and other financial intermediaries. Many of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits and may offer services that the Company does not or cannot provide. The Company’s profitability depends upon the Company’s continued ability to compete successfully in the Company’s market area. MPS operates on a national scale against competitors with substantially greater resources and limited barriers to entry, as well as the fact that most competitors are not operating under restrictions similar to those imposed upon the Company and the Bank in the Consent Orders. The success of MPS depends upon the Company’s and the Bank’s ability to satisfy the requirements set forth in their respective Consent Orders and the MPS division’s ability to compete in such an environment. The Bank is “well-capitalized” under existing bank regulations, but failure to maintain this designation could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity and results of operations. In addition, our regulator could limit our ability to raise deposits, which could produce serious adverse consequences for our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. By letter dated December 28, 2010, the OTS directed the Bank not to increase the amount of brokered deposits from the amount it held at December 28, 2010 without the prior written non-objection of the OTS Regional Director. The Bank believes it did not hold any brokered deposits on December 28, 2010 or thereafter and so informed OTS of its position. Consequently, the Bank does not anticipate seeking such approval. At the direction of the OTS, the Bank requested the FDIC to confirm that deposits related to a specific prepaid program were not brokered deposits. The Bank tendered its request to the FDIC in December 2010. At the time the directive was issued, OTS staff stated that it would not seek retroactively to enforce the directive for any growth that occurs subsequent to December 28, 2010, given the Bank’s request to the FDIC. Thereafter, the Bank was advised that the FDIC would consider the Bank’s request in the context of its now completed broader industry study of brokered deposits in general, but to date has been given no instruction to change its position. By letter dated October 11, 2013, the Bank was advised by OCC that the directive issued on December 28, 2010 had been terminated. Under current rules, if a substantial portion of the Bank’s deposits are ruled to be “brokered,” and should the Bank’s primary federal regulator decide to impose a formal individual minimum capital requirement or similar formal requirement on the Bank notwithstanding that the Bank is well-capitalized, or should the Bank fail to be well-capitalized in the future, the Bank would be prohibited, absent waiver from the FDIC, from utilizing brokered deposits. In such event, unless the Bank receives relief from its regulator or a waiver from the FDIC, such a result could produce serious adverse consequences for the Bank from a liquidity standpoint and could also have serious adverse effects on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 64 Table of Contents We derive a significant percentage of our deposits, total assets and income from deposit accounts that we generate through MPS’s customer relationships. We derive a significant percentage of our deposits, total assets and income from deposit accounts we generate through customer relationships between such third parties and MPS. Deposits related to our top three customers (each, a significant customer) totaled $489.0 million at September 30, 2013. We provide oversight and auditing of such third-party relationships and all such relationships must meet all internal and regulatory requirements. We may exit these relationships if such requirements are not met or if required to do so by our regulators. We perform liquidity reporting and planning daily and identify and monitor contingent sources of liquidity, such as National CDs, Fed Fund Lines, or Public Fund CDs. If one of these significant customers were to be terminated, over a period of time, it could materially reduce our deposits, assets and income. In addition, pursuant to the Bank’s Consent Order, if one of these relationships were to terminate before the termination of the Consent Order, we would not be able to replace such relationship without first identifying a new contracting party and then obtaining approval to enter into such agreement from the OCC. If such significant customer was not replaced, we may be required to seek higher rate funding sources as compared to the existing customer and interest expense might increase. We may also be required to sell securities or other assets which would reduce revenues and potentially generate losses. Our business strategy is utilized by other institutions with which we compete and the Consent Orders prevent us from actively marketing the Bank’s products and services. Several banking institutions have adopted business goals that are similar to ours, particularly with respect to the MPS division. As a consequence, we have encountered competition in this area and anticipate that we will continue to do so in the future. This competition may increase our costs, reduce our revenues or revenue growth, or make it difficult for us to compete effectively in obtaining additional customer relationships. In addition, pursuant to the Consent Orders, we are not allowed to enter into or materially amend certain agreements, originate certain loans, or offer certain services unless we are granted specific permission to do so, or until the terms of the Consent Orders are rescinded. As a result, until the terms of the Consent Orders are lifted, we are at a competitive disadvantage with respect to growing the Bank’s MPS division. See “Business Regulation – Bank Supervision and Regulation - OTS Consent Orders and Related Matters” which is included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. New lines of business or new products and services may subject us to additional risks. From time to time, to the extent permitted under the terms of the Consent Orders, we may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. Substantial risks and uncertainties are associated with developing and marketing new lines of business or new products or services, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed, and we may be required to invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could reduce our revenues and potentially generate losses. Existing insurance policies may not adequately protect the Company and its subsidiaries. Fidelity, business interruption and property insurance policies are in place with respect to the operations of the Company. Should any event triggering such policies occur, however, it is possible that our policies would not fully reimburse us for the losses we could sustain due to deductible limits, policy limits, coverage limits or other factors. 65 Table of Contents The loss of key members of the Company’s senior management team could adversely affect the Company’s business. We believe that the Company’s success depends largely on the efforts and abilities of the Company’s senior management. Their experience and industry contacts significantly benefit us. The competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry is intense, and the loss of any of the Company’s key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company’s loan portfolio includes loans with a higher risk of loss. The Company originates commercial mortgage loans, commercial loans, consumer loans, agricultural real estate loans, agricultural loans and residential mortgage loans. Commercial mortgage, commercial, consumer, agricultural real estate and agricultural loans may expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans may not be sold as easily as residential real estate. These loans also have greater credit risk than residential real estate for the following reasons: · Commercial Mortgage Loans. Repayment is dependent upon income being generated in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. · Commercial Loans. Repayment is dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower’s business. · Consumer Loans. Consumer loans (such as personal lines of credit) are collateralized, if at all, with assets that may not provide an adequate source of payment of the loan due to depreciation, damage, or loss. · Agricultural Loans. Repayment is dependent upon the successful operation of the business, which is greatly dependent on many things outside the control of either the Bank or the borrowers. These factors include weather, commodity prices, and interest rates, among others. If the Company’s actual loan losses exceed the Company’s allowance for loan losses, the Company’s net income will decrease. The Company makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of the Company’s loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of the Company’s borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of the Company’s loans. Despite the Company’s underwriting and monitoring practices, the Company’s loan customers may not repay their loans according to their terms, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. The Company may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on its operating results. Because the Company must use assumptions regarding individual loans and the economy, the current allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and increases in the allowance may be necessary. The Company may need to significantly increase the Company’s provision for losses on loans if one or more of the Company’s larger loans or credit relationships becomes impaired or if we continue to expand the Company’s commercial real estate and commercial lending. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review the Company’s allowance for loan losses and may require the Company to increase the Company’s provision for loan losses or recognize loan charge-offs. Material additions to the Company’s allowance would materially decrease the Company’s net income. The Company cannot assure you that its monitoring procedures and policies will reduce certain lending risks or that the Company’s allowance for loan losses will be adequate to cover actual losses. 66 Table of Contents If the Company forecloses on and takes ownership of real estate collateral property, it may be subject to the increased costs associated with the ownership of real property, resulting in reduced revenues. The Company may have to foreclose on collateral property to protect its investment and may thereafter own and operate such property. In such case, the Company will be exposed to the risks inherent in the ownership of real estate. The amount that the Company, as a mortgagee, may realize after a default is dependent upon factors outside of the Company’s control, including, but not limited to: (i) general or local economic conditions; (ii) neighborhood values; (iii) interest rates; (iv) real estate tax rates; (v) operating expenses of the mortgaged properties; (vi) supply of and demand for rental units or properties; (vii) ability to obtain and maintain adequate occupancy of the properties; (viii) zoning laws; (ix) governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies; and (x) acts of God. Certain expenditures associated with the ownership of real estate, principally real estate taxes and maintenance costs, may adversely affect the income from the real estate. Therefore, the cost of operating a real property may exceed the rental income earned from such property, and the Company may have to advance funds in order to protect the Company’s investment, or may be required to dispose of the real property at a loss. The foregoing expenditures and costs could adversely affect the Company’s ability to generate revenues, resulting in reduced levels of profitability. Our agricultural loans are subject to factors beyond the Company’s control. The agricultural community is subject to commodity price fluctuations. Although our agricultural loans are a relatively limited part of our overall portfolio, extended periods of low commodity prices, higher input costs, or poor weather conditions could result in reduced profit margins, reducing demand for goods and services provided by agriculture-related businesses, which in turn, could affect other businesses in the Company’s market area. Environmental liability associated with commercial lending could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In the course of the Company’s business, it may acquire, through foreclosure, commercial properties securing loans that are in default. There is a risk that hazardous substances could be discovered on those properties. In this event, the Company could be required to remove the substances from and remediate the properties at its own cost and expense. The cost of removal and environmental remediation could be substantial. The Company may not have adequate remedies against the owners of the properties or other responsible parties and could find it difficult or impossible to sell the affected properties. These events could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and operating results. Our framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to us. Our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss to us. We have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the types of risk to which we are subject, including liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, legal and compliance risk, and reputational risk, among others. However, as with any risk management framework, there are inherent limitations to our risk management strategies as there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that we have not appropriately anticipated or identified. For example, the recent financial and credit crisis and resulting regulatory reform highlighted both the importance and certain limitations of managing unanticipated risks. If our risk management framework proves ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 67 Table of Contents A breach of information security or compliance breach by one of the Company’s agents or vendors could negatively affect the Company’s reputation and business. The Company depends on data processing, communication and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks and over the internet. Despite safeguards, no system, including ours, is entirely free from vulnerability to attack. Additionally, the Company relies on and does business with a variety of third-party service providers, agents and vendors with respect to the Company’s business, data and communications needs. If information security is breached, or one of the Company’s agents or vendors breaches compliance procedures, information could be lost or misappropriated, resulting in financial loss or costs to the Company or damages to others. These costs or losses could materially exceed the Company’s amount of insurance coverage, if any, which would adversely affect the Company’s business. Changes in accounting policies or accounting standards, or changes in how accounting standards are interpreted or applied, could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. Our accounting policies are fundamental to determining and understanding our financial results and condition. Some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets or liabilities and financial results. Any changes in our accounting policies could materially affect our financial statements. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. In addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards (such as the FASB, the SEC, banking regulators and our outside auditors) may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. Changes in financial accounting and reporting standards and changes in current interpretations may be beyond our control, can be difficult to predict and could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. We may be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively or apply an existing standard differently and retroactively, which may result in the Company being required to restate prior period financial statements in material amounts. Risks Related to the Company’s Stock The price of the Company’s common stock may be volatile, which may result in losses for investors. The market price for shares of the Company’s common stock has been volatile in the past, and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future. These factors include: · announcements of developments related to the Company’s business, · fluctuations in the Company’s results of operations, · sales of substantial amounts of the Company’s securities into the marketplace, · general conditions in the Company’s banking niche or the worldwide economy, · a shortfall in revenues or earnings compared to securities analysts’ expectations, · lack of an active trading market for the common stock, 68 Table of Contents · changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections, · the Company’s announcement of new acquisitions or other projects, and · negative evaluation by our regulators of our compliance with our Orders. The market price of the Company’s common stock may fluctuate significantly in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to the Company’s performance. General market price declines or market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of the Company’s common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. An investment in Company common stock is not an insured deposit. Our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and is subject to market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you hold or acquire our common stock, it is possible that you may lose all or a portion of your investment. The Company’s common stock is thinly traded, and thus your ability to sell shares or purchase additional shares of the Company’s common stock will be limited, and the market price at any time may not reflect true value. Your ability to sell shares of the Company’s common stock or purchase additional shares largely depends upon the existence of an active market for the common stock. The Company’s common stock is quoted on NASDAQ Global Market, but the volume of trades on any given day is light, and you may be unable to find a buyer for shares you wish to sell or a seller of additional shares you wish to purchase. In addition, a fair valuation of the purchase or sales price of a share of common stock also depends upon active trading, and thus the price you receive for a thinly traded stock, such as the Company’s common stock, may not reflect its true value. Future sales or additional issuances of the Company’s capital stock may depress prices of shares of the Company’s common stock or otherwise dilute the book value of shares then outstanding. Sales of a substantial amount of the Company’s capital stock in the public market or the issuance of a significant number of shares could adversely affect the market price for shares of the Company’s common stock. As of September 30, 2013, the Company was authorized to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 6,070,654 shares were outstanding, and 62,090 shares were held as treasury stock. The Company was also authorized to issue up to 3,000,000 shares of preferred stock, none of which is outstanding or reserved for issuance. This factor may affect the market price for shares of the Company’s common stock. Federal regulations may inhibit a takeover, prevent a transaction you may favor or limit the Company’s growth opportunities, which could cause the market price of the Company’s common stock to decline. Certain provisions of the Company’s charter documents and federal regulations could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of the Company. In addition, the Company must obtain approval from regulatory authorities before it can acquire control of any other company. 69 Table of Contents The Company may not be able to pay dividends in the future in accordance with past practice. The Company pays a quarterly dividend to stockholders. The payment of dividends is subject to legal and regulatory restrictions as well as a requirement for prior approval by the Federal Reserve pursuant to the Consent Orders. Any payment of dividends in the future will depend, in large part, on the Company’s earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, regulatory review, and other factors considered relevant by the Company’s Board of Directors. Risks Related to Meta Payment Systems®, a division of the Bank MPS’ products and services are highly regulated financial products subject to extensive supervision and regulation and are costly to maintain. The products and services offered by MPS are highly regulated by federal banking agencies, the Bureau, state banking agencies, and other federal and state regulators. Some of the laws and related regulations affecting its operations include consumer protection laws, escheat laws, privacy laws, anti‑money laundering laws and data protection laws. Compliance with the relevant legal paradigm in which the division operates is costly and requires significant personnel resources, as well as extensive contacts with outside lawyers and consultants hired by MPS to stay abreast of the applicable regulatory schemes. In addition, Bank talent and resources have been diverted since the signing of the Consent Order in an effort to achieve compliance with certain components of the Consent Order that involve the operations of MPS. Areas the Bank must continue to address include, but are not limited to, ongoing oversight of MPS by the board and management. Efforts to satisfy the requirements of the Bank’s Consent Order continue to be costly, both in economic terms and in terms of personnel resources. As described elsewhere herein, satisfaction of the requirements of the Bank’s Consent Order is subject to the ongoing review of its regulator and there can be no assurance that the Bank will fully satisfy such requirements. If our regulators believe that the Company or the Bank has not made sufficient progress in satisfying the requirements of the Consent Orders, such regulators could take further supervisory action against the Bank or the Company. If taken, such actions could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of the MPS division segment, the Bank, and the Company and limit our ability to raise additional capital. The Dodd-Frank Act’s restrictions with respect to the cap on debit card interchange could negatively affect the Bank’s business. On June 29, 2011, the Federal Reserve issued a rule establishing standards for debit card interchange fees and prohibiting network exclusivity arrangements and routing restrictions (the “Debit Card Rule”). The issuance of the Debit Card Rule was required by the Dodd-Frank Act. Pursuant to the Debit Card Rule, the maximum permissible interchange fee that an issuer may receive for an electronic debit transaction is $0.21 per transaction and five basis points multiplied by the value of the transaction. The Federal Reserve also approved an interim final rule that allows for an upward adjustment of no more than $0.01 to an issuer’s debit card interchange fee if the issuer develops and implements policies and procedures reasonably designed to achieve the fraud-prevention standards set out in the interim final rule. Eligibility for the assessment of this fee must be certified by the issuing bank. As set forth in the issuing release, when the maximum interchange fee is combined with fraud-prevention assessment, an issuing bank could receive an interchange fee of up to approximately 24 cents for the average debit card transaction, which is valued at $38 according to the Federal Reserve. In accordance with the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, issuers that, together with their affiliates, have assets of less than $10 billion (like the Bank) are exempt from the debit card interchange fee standards. With respect to network exclusivity and merchant routing restrictions, it is now required that all debit cards participate in at least two unaffiliated networks so that the transactions initiated using those debit cards will have at least two independent routing channels. On July 31, 2013 the United States District Court for the District of Columbia issued a summary judgment in the case of NACS et al v. Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 2013 WL 3943489 (D.D.C.), vacating the fee cap and exclusivity provisions of the rule. The decision has been stayed pending an appeal that has been filed in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. If the District Court opinion is upheld, two additional networks may have to added to each card. The appeal is on an expedited schedule and oral arguments are scheduled for early 2014. 70 Table of Contents While some proposed legislation would benefit MPS, it is possible that new legislation or more stringent focus by banking agencies could further restrict MPS’ current operations or change the regulatory environment in which the division’s customers operate. Although it is possible that some legislation under consideration could have either a positive or de minimis impact on its operations and profitability, it is also possible that any new legislation affecting the operations of MPS or its customers, some of which are also regulated entities, would have a negative impact on the conduct of the relevant business. There is no way to quantify the impact that such changes could have on the profitability or operations of MPS at this time given the unpredictable nature of the risk. In addition to the relevant legal paradigm set forth above, it should also be noted that there has been concern within the bank regulatory environment over the use of credit and, in particular, prepaid cards as a means by which to illegally launder and move money. The U.S. Treasury’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network issued rules related to providers of “prepaid access” which have left certain issues unresolved related to its regulatory requirements. Moreover, the Bureau held a “town hall” meeting on prepaid products in Raleigh, North Carolina in May 2012 to hear testimony from witnesses who provided their views on prepaid products and to issue an advanced notice of proposed rulemaking, which permitted the public to comment on issues related to the prepaid market. As of the date of this filing, the Bureau has not issued any additional proposed or final rules related to MPS and the products and services it offers; however, given that additional regulation appears likely in this area, it is also likely that our costs related to compliance will increase when such regulations are finalized. Although the Bank will continue to work with its regulators to provide information about its operations as well as the state of the prepaid card industry, we believe such concerns in general will continue for the foreseeable future for the entire banking industry, with a continued emphasis on heightened compliance expectations, resulting in higher compliance costs. See “Business Regulation – Bank Supervision and Regulation” which is included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. MPS, through the Bank, owns or is seeking a number of patents, trademarks and other forms of intellectual property with respect to the operation of its business and the protection of such intellectual property may in the future require material expenditures. In its operations, MPS, through the Bank, is seeking protection for various forms of intellectual property. No assurance can be given that such protection will be granted. In addition, given the competitive market environment of its business, the Bank must be vigilant in ensuring that its patents and other intellectual property are protected and not exploited by unlicensed third parties. The Bank must also protect itself and defend against intellectual property challenges initiated by third parties making various claims against MPS. With respect to these claims, regardless of whether we are pursuing our claims against perceived infringers or defending our intellectual property from third parties asserting various claims of infringement, it is possible that significant personnel time and monetary resources could be used to pursue or defend such claims. 71 Table of Contents It should also be noted that intellectual property risks extend to foreign countries whose protections of such property are not as extensive as those in the United States. As such, MPS may need to spend additional sums to ensure that its intellectual property protections are maximized globally. Moreover, should there be a material, improper use of the Bank’s intellectual property, this could have an impact on the division’s operations. Costs of conforming products and services to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards (the “PCI DSS”) are costly and could continue to affect the operations of MPS. The PCI DSS is a multifaceted standard that includes data security management, policies and procedures as well as other protective measures, that was created by the largest credit card associations in the world in an effort to protect the nonpublic personal information of all types of cardholders, including prepaid cardholders and holders of network branded credit cards (such as Discover, MasterCard, and Visa). The PCI DSS mandates a prescribed technical foundation for the collection, storage and transmission of cardholder data and also contains significant provisions regarding the testing of security protections by various entities in the payment card industry, including MPS. Compliance with the PCI DSS is costly and changes to the standards could have an equal, or greater, effect on profitability of the relevant business division. The potential for fraud in the card payment industry is significant. Issuers of prepaid and credit cards have suffered significant losses in recent years with respect to the theft of cardholder data that has been illegally exploited for personal gain. The theft of such information is regularly reported and affects not only individuals but businesses as well (albeit to a lesser degree). Many types of credit card fraud exist, including the counterfeiting of cards and “skimming.” “Skimming” is the term for a specialized type of credit card information theft whereby, typically, an employee of a merchant will copy the cardholder’s number and security code (either by handwriting the information onto a piece of paper, entering such information into a keypad or other device, or using a handheld device which “reads” and then stores the card information embedded in the magnetic strip). Once a credit card number and security code has been skimmed, the skimmer can use such information for purchases until the unauthorized use is detected either by the cardholder or the card issuer. Losses from fraud have been substantial for certain card industry participants. Although fraud has not had a material impact on the profitability of the Bank, it is possible that such activity could impact this division at some time in the future. Part of our business depends on sales agents who do not sell our products exclusively. Our business model, to some degree, depends upon the use of sales agents who are not our employees. These agents sell the products and services of many different processors to merchants and other parties in need of card services. Failure to maintain good relations with such sales agents could have a negative impact on our business. In addition, new third party relationships have been restricted absent prior approval of the OCC. See “Business Regulation - Bank Supervision and Regulation – OTS Consent Orders and Related Matters” which is included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 72 Table of Contents Products and services offered by MPS involve many business parties and the possibility of collusion exists. As described above, the theft of cardholder data is a significant threat in the industry in which MPS operates. This threat also includes the possibility that there is collusion between certain participants in the card system to act illegally. Although MPS is not aware of any instances to date, it is possible that such activities could occur in the future, thereby impacting its operation and profitability. Competition in the card industry is significant. In order to maintain an edge to its products and offerings, MPS must invest significantly in technology and research and development. The heavy emphasis upon technology in the products and services offered by MPS requires significant expenditures with respect to research and development both to exploit technological gains and to develop new products and services to meet customers’ needs. As is common with most research and development, while some efforts may yield substantial benefits for the division, others will not, thereby resulting in expenditures for which profits will not be realized. MPS is not able to predict with any degree of certainty as to the level of research and development that will be required in the future, how much those efforts will cost, or how profitable such developments will be for the division once undertaken. Our business could suffer if there is a decline in the use of prepaid cards or there are adverse developments with respect to the prepaid financial services industry in general. As the prepaid financial services industry evolves, consumers may find prepaid financial services to be less attractive than other financial services. Consumers might not use prepaid financial services for any number of reasons. For example, negative publicity surrounding other prepaid financial service providers could impact MPS’ business and prospects for growth to the extent it adversely impacts the perception of prepaid financial services. If consumers do not continue or increase their usage of prepaid cards, MPS’ operating revenues may remain at current levels or decline. Growth of prepaid financial services as an electronic payment mechanism may not occur or may occur more slowly than estimated. If there is a shift in the mix of payment forms used by consumers (i.e., cash, credit cards, traditional debit cards and prepaid cards) away from products and services offered by MPS, such a shift could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Bureau is closely monitoring developments in the prepaid card industry and it is possible that future regulation by the Bureau, whether by rule or administrative action, could adversely affect our business. Discover, MasterCard, and Visa, as well as other electronic funds networks in which MPS operates, could change their rules. Pursuant to the agreements between MPS and Discover, MasterCard, Visa and other card networks, these third parties typically have retained the right to prescribe certain business practices and procedures with respect to parties such as MPS. Such prescribed terms include, but are not limited to, a contracting party’s level of capital as well as other business requirements. Discover, MasterCard, and Visa also retain the right in their agreements with industry participants such as MPS to unilaterally change the rules under which such transactions are processed with little or no advance warning. This power includes the power to prevent MPS from accessing their networks in order to process transactions. Should any third party choose to invoke this right unilaterally, such changes could materially impact the operations of MPS. 73 Table of Contents Our business is heavily dependent upon the Internet and any negative disruptions to its operation could negatively impact our business. Much of our business depends upon transactions being processed through the Internet. Like nearly all other commercial enterprises, we rely upon others to provide the Internet so that commerce can be conducted. Were there to be a failure in the operation of the Internet or a significant impairment in our ability to move information on the Internet or our ability to do so in accordance with customer safeguard protocols, MPS would develop alternative processes during which time revenues and profitability may be lower. Our ability to process transactions requires functioning communication and electricity lines. The nature of the credit card and debit card industry is that it must be operational every day of the week every hour of the week. Any disruption in the utilities utilized by MPS could have a negative effect on our operations and extensive disruptions could materially affect our operations. Data encryption technology has not been perfected and vigilance in MPS’ information technology systems is costly. MPS holds sensitive business and personal information with respect to the products and services it offers. This information, which is generally digitally encrypted, is passed along various technology channels, including the Internet. Although MPS encrypts its customer and other sensitive information and expends significant financial and personnel resources to maintain the integrity of its technology networks and the confidentiality of nonpublic customer information, because such information may travel on public technology and other non-secure channels, the confidential information is potentially susceptible to hacking and other illegal intrusions. Were such a security breach to occur, the provision of products and services to customers of MPS would be impaired. In addition, were a breach to occur, we could incur significant fines from the electronic funds associations involved, or from federal and/or state regulators, and be subject to other prohibitions, as well as extensive litigation from commercial parties and consumers affected by such breach. Unclaimed funds represented by unused value on the cards presents compliance and other risks. The concept of escheatment involves the reporting and delivery of property to states that is abandoned and its rightful owner cannot be readily located and/or identified. In the context of prepaid cards, the funds in connection with such cards can sometimes be “abandoned” or unused for the relevant period of time set forth in each applicable state’s abandoned property laws. Although MPS utilizes automated programs to ensure its operations are compliant with such applicable laws and regulations, there appears to be a movement among some state regulators to interpret definitions in those statutes and regulations in a manner that is different from standard industry interpretations. Should such state regulators choose to do so, they may initiate collection or other litigation action against prepaid card issuers such as MPS for unreported abandoned property. MPS operates in a highly competitive environment and the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel may be difficult. MPS competes in a highly competitive environment with other larger and better capitalized financial intermediaries. In addition, the field of professionals involved in the design and production of products and services offered by MPS is highly skilled and actively sought after by financial institutions, electronic card networks and other commercial entities. As such, MPS must spend significant sums to attract employees and executives and must monitor compensation and other employment trends to ensure that compensation packages both foster the necessary creative environment and appropriately compensate such individuals in order to retain them. 74 Table of Contents MPS Revenue Concentration. MPS works with a large number of business partners to derive its revenue. The Company believes three of its partners have reached a size that, should these partners’ business with the Company end or there is a significant decrease in revenues associated with any of these business relationships, the earnings attributable to them would have a material effect on the financial results of the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 