Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results include those described below as well as other risks and factors identified from time to time in our SEC filings. The Company’s business could be harmed by any of the risks noted below. The trading price of the Company’s common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, including the Company’s financial statements and related notes. Risks Related to the Banking Industry Changes in economic and political conditions could adversely affect the Company’s earnings, as the Company’s borrowers’ ability to repay loans and the value of the collateral securing the Company’s loans decline. The Company’s success depends, to a certain extent, upon economic and political conditions, local and national, as well as governmental monetary policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates, money supply and other factors beyond the Company’s control may adversely affect the Company’s asset quality, deposit levels and loan demand and, therefore, the Company’s earnings. Because the Company has a significant amount of real estate loans, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral. Among other things, adverse 45 Table of Contents changes in the economy, including but not limited to the current economic downturn, may also have a negative effect on the ability of the Company’s borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on the Company’s earnings. In addition, the vast majority of the Company’s loans are to individuals and businesses in the Company’s market area. Consequently, any economic decline in the Company’s market area could have an adverse impact on the Company’s earnings. Recessionary environment may adversely impact the Company’s earnings and new governmental initiatives may not prove effective. Recently, there seems to be widespread agreement that the U.S., and perhaps the world economy in general, has entered a period of recession. As described above, a recession may have an adverse impact on the Company’s revenues and income, both in the banking and MPS segments. Further, passage of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and the implementation thereof by the US Treasury and the federal banking agencies may not prove effective enough to blunt the effect of the downturn in the economy. See “Regulation” herein. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s earnings depend substantially on the Company’s interest rate spread, which is the difference between (i) the rates we earn on loans, securities and other earning assets, and (ii) the interest rates we pay on deposits and other borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. As market interest rates rise, we will have competitive pressures to increase the rates we pay on deposits, which may result in a decrease of the Company’s net interest income. Conversely, if interest rates fall, yields on loans and investments may fall. Because a significant portion of the Company’s deposit portfolio is in non-interest bearing accounts, such a change in rates would likely result in a decrease in the Company’s net interest income. For additional information, see Item 7A, herein. The Company operates in a highly regulated environment, and changes in laws and regulations to which we are subject may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. MetaBank and the Company operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision (“OTS”) and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”). See “Business – Regulation” herein. Applicable laws and regulations may change, and there is no assurance that such changes will not adversely affect the Company’s business. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution may engage including the activities of MetaBank’s Meta Payment Systems Division, and are intended primarily for the protection of MetaBank and their depositors. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including but not limited to the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution’s allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of restrictions on activities, regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, including but not limited to changes in the regulations governing savings banks, could have a material impact on MetaBank and the Company’s operations. 46 Table of Contents Changes in technology could be costly. The banking industry is undergoing technological innovation at a fast pace. To keep up with its competition, the Company needs to stay abreast of innovations and evaluate those technologies that will enable it to compete on a cost-effective basis. This is especially true with respect to MetaBank’s Meta Payment Systems Division. The cost of such technology, including personnel, can be high in both absolute and relative terms. There can be no assurance, given the fast pace of change and innovation, that the Company’s technology, either purchased or developed internally, will meet or continue to meet the needs of the Company. Risks Related to the Company’s Business The Company operates in an extremely competitive market, and the Company’s business will suffer if it is unable to compete effectively. In the Company’s market area, MetaBank encounters significant competition from other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market mutual funds and other financial intermediaries. Many of MetaBanks’ competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits and may offer services that MetaBank does not or cannot provide. The Company’s profitability depends upon the Company’s continued ability to compete successfully in the Company’s market area. The Meta Payment Systems Division operates on a national scale against competitors with substantially greater resources and limited barriers to entry. The Division’s success depends upon its ability to compete in such an environment. The loss of key members of the Company’s senior management team could adversely affect the Company’s business. We believe that the Company’s success depends largely on the efforts and abilities of the Company’s senior management. Their experience and industry contacts significantly benefit us. The competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry is intense, and the loss of any of the Company’s key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company’s loan portfolio includes loans with a higher risk of loss. MetaBank originates commercial mortgage loans, commercial loans, consumer loans, agricultural mortgage loans, agricultural loans and residential mortgage loans primarily within the Company’s market areas. Commercial mortgage, commercial, and consumer loans may expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans may not be sold as easily as residential real estate. These loans also have greater credit risk than residential real estate for the following reasons: · Commercial Mortgage Loans. Repayment is dependent upon income being generated in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. · Commercial Loans. Repayment is dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower’s business. · Consumer Loans. Consumer loans (such as personal lines of credit) are collateralized, if at all, with assets that may not provide an adequate source of payment of the loan due to depreciation, damage, or loss. 47 Table of Contents · Agricultural Loans. Repayment is dependent upon the successful operation of the business, which is greatly dependent on many things outside the control of either the Bank or the borrowers. These factors include weather, commodity prices, and interest rates, among others. · MPS Program Loans. MPS originates consumer loans, in some cases related to anticipated tax refunds that are funded to prepaid cards. For certain of these loans, repayment is based on the customer filing a tax return and the Internal Revenue Service funding the tax refund. If either or both do not occur, losses could result. MPS has loss protection agreements in place with certain business partners in which they will absorb some or all of such losses in the event they were to occur. If the Company’s actual loan losses exceed the Company’s allowance for loan losses, the Company’s net income will decrease. The Company makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of the Company’s loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of the Company’s borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of the Company’s loans. Despite the Company’s underwriting and monitoring practices, the Company’s loan customers may not repay their loans according to their terms, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. The Company may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on its operating results. Because the Company must use assumptions regarding individual loans and the economy, the current allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and increases in the allowance may be necessary. The Company may need to significantly increase the Company’s provision for losses on loans if one or more of the Company’s larger loans or credit relationships becomes delinquent or if we continue to expand the Company’s commercial real estate and commercial lending. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review the Company’s allowance for loan losses and may require the Company to increase the Company’s provision for loan losses or recognize loan charge-offs. Material additions to the Company’s allowance would materially decrease the Company’s net income. The Company cannot assure you that its monitoring procedures and policies will reduce certain lending risks or that the Company’s allowance for loan losses will be adequate to cover actual losses. If the Company forecloses on and takes ownership of real estate collateral property, it may be subject to the increased costs associated with the ownership of real property, resulting in reduced revenues. The Company may have to foreclose on collateral property to protect its investment and may thereafter own and operate such property. In such case, the Company will be exposed to the risks inherent in the ownership of real estate. The amount that the Company, as a mortgagee, may realize after a default is dependent upon factors outside of the Company’s control, including, but not limited to: (i) general or local economic conditions; (ii) neighborhood values; (iii) interest rates; (iv) real estate tax rates; (v) operating expenses of the mortgaged properties; (vi) supply of and demand for rental units or properties; (vii) ability to obtain and maintain adequate occupancy of the properties; (viii) zoning laws; (ix) governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies; and (x) acts of God. Certain expenditures associated with the ownership of real estate, principally real estate taxes and maintenance costs, may adversely affect the income from the real estate. Therefore, the cost of operating a real property may exceed the rental income earned from such property, and the Company may have to advance funds in order to protect the Company’s investment, or may be required to dispose of the real property at a loss. The foregoing expenditures and costs could adversely affect the Company’s ability to generate revenues, resulting in reduced levels of profitability. 48 Table of Contents Environmental liability associated with commercial lending could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In the course of the Company’s business, it may acquire, through foreclosure, commercial properties securing loans that are in default. There is a risk that hazardous substances could be discovered on those properties. In this event, the Company could be required to remove the substances from and remediate the properties at its own cost and expense. The cost of removal and environmental remediation could be substantial. The Company may not have adequate remedies against the owners of the properties or other responsible parties and could find it difficult or impossible to sell the affected properties. These events could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and operating results. If the Company fails to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, it may not be able to accurately report the Company’s financial results or prevent fraud, and, as a result, investors and depositors could lose confidence in the Company’s financial reporting, which could adversely affect the Company’s business, the trading price of the Company’s stock and the Company’s ability to attract additional deposits. Beginning with this annual report on Form 10-K, the Company has to include in its annual reports filed with the SEC a report of the Company’s management regarding internal control over financial reporting. As a result, we began last year to document and evaluate the Company’s internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (or SOA) and SEC rules and regulations, which require an annual management report on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, including, among other matters, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. The SOA also requires an attestation report by the Company’s independent auditors addressing these assessments at the conclusion of our 2009 fiscal year on September 30, 2009. Accordingly, management has retained outside consultants to assist the Company in (i) assessing and documenting the adequacy of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, (ii) improving control processes, where appropriate, and (iii) verifying through material weaknesses or testing that controls are functioning as documented. If the Company fails to identify and correct any significant deficiencies in the design or operating effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting or fails to prevent fraud, current and potential stockholders and depositors could lose confidence in the Company’s financial reporting, which could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, the trading price of the Company’s stock, and the Company’s ability to attract additional deposits. The previously reported two material weaknesses in internal controls from fiscal year 2007 have been corrected and eliminated. No other material weaknesses have been identified in connection with the Company’s fiscal year 2008 audit. If material weaknesses are identified in the future, such weaknesses could have a material impact on the profitability and performance of the Company. The Company’s duties under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 have been increasing and are anticipated to increase further in fiscal 2009. As indicated in a preceding risk fact, pursuant to the requirements of Section 404 of the SOA Act, beginning with this annual report the Company is required to provide an annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Beginning with our next annual report for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2009, Section 404 of the SOA will also require a report by our independent auditors addressing our management’s assessments. These reporting and other obligations have placed, and will increasingly continue to place, significant demands on our management, administrative, operational, internal audit, tax and accounting resources. We are implementing additional 49 Table of Contents financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures and an internal audit function and are hiring additional accounting, internal audit and finance staff. If we are unable to accomplish these objectives in a timely and effective fashion, our ability to comply with our financial reporting requirements and other rules that apply to public companies could be impaired. A breach of information security or compliance breach by one of the Company’s agents or vendors could negatively affect the Company’s reputation and business. MetaBank, including the Meta Payment Systems Division of MetaBank, depends on data processing, communication and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks and over the internet. The Company cannot be certain all of its systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack, despite safeguards it has installed. Additionally, the Company relies on and does business with a variety of third-party service providers, agents and vendors with respect to the Company’s business, data and communications needs. If information security is breached, or one of the Company’s agents or vendors breaches compliance procedures, information could be lost or misappropriated, resulting in financial loss or costs to the Company or damages to others. These costs or losses could materially exceed the Company’s amount of insurance coverage, if any, which would adversely affect the Company’s business. Risks Related to the Company’s Stock The price of the Company’s common stock may be volatile, which may result in losses for investors. The market price for shares of the Company’s common stock has been volatile in the past, and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future. These factors include: · announcements of developments related to the Company’s business, · fluctuations in the Company’s results of operations, · sales of substantial amounts of the Company’s securities into the marketplace, · general conditions in the Company’s banking niche or the worldwide economy, · a shortfall in revenues or earnings compared to securities analysts’ expectations, · lack of an active trading market for the common stock, · changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections, and · The Company’s announcement of new acquisitions or other projects. The market price of the Company’s common stock may fluctuate significantly in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to the Company’s performance. General market price declines or market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of the Company’s common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. The Company’s common stock is thinly traded, and thus your ability to sell shares or purchase additional shares of the Company’s common stock will be limited, and the market price at any time may not reflect true value. Your ability to sell shares of the Company’s common stock or purchase additional shares largely depends upon the existence of an active market for the common stock. The Company’s common stock is quoted on NASDAQ Stock Market, but the volume of trades on any given day is light, and you may be 50 Table of Contents unable to find a buyer for shares you wish to sell or a seller of additional shares you wish to purchase. In addition, a fair valuation of the purchase or sales price of a share of common stock also depends upon active trading, and thus the price you receive for a thinly traded stock, such as the Company’s common stock, may not reflect its true value. Future sales or additional issuances of the Company’s capital stock may depress prices of shares of the Company’s common stock or otherwise dilute the book value of shares then outstanding. Sales of a substantial amount of the Company’s capital stock in the public market or the issuance of a significant number of shares could adversely affect the market price for shares of the Company’s common stock. As of September 30, 2008, the Company was authorized to issue up to 5,200,000 shares of common stock, of which 2,601,103 shares were outstanding, and 356,896 shares were held as treasury stock. The Company was also authorized to issue up to 800,000 shares of preferred stock, none of which is outstanding or reserved for issuance. Accordingly, without further stockholder approval, the Company may issue up to 2,598,897 additional shares of common stock. This factor may affect the market price for shares of the Company’s common stock. Federal regulations may inhibit a takeover, prevent a transaction you may favor or limit the Company’s growth opportunities, which could cause the market price of the Company’s common stock to decline. Certain provisions of the Company’s charter documents and federal regulations could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of the company. In addition, the Company must obtain approval from regulatory authorities before it can acquire control of any other company. The Company may not be able to pay dividends in the future in accordance with past practice. The Company pays a quarterly dividend to stockholders. The payment of dividends is subject to legal and regulatory restrictions. Any payment of dividends in the future will depend, in large part, on MetaBank’s earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors considered relevant by the Company’s Board of Directors. Risks Related to Meta Payment Systems®, a division of MetaBank MPS’ products and services are highly regulated financial products subject to extensive supervision and regulation. The products and services offered by MPS are highly regulated by federal banking agencies, state banking agencies, and other federal and state regulators. Some of the laws and related regulations affecting its operations include consumer protection laws, escheat laws, privacy laws, and data protection laws. Compliance with the relevant legal paradigm in which the division operates is costly and requires significant personnel resources, as well as extensive contacts with outside lawyers and consultants hired by MPS to stay abreast of the applicable regulatory schemes. 51 Table of Contents While some proposed legislation would benefit MPS, it is possible that new legislation could restrict MPS’s current operations or change the regulatory environment in which the division’s customers operate. Although it is possible that some newly enacted legislation could have either a positive or de minimis impact on its operations and profitability it is just as likely that any new legislation affecting the operations of MPS or its customers, some of which are also regulated entities, would have a negative impact on the conduct of the relevant business. There is no way to quantify the impact that such changes could have on the profitability or operations of MPS at this time given the unpredictable nature of the risk. In addition to the relevant legal paradigm set forth above, it should also be noted that there has been concern within the bank regulatory environment over the use of credit and, in particular, prepaid cards as a means by which to illegally launder and move money. Should the regulatory scheme change in any fashion as to alter the current environment by which such products and services may be offered, this could have a significant impact upon MPS’s operations as well as the operations of its customers. MPS, through MetaBank, owns or is seeking a number of patents, trademarks and other forms of intellectual property with respect to the operation of its business and the protection of such intellectual property may in the future require material expenditures. In its operations, MPS, through MetaBank, is seeking protection for various forms of intellectual property. No assurance can be given that such protection will be granted. In addition, the competitive market environment of its business, MPS must be vigilant in ensuring that its patents and other intellectual property are protected and not exploited by unlicensed third parties. MPS must also protect itself and defend against intellectual property challenges initiated by third parties making various claims against MPS. With respect to these claims, regardless of whether we are pursuing our claims against perceived infringers or defending our intellectual property from third parties asserting various claims of infringement, it is possible that significant personnel time and monetary resources could be used to pursue or defend such claims. It should also be noted that intellectual property risks extend to foreign countries whose protections of such property are not as extensive as those in the United States. As such, MPS may need to spend additional sums to ensure that its intellectual property protections are maximized globally. Moreover, should there be a material, improper use of MPS’ intellectual property; this could have an impact on the division’s operations. Contracts with third-parties may not be renewed, may be renegotiated on terms that are not as favorable to MPS or may not be fulfilled. MPS has entered into numerous contracts with third parties with respect to the operations of its business. In some instances, the third parties provide services to MPS; in other instances, MPS provides products and services to such third parties. Were such agreements not to be renewed by the third party or were such agreements to be renewed on terms less favorable to MPS, such actions could have a material impact on the division’s profitability. Similarly, were one of these parties unable to meet their obligations to us for any reason (including but not limited to bankruptcy, computer or other technological interruptions or failures, personnel loss or Acts of God), we may need to seek alternative service providers and the terms with such alternate providers may not be as favorable as those currently in place. In addition, were such failures to 52 Table of Contents cause a material disruption in our ability to service our customers, it is possible that our customer base would shrink. Moreover, were the disruptions in our ability to provide services significant, this could negatively affect the perception of our business in the card industry. International expansion presents unique opportunities and challenges. The international use of cards, both credit and prepaid, continues to grow. Such growth presents MPS with opportunities to acquire market share where its presence has been either minimal or nonexistent. Investments must be made by the division to pursue such opportunities, however, and the return on such investments may either be slow to mature or may fail to materialize completely. In addition, the pursuit of additional foreign opportunities may prevent the division from focusing on its current domestic business. Existing insurance policies may not adequately protect MPS. Business interruption and property insurance policies are in place with respect to the operations of MPS. Should any event triggering such policies occur, however, it is possible that our policies would not fully reimburse us for the losses we could sustain. Costs of conforming products and services to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards (the “PCI DSS”) are costly and could continue to affect the operations of MPS. The PCI DSS is a multifaceted standard that includes data security management, policies and procedures, as well as other protective measures, that was created by the largest credit card associations in the world in an effort to protect the nonpublic personal information of all types of cardholders, including prepaid cardholders and holders of network branded credit cards (such as Discover, MasterCard, and Visa). The PCI DSS mandates a prescribed technical foundation for the collection, storage and transmission of cardholder data and also contains significant provisions regarding the testing of security protections by various entities in the payment card industry, including MPS. Compliance with the PCI DSS is costly and changes to the standards could have an equal, or greater, effect on profitability of the relevant business division. The potential for fraud in the card payment industry is significant. Issuers of prepaid and credit cards have suffered significant losses in recent years with respect to the theft of cardholder data that has been illegally exploited for personal gain. The theft of such information is regularly reported and affects not only individuals but businesses as well (albeit to a lesser degree). Many types of credit card fraud exist, including the counterfeiting of cards and “skimming.” “Skimming” is the term for a specialized type of credit card information theft whereby, typically, an employee of a merchant will copy the cardholder’s number and security code (either by handwriting the information onto a piece of paper, entering such information into a keypad or other device, or using a handheld device which “reads” and then stores the card information embedded in the magnetic strip). Once a credit card number and security code has been skimmed, the skimmer can use such information for purchases until the unauthorized use is detected either by the cardholder or the card issuer. Losses from skimming have been substantial for certain card industry participants. Although skimming has not had a material impact on the profitability of MPS, it is possible that such activity could impact this division at some time in the future. 53 Table of Contents Part of our business depends on sales agents who do not sell our products exclusively. Our business model, to some degree, depends upon the use of sales agents who are not our employees. These agents sell the products and services of many different processors to merchants and other parties in need of a card services. Failure to maintain good relations with such sales agents could have a negative impact on our business. Products and services offered by MPS involve many business parties and the possibility of collusion exists. As described above, the theft of cardholder data is a significant threat in the industry in which MPS operates. This threat also includes the possibility that there is collusion between certain participants in the card system to act illegally. Although MPS is not aware of any instances to date, it is possible that such activities could occur in the future, thereby impacting its operation and profitability. Competition in the card industry is significant. In order to maintain an edge to its products and offerings, MPS must invest significantly in technology and research and development. The heavy emphasis upon technology in the products and services offered by MPS requires significant expenditures with respect to research and development both to exploit technological gains and to develop new products and services to meet customers’ needs. As is common with most research and development, while some efforts may yield substantial benefits for the division, others will not, thereby resulting in expenditures for which profits will not be realized. MPS is not able to predict with any degree of certainty as to the level of research and development that will be required in the future, how much those efforts will cost, or how profitable such developments will be for the division once undertaken. Discover, MasterCard, and Visa, as well as other electronic funds networks in which MPS operates, could change their rules. Pursuant to the agreements between MPS and Discover, MasterCard, Visa and other card networks, these third parties typically have retained the right to prescribe certain business practices and procedures with respect to parties such as MPS. Such prescribed terms include, but are not limited to, a contracting party’s level of capital as well as other business requirements. Discover, MasterCard, and Visa also retain the right in their agreements with industry participants such as MPS to unilaterally change the rules under which such transactions are processed with little or no advance warning. This power includes the power to prevent MPS from accessing their networks in order to process transactions. Should any third party choose to invoke this right unilaterally, such changes could materially impact the operations of the MPS division. Our business is heavily dependent upon the Internet and any negative disruptions to its operation could negatively impact our business. Much of our business depends upon transactions being processed through the Internet. Like nearly all other commercial enterprises, we rely upon others to provide the Internet so that commerce can be conducted. Were there to be a failure in the operation of the Internet or a significant impairment in our ability to move information on the Internet or our ability to do so in accordance with customer safeguard protocols, the MPS division would develop alternative processes during which time profitability may be somewhat lower. 54 Table of Contents Our ability to process transactions requires functioning communication and electricity lines. The nature of the credit card and debit card industry is that it must be operational every day of the week every hour of the week. Any disruption in the utilities utilized by MPS could have a negative effect on our operations and extensive disruptions could materially affect our operations. Data encryption technology has not been perfected and vigilance in Meta Payments Systems’ information technology systems is costly. MPS holds sensitive business and personal information with respect to the products and services it offers. This information, which is generally digitally encrypted, is passed along various technology channels, including the Internet. Although MPS encrypts its customer and other sensitive information and expends significant financial and personnel resources to maintain the integrity of its technology networks and the confidentiality of nonpublic customer information, because such information may travel on public technology and other non-secure channels, the confidential information is susceptible to hacking and other illegal intrusions. Were such a security breach to occur, the provision of products and services to Meta Payment System’s customers would be impaired and the division could incur significant fines from the electronic funds associations involved, significant regulatory fines imposed by federal and/or state regulators and other prohibitions, as well as extensive litigation from commercial parties and consumers affected by such breach. Unclaimed funds represented by unused value on the cards presents compliance and other risks. The notion of escheatment involves property that is abandoned and its rightful owner cannot be readily located and/or identified. In the context of prepaid cards, the funds represented on such cards can sometimes be “abandoned” or unused for the relevant period of time set forth in each applicable state’s abandoned property laws. Although MPS utilizes automated programs to ensure its operations are compliant with such applicable laws and regulations, there appears to be a movement among some state regulators to interpret definitions in those statutes and regulations in a manner that is different from standard industry interpretations. Should such state regulators choose to do so, they may initiate enforcement or other litigation action against prepaid card issuers such as Meta Payments Systems. MPS operates in a highly competitive environment and the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel may be difficult. MPS competes in a highly competitive environment with other larger and better capitalized financial intermediaries. In addition, the field of professionals involved in the design and production of products and services offered by MPS is highly skilled and actively sought after by financial institutions, electronic card networks and other commercial entities. As such, MPS must spend significant sums to attract employees and executives and must monitor compensation and other employment trends to ensure that compensation packages both foster the necessary creative environment and appropriately compensate such individuals in order to retain them. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 55 Table of Contents 