ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related To Our Business We have a history of net losses, expect to incur significant additional net losses and may never achieve or sustain profitability. We have incurred net losses since our inception in 1989. We incurred net losses of $66.5 million, $56.3 million, and $50.3 million years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $355.4 million. We expect to incur substantial additional net losses over the next several years as our research, development, preclinical testing, clinical trial and commercial activities increase, particularly with respect to our current lead product candidate, DX-88. We have not generated any revenue from product sales to date, and it is possible that we will never have significant, if any, product sales revenue. Currently, we generate revenue from collaborators through license and milestone fees, research and development funding, and maintenance fees that we receive in connection with the licensing of our phage display technology. To become profitable, we, either alone or with our collaborators, must successfully develop, manufacture and market our current product candidates, including DX-88, and other products and continue to leverage our phage display technology to generate research funding and licensing revenue. It is possible that we will never have significant product sales revenue or receive significant royalties on our licensed product candidates or licensed technology in order to achieve or sustain future profitability. We will need substantial additional capital in the future and may be unable to raise the capital that we will need to sustain our operations. We require significant capital to fund our operations and develop and commercialize our product candidates. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: •the progress of our drug discovery and development programs; •the timing and cost to develop, obtain regulatory approvals for and commercialize our product candidates, including the cost of developing sales and marketing capabilities prior to receipt of any regulatory approval of our product candidates; •maintaining or expanding our existing collaborative and license arrangements and entering into additional arrangements on terms that are favorable to us; •the amount and timing of milestone and royalty payments from our collaborators and licensees related to their progress in developing and commercializing products; •our decision to manufacture materials used in our product candidates; •competing technological and market developments; •the costs of prosecuting, maintaining, defending and enforcing our patents and other intellectual property rights; •the amount and timing of additional capital equipment purchases; and •the overall condition of the financial markets. We expect that existing cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments together with anticipated cash flow from existing product development, collaborations and license fees will be sufficient to support our current operations through at least 2009. We will need additional funds if our cash requirements exceed our current expectations or if we generate less revenue than we expect. 18 Table of Contents We may seek additional funding through our existing equity line of credit, collaborative arrangements and public or private financings. We may not be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or at all, and we may not be able to enter into additional collaborative arrangements. Arrangements with collaborators or others may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, product candidates or products. The terms of any financing may adversely affect the holdings or the rights of our stockholders and if we are unable to obtain funding on a timely basis, we may be required to curtail significantly our research, development or commercialization programs which could adversely affect our business prospects. Government regulation of drug development is costly, time consuming and fraught with uncertainty, and our products in development cannot be sold if we do not gain regulatory approval. We and our licensees and partners conduct research, preclinical testing and clinical trials for our product candidates. These activities are subject to extensive regulation by numerous state and federal governmental authorities in the United States, such as the FDA, as well as foreign countries, such as the EMEA in European countries, Canada and Australia. Currently, we are required in the United States and in foreign countries to obtain approval from those countries' regulatory authorities before we can manufacture (or have our third-party manufacturers produce), market and sell our products in those countries. The FDA and other U.S. and foreign regulatory agencies have substantial authority to fail to approve commencement of, suspend or terminate clinical trials, require additional testing and delay or withhold registration and marketing approval of our product candidates. Obtaining regulatory approval has been and continues to be increasingly difficult and costly and takes many years, and if obtained is costly to maintain. With the occurrence of a number of high profile safety events with certain pharmaceutical products, regulatory authorities, and in particular the FDA, members of Congress, the US Government Accountability Office (GAO), Congressional committees, private health/science foundations and organizations, medical professionals, including physicians and investigators, and the general public are increasingly concerned about potential or perceived safety issues associated with pharmaceutical and biological products, whether under study for initial approval or already marketed. This increasing concern has produced greater scrutiny, which may lead to fewer treatments being approved by the FDA or other regulatory bodies, as well as restrictive labeling of a product or a class of products for safety reasons, potentially including a boxed warning or additional limitations on the use of products, pharmacovigilance programs for approved products or requirement of risk management activities related to the promotion and sale of a product. We developed the protocol for our EDEMA4 clinical trial utilizing the FDA's Special Protocol Assessment, or SPA, process. This process is designed to provide a reasonable level of certainty to sponsors of investigational drugs that the FDA will not question the adequacy of a pivotal clinical trial once the related protocol has been reviewed and cleared by the FDA. However, the SPA process does not preclude the FDA from raising new concerns at any time during the review process, and applicable FDA regulation further provides that FDA can require trial design changes if there arises a substantial scientific issue essential to determining the safety or effectiveness of the drug. Consequently, the FDA may ultimately not accept our EDEMA4 trial design as adequate to support regulatory approval, regardless of the clinical results obtained. If regulatory authorities determine that we or our licensees or partners conducting research and development activities on our behalf have not complied with regulations in the research and development of a product candidate, new indication for an existing product or information to support a current indication, then they may not approve the product candidate or new indication or maintain approval of the current indication in its current form or at all, and we will not be able to market and 19 Table of Contents sell it. If we were unable to market and sell our product candidates, our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. The FDA may require us to perform additional post-approval clinical trials or take other potentially limiting or costly actions if we or others identify side effects after our products are on the market. The FDA may (i) require sponsors of products to conduct post-approval clinical studies to assess a known serious risk, signals of serious risk or to identify an unexpected serious risk; (ii) mandate labeling changes to products, at any point in a product's lifecycle, based on new safety information and (iii) require sponsors to implement a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) for a product which could include a medication guide, patient package insert, a communication plan to healthcare providers, or other elements as the FDA deems are necessary to assure safe use of the drug, which could include imposing certain restrictions on distribution or use of a product. Further, regulatory agencies could change existing, or promulgate new, regulations at any time which may affect our ability to obtain or maintain approval of our existing or future products or require significant additional costs to obtain or maintain such approvals. If we or others identify safety concerns before approval of the product or after a product is on the market, the regulatory agencies such as the FDA or EMEA may impose risk management activities upon us and/or may require additional or more extensive clinical trials or a pharmacovigilance program prior to the marketing approval of our product any of which could have a material adverse effect on sales of the affected products and on our business and results of operations. Regulatory agencies such as the FDA could require us to engage in risk management activities, possibly including a REMS, which could modify or restrict our promotional activities, restrict or encumber the ability of healthcare providers to prescribe, dispense or use our products or limit patient access to our products. If results from mandated clinical trials as part of a pharmacovigilance program are negative or any risk management activities resulted in decreased use of our products, it could have a material adverse effect on sales of the affected products and on our business and results of operations. Even if we obtain regulatory approval, our biopharmaceutical products will continue to be subject to governmental review. If we, or our suppliers, fail to comply with FDA or other government regulations, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be adversely affected. Even if regulatory approval is obtained, our biopharmaceutical products will continue to be subject to extensive and rigorous regulation by the FDA and comparable foreign authorities. These regulations govern, among other things, the manufacturing, labeling, storage, advertising, promotion, sale, and distribution of our products. Previously unidentified adverse events or an increased frequency of adverse events that may occur post-approval could result in labeling modifications of approved products, which could adversely affect future marketing. Approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or if problems occur following initial marketing. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, manufacturer or facility may result in the FDA and/or other regulatory agencies requiring further clinical research or restrictions on the product or the manufacturer, including withdrawal of the drug product from the market. In addition, the facilities used by our contract manufacturers to manufacture our product candidates must be approved by the FDA. If our contract manufacturers cannot successfully manufacture material that conforms to our specifications and the FDA's strict regulatory requirements, they will not be able to secure FDA approval for the manufacturing facilities. Our contract manufacturers will be subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies for compliance with cGMP and similar regulatory requirements. Failure by any of our contract manufacturers to comply with applicable regulations could 20 Table of Contents result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure to grant approval to market our product candidates, delays, suspensions or withdrawals of approvals, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our business. The restriction, suspension, or revocation of regulatory approvals or any other failure to comply with regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our biopharmaceutical product candidates must undergo rigorous clinical trials which could substantially delay or prevent their development or marketing. Before we can commercialize any biopharmaceutical product, we must engage in a rigorous clinical trial and regulatory approval process mandated by the FDA and analogous foreign regulatory agencies. This process is lengthy and expensive, and approval is never certain. Positive results from preclinical studies and early clinical trials do not ensure positive results in late stage clinical trials designed to permit application for regulatory approval. We cannot accurately predict when planned clinical trials will begin or be completed. Many factors affect patient enrollment, including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the trial, alternative therapies, competing clinical trials and new drugs approved for the conditions that we are investigating. For example, four other companies have been conducting clinical trials of treatments for HAE, and this may have caused delays in recruitment for our HAE trials. As a result of all of these factors, our future trials may take longer to enroll patients than we anticipate. Such delays may increase our costs and slow down our product development and the regulatory approval process. Our product development costs will also increase if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned. The occurrence of any of these events will delay our ability to commercialize products, generate revenue from product sales and impair our ability to become profitable, which may cause us to have insufficient capital resources to support our operations. Although we have estimated elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K when we might obtain regulatory approval of DX-88 for HAE, because of the risks and uncertainties in biopharmaceutical development, products that we or our collaborators develop could take a significantly longer time to gain regulatory approval than we expect or may never gain approval. If we or our collaborators do not receive these necessary approvals, we will not be able to generate substantial product or royalty revenues and may not become profitable. We and our collaborators may encounter significant delays or excessive costs in our efforts to secure regulatory approvals. Factors that raise uncertainty in obtaining these regulatory approvals include the following: •we must demonstrate through clinical trials that the proposed product is safe and effective for its intended use; •we have limited experience in conducting the clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approval; and •data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities are subject to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. Regulatory authorities may delay, suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time if they believe that the patients participating in trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or if they find deficiencies in the clinical trial procedures. Our IND Applications for our recombinant protein DX-88, for example, were placed on clinical hold by the FDA in May 2004, following the FDA's evaluation of certain animal test data submitted by us. Although that study was allowed to continue, we were required by the FDA to conduct additional testing at additional expense. There is no guarantee that we will be able to resolve similar issues in the future, either quickly, or at all. In addition, our or our 21 Table of Contents collaborators' failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements may result in criminal prosecution, civil penalties and other actions that could impair our ability to conduct our business. We lack experience in and/or capacity for conducting clinical trials, handling regulatory processes, and conducting sales and marketing activities. This lack of experience and/or capacity may adversely affect our ability to commercialize any biopharmaceuticals that we may develop. We have hired experienced clinical development and regulatory staff to develop and supervise our clinical trials and regulatory processes. However, we will remain dependent upon third party contract research organizations to carry out some of our clinical and preclinical research studies for the foreseeable future. As a result, we have had and will continue to have less control over the conduct of the clinical trials, the timing and completion of the trials, the required reporting of adverse events and the management of data developed through the trials than would be the case if we were relying entirely upon our own staff. Communicating with outside parties can also be challenging, potentially leading to mistakes as well as difficulties in coordinating activities. Outside parties may have staffing difficulties, may undergo changes in priorities or may become financially distressed, adversely affecting their willingness or ability to conduct our trials. For example, in 2008, the contract research organization collecting and assembling the data from our EDEMA4 trial announced that it was terminating that line of business, which forced us to find a new contractor and delay the filing of our BLA for HAE by almost two months. We may also experience unexpected cost increases that are beyond our control. Problems with the timeliness or quality of the work of a contract research organization may lead us to seek to terminate the relationship and use an alternative service provider. However, changing our service provider may be costly and may delay our trials, and contractual restrictions may make such a change difficult or impossible. Additionally, it may be impossible to find a replacement organization that can conduct our trials in an acceptable manner and at an acceptable cost. Similarly, we may be unable to enter into third party arrangements for the marketing and sale of biopharmaceuticals on acceptable terms. For certain products, we may incur substantial expenses to develop our own marketing and sales force in order to commercialize our biopharmaceuticals and our efforts may not be successful or the product may not be approved. As a result we may experience delays in the commercialization of our biopharmaceuticals and we may be unable to compete effectively which would adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. Because we currently lack the resources, capability and experience necessary to manufacture biopharmaceuticals, we will depend on third parties to perform this function, which may adversely affect our ability to commercialize any biopharmaceuticals we may develop. We do not currently operate manufacturing facilities for the clinical or commercial production of biopharmaceuticals and do not plan to have that capacity for the foreseeable future. We also lack the resources, capability and experience necessary to manufacture biopharmaceuticals. As a result, we will depend on collaborators, partners, licensees and other third parties to manufacture clinical and commercial scale quantities of our biopharmaceutical candidates in a timely and effective manner and in accordance with government regulations. If these third party arrangements are not successful, it would adversely affect our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval for or market our product candidates. We have identified only a few facilities that are capable of producing material for preclinical and clinical studies and we cannot assure you that they will be able to supply sufficient clinical materials during the clinical development of our biopharmaceutical candidates. There is no assurance that contractors will have the capacity to manufacture or test our products at the required scale and within 22 Table of Contents the required time frame or that the supply of clinical materials can be maintained during the clinical development of our biopharmaceutical candidates. We will be dependent on a single contract manufacturer to produce drug substance for DX-88 for HAE, if it is approved for sale. They will be subject to ongoing periodic inspection by the FDA and corresponding foreign agencies to ensure strict compliance with current good manufacturing practices and other governmental regulations and standards. We have limited control over our contract manufacturer maintaining adequate quality control, quality assurance and qualified personnel. Failure by our contract manufacturer to comply with or maintain any of these standards could adversely affect our ability to further develop, obtain regulatory approval for or market DX-88 and would adversely impact our business. If we are unable to find distributors for our DX-88 product candidate outside the United States, we may be unable to generate significant revenues from, or recoup our investments in, DX-88. We are familiar with the HAE patient community and its relatively small number of treating allergists, and we believe the optimal commercialization strategy for the HAE indication is to build an internal sales team to promote DX-88 in the United States and to establish regional collaborations for distribution in other major market countries. If we are not able to find a suitable distributor or distributors, or if we are unable to negotiate acceptable terms for distribution, we may not be able to fully develop and commercialize DX-88, which would adversely affect our business prospects and the value of our common stock. Failure to meet our Cowen Healthcare debt service obligations could adversely affect our financial condition and our loan agreement obligations could impair our operating flexibility. We entered into a Loan Agreement with Cowen Healthcare providing us with a loan of approximately $50 million, which has a principle balance of $48.1 million at December 31, 2008. The loan bears interest at a rate of 16% per annum payable quarterly and matures in August 2016. In connection with this loan, we have entered into a security agreement granting Cowen Healthcare a security interest in substantially all of the assets related to the LFRP. We are required to repay the loan based on a percentage of our LFRP related revenues, including royalties, milestones, and license fees received by us under the LFRP. If the LFRP revenues for any quarterly period are insufficient to cover the cash interest due for that period, the deficiency may be added to the outstanding principal or paid in cash by us. We may prepay the loan in whole or in part at any time after August 2011. In the event of certain changes of control or mergers or sales of all or substantially all of our assets, any or all of the loan may become due and payable at Cowen Healthcare's option, including a prepayment premium prior to August 2011. We must comply with certain loan covenants which if not observed could make all loan principal, interest and all other amounts payable under the loan immediately due and payable. Our obligations under the Cowen Healthcare agreement require that we dedicate a substantial portion of cash flow from our LFRP receipts to service the loan, which will reduce the amount of cash flow available for other purposes. If the LFRP fails to generate sufficient receipts to fund quarterly principal and interest payments to Cowen, we will be required to fund such obligations from cash on hand or from other sources, further decreasing the funds available to operate our business. In the event that amounts due under the loan were accelerated, payment would significantly reduce our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments and we may not have sufficient funds to pay the debt if any of it is accelerated. As a result of the security interest granted to Cowen Healthcare, we may not sell our rights to part or all of those assets, or take certain other actions, without first obtaining permission from Cowen. This requirement could delay, hinder or condition our ability to enter into corporate partnerships or strategic alliances with respect to these assets. 23 Table of Contents The obligations and restrictions under the Cowen Healthcare agreement may limit our operating flexibility, make it difficult to pursue our business strategy and make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business. If we fail to establish and maintain strategic license, research and collaborative relationships, or if our collaborators are not able to successfully develop and commercialize product candidates, our ability to generate revenues could be adversely affected. Our business strategy includes leveraging certain product candidates, as well as our proprietary phage display technology, through collaborations and licenses that are structured to generate revenues through license fees, technical and clinical milestone payments, and royalties. We have entered into, and anticipate continuing to enter into, collaborative and other similar types of arrangements with third parties to develop, manufacture and market drug candidates and drug products. In addition, for us to continue to receive any significant payments from our LFRP related licenses and collaborations and generate sufficient revenues to meet the required payments under our agreement with Cowen Healthcare, the relevant product candidates must advance through clinical trials, establish safety and efficacy, and achieve regulatory approvals and market acceptance. Reliance on license and collaboration agreements involves a number of risks as our licensees and collaborators: •are not obligated to develop or market product candidates discovered using our phage display technology; •may not perform their obligations as expected, or may pursue alternative technologies or develop competing products; •control many of the decisions with respect to research, clinical trials and commercialization of product candidates we discover or develop with them or have licensed to them; •may terminate their collaborative arrangements with us under specified circumstances, including, for example, a change of control, with short notice; and •may disagree with us as to whether a milestone or royalty payment is due or as to the amount that is due under the terms of our collaborative arrangements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current licensing and collaborative efforts, nor can we assure the success of any current or future licensing and collaborative relationships. An inability to establish new relationships on terms favorable to us, work successfully with current licensees and collaborators, or failure of any significant portion of our LFRP related licensing and collaborative efforts would result in a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Product liability and other claims against us may reduce demand for our product candidates or result in substantial damages. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to testing our product candidates in human clinical trials and will face even greater risks if we sell our product candidates commercially. An individual may bring a product liability claim against us if one of our product candidates causes, or merely appears to have caused, an injury. Moreover, in some of our clinical trials, we test our product candidates in indications where the onset of certain symptoms or "attacks" could be fatal. Although the protocols for these trials include emergency treatments in the event a patient appears to be suffering a potentially fatal incident, patient deaths may nonetheless occur. As a result, we may face additional liability if we are found or alleged to be responsible for any such deaths. 24 Table of Contents These types of product liability claims may result in: •decreased demand for our product candidates; •injury to our reputation; •withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers; •related litigation costs; and •substantial monetary awards to plaintiffs. Although we currently maintain product liability insurance, we may not have sufficient insurance coverage, and we may not be able to obtain sufficient coverage at a reasonable cost. Our inability to obtain product liability insurance at an acceptable cost or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of any products that we or our collaborators develop. If we are sued for any injury caused by our products or processes, then our liability could exceed our product liability insurance coverage and our total assets. We and our collaborators may not be able to gain market acceptance of our biopharmaceutical product candidates, which could adversely affect our revenues. We cannot be certain that any of our biopharmaceutical product candidates, even if successfully approved by the regulatory authorities, will gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors, or others. We may not achieve market acceptance even if clinical trials demonstrate safety and efficacy of our biopharmaceutical candidates and the necessary regulatory and reimbursement approvals are obtained. The degree of market acceptance of our biopharmaceutical candidates will depend on a number of factors, including: •their clinical efficacy and safety; •their cost-effectiveness; •their potential advantage over alternative treatment methods; •their marketing and distribution support; •reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors; and •market penetration and pricing strategies of competing and future products. If our products do not achieve significant market acceptance, our potential future revenues could be adversely affected which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Competition and technological change may make our potential products and technologies less attractive or obsolete. We compete in industries characterized by intense competition and rapid technological change. New developments occur and are expected to continue to occur at a rapid pace. Discoveries or commercial developments by our competitors may render some or all of our technologies, products or potential products obsolete or non-competitive. Our principal focus is on the development of human therapeutic products. We plan to conduct research and development programs to develop and test product candidates and demonstrate to appropriate regulatory agencies that these products are safe and effective for therapeutic use in particular indications. Therefore our principal competition going forward, as further described below, will be companies who either are already marketing products in those indications or are developing 25 Table of Contents new products for those indications. Many of our competitors have greater financial resources and experience than we do. For DX-88 as a treatment for HAE, our principal competitors include: •ViroPharma Inc.—In October 2008, ViroPharma received FDA approval for its plasma-derived C1-esterase inhibitor, known as Cinryze™, which is administered intravenously. Cinryze was approved for routine prophylaxis against angioedema attacks in adolescent and adult patients with HAE, and has orphan drug designation from the FDA. Cinryze was launched in December 2008. ViroPharma also submitted a supplemental Biologics License Application to the FDA in December 2008 for the use of Cinryze as a treatment for acute attacks of HAE, and their FDA PDUFA target action date is June 3, 2009. •Shire plc—Shire has filed for market approval from the FDA and EMEA for its bradykinin receptor antagonist, known as Firazyr®, which is delivered by subcutaneous injection. In July 2008, the European Commission approved an MAA for Firazyr. In April 2008, the FDA issued a Not Approvable letter for Firazyr. Firazyr has orphan drug designations from both the FDA and EMEA. Shire has announced plans to initiate a new Phase 3 clinical trial in 2009. •CSL Behring—CSL Behring currently markets Berinert®, a plasma-derived C1-esterase inhibitor that is approved for the treatment of HAE in several European countries. CSL Behring received an orphan drug designation from the FDA for its plasma-derived C1-esterase inhibitor and filed for market approval with the FDA. In December 2008, CSL Behring received a complete response letter from the FDA posing questions related to manufacturing and clinical sections of the application. •Pharming Group NV—Pharming filed for market approval from the EMEA for its recombinant C1-esterase inhibitor, known as Rhucin®, which is delivered intravenously. In December 2007 and March 2008, Pharming received negative opinions from the EMEA. Pharming announced plans to submit its MAA to the EMEA in mid-2009 and a BLA filing with the FDA during 2009. Rhucin has Fast Track status from the FDA and orphan drug designations from both the FDA and EMEA. Other competitors include companies that market or are developing corticosteroid drugs or other anti-inflammatory compounds. The principal competitors for DX-88 as a treatment for reducing blood loss in cardiothoracic surgery procedures, are manufacturers of aminocaproic acid, a drug used in this indication. A number of other organizations, including Novo Nordisk A/S, Vanderbilt University and The Medicines Company, are developing other products for this indication. For our potential oncology product candidates, our potential competitors include numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, many of which have greater financial resources and experience than we do. In addition, most large pharmaceutical companies seek to develop orally available small molecule compounds against many of the targets for which we and others are seeking to develop antibody, peptide and/or small protein products. Our phage display technology is one of several technologies available to generate libraries of compounds that can be leveraged to discover new antibody, peptide and/or small protein products. The primary competing technology platforms that pharmaceutical, diagnostics and biotechnology companies use to identify antibodies that bind to a desired target are transgenic mouse technology and the humanization of murine antibodies derived from hybridomas. Medarex, Inc., Genmab A/S, and PDL Biopharma are leaders in these technologies. Further, other companies such as BioInvent International 26 Table of Contents AB and XOMA Ltd. have access to phage display technology and compete with us by offering licenses and research services to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. In addition, we may experience competition from companies that have acquired or may acquire technology from universities and other research institutions. As these companies develop their technologies, they may develop proprietary positions that may prevent us from successfully commercializing our products. Our success depends significantly upon our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property protection for our products and technologies and upon third parties not having or obtaining patents that would prevent us from commercializing any of our products. We face risks and uncertainties related to our intellectual property rights. For example: •we may be unable to obtain or maintain patent or other intellectual property protection for any products or processes that we may develop or have developed; •third parties may obtain patents covering the manufacture, use or sale of these products or processes, which may prevent us from commercializing any of our products under development globally or in certain regions; or •our patents or any future patents that we may obtain may not prevent other companies from competing with us by designing their products or conducting their activities so as to avoid the coverage of our patents. The Company's patent rights relating to our phage display technology are central to our LFRP. As part of our LFRP, we generally seek to negotiate license agreements with parties practicing technology covered by our patents. In countries where we do not have and/or have not applied for phage display patent rights, we will be unable to prevent others from using phage display or developing or selling products or technologies derived using phage display. In addition, in jurisdictions where we have phage display patent rights, we may be unable to prevent others from selling or importing products or technologies derived elsewhere using phage display. Any inability to protect and enforce such phage display patent rights, whether by any inability to license or any invalidity of our patents or otherwise, could negatively affect future licensing opportunities and revenues from existing agreements under the LFRP. In all of our activities, we also rely substantially upon proprietary materials, information, trade secrets and know-how to conduct our research and development activities and to attract and retain collaborators, licensees and customers. Although we take steps to protect our proprietary rights and information, including the use of confidentiality and other agreements with our employees and consultants and in our academic and commercial relationships, these steps may be inadequate, these agreements may be violated, or there may be no adequate remedy available for a violation. Also, our trade secrets or similar technology may otherwise become known to, or be independently developed or duplicated by, our competitors. Before we and our collaborators can market some of our processes or products, we and our collaborators may need to obtain licenses from other parties who have patent or other intellectual property rights covering those processes or products. Third parties have patent rights related to phage display, particularly in the area of antibodies. While we have gained access to key patents in the antibody area through the cross licenses with Affimed Therapeutics AG, Affitech AS, Biosite Incorporated (now owned by Inverness Medical Innovations), Cambridge Antibody Technology Limited (now known as MedImmune Limited and owned by AstraZeneca), Domantis Limited (a wholly-owned subsidiary of GlaxoSmithKline), Genentech, Inc. and XOMA Ireland Limited, other third party patent owners may contend that we need a license or other rights under their patents in order for us to commercialize a process or product. In addition, we may choose to license patent rights from other 27 Table of Contents third parties. In order for us to commercialize a process or product, we may need to license the patent or other rights of other parties. If a third party does not offer us a needed license or offers us a license only on terms that are unacceptable, we may be unable to commercialize one or more of our products. If a third party does not offer a needed license to our collaborators and as a result our collaborators stop work under their agreement with us, we might lose future milestone payments and royalties, which would adversely affect us. If we decide not to seek a license, or if licenses are not available on reasonable terms, we may become subject to infringement claims or other legal proceedings, which could result in substantial legal expenses. If we are unsuccessful in these actions, adverse decisions may prevent us from commercializing the affected process or products and could require us to pay substantial monetary damages. We seek affirmative rights of license or ownership under existing patent rights relating to phage display technology of others. For example, through our patent licensing program, we have secured a limited freedom to practice some of these patent rights pursuant to our standard license agreement, which contains a covenant by the licensee that it will not sue us under certain of the licensee's phage display improvement patents. We cannot guarantee, however, that we will be successful in enforcing any agreements from our licensees, including agreements not to sue under their phage display improvement patents, or in acquiring similar agreements in the future, or that we will be able to obtain commercially satisfactory licenses to the technology and patents of others. If we cannot obtain and maintain these licenses and enforce these agreements, this could have a material adverse impact on our business. Proceedings to obtain, enforce or defend patents and to defend against charges of infringement are time consuming and expensive activities. Unfavorable outcomes in these proceedings could limit our patent rights and our activities, which could materially affect our business. Obtaining, protecting and defending against patent and proprietary rights can be expensive. For example, if a competitor files a patent application claiming technology also invented by us, we may have to participate in an expensive and time-consuming interference proceeding before the United States Patent and Trademark Office to address who was first to invent the subject matter of the claim and whether that subject matter was patentable. Moreover, an unfavorable outcome in an interference proceeding could require us to cease using the technology or to attempt to license rights to it from the prevailing party. Our business would be harmed if a prevailing third party does not offer us a license on terms that are acceptable to us. In patent offices outside the United States, we may be forced to respond to third party challenges to our patents. For example, our first phage display patent in Europe, European Patent No. 436,597, known as the 597 Patent, was ultimately revoked in 2002 in proceedings in the European Patent Office. We have one divisional patent application of the 597 Patent pending in the European Patent Office. We cannot be assured that we will prevail in the prosecution of this patent application. We will not be able to prevent other parties from using our phage display technology in Europe if the European Patent Office does not grant us another phage display patent. The issues relating to the validity, enforceability and possible infringement of our patents present complex factual and legal issues that we periodically reevaluate. Third parties have patent rights related to phage display, particularly in the area of antibodies. While we have gained access to key patents in the antibody area through our cross-licensing agreements with Affimed, Affitech, Biosite, Domantis, Genentech, XOMA and Cambridge Antibody Technology Limited (now known as MedImmune Limited), other third party patent owners may contend that we need a license or other rights under their patents in order for us to commercialize a process or product. In addition, we may choose to license patent rights from third parties. While we believe that we will be able to obtain any needed licenses, we cannot assure you that these licenses, or licenses to other patent rights that we identify as necessary in the future, will be available on reasonable terms, if at all. If we decide not to seek a license, or if licenses are not available on reasonable terms, we may become subject to infringement 28 Table of Contents claims or other legal proceedings, which could result in substantial legal expenses. If we are unsuccessful in these actions, adverse decisions may prevent us from commercializing the affected process or products. Moreover, if we are unable to maintain the covenants with regard to phage display improvements that we obtain from our licensees through our patent licensing program and the licenses that we have obtained to third party phage display patent rights, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. We would expect to incur substantial costs in connection with any litigation or patent proceeding. In addition, our management's efforts would be diverted, regardless of the results of the litigation or proceeding. An unfavorable result could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to cease manufacturing or selling the affected products or using the affected processes, require us to license the disputed rights from third parties or result in awards of substantial damages against us. Our business will be harmed if we cannot obtain a license, can obtain a license only on terms we consider to be unacceptable or if we are unable to redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement. In all of our activities, we substantially rely on proprietary materials and information, trade secrets and know-how to conduct research and development activities and to attract and retain collaborative partners, licensees and customers. Although we take steps to protect these materials and information, including the use of confidentiality and other agreements with our employees and consultants in both academic commercial relationships, we cannot assure you that these steps will be adequate, that these agreements will not be violated, or that there will be an available or sufficient remedy for any such violation, or that others will not also develop the same or similar proprietary information. Our revenues and operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past, and we expect this to continue in the future. Our revenues and operating results have fluctuated significantly on a quarter to quarter basis. We expect these fluctuations to continue in the future. Fluctuations in revenues and operating results will depend on: •the cost of our increased research and development, manufacturing and commercialization expenses; •the establishment of new collaborative and licensing arrangements; •the timing and results of clinical trials, including a failure to receive the required regulatory approvals to commercialize our product candidates; •the timing, receipt and amount of payments, if any, from current and prospective collaborators, including the completion of certain milestones; and •revenue recognition policies. Our revenues and costs in any period are not reliable indicators of our future operating results. If the revenues we receive are less than the revenues we expect for a given fiscal period, then we may be unable to reduce our expenses quickly enough to compensate for the shortfall. In addition, our fluctuating operating results may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. If we lose or are unable to hire and retain qualified personnel, then we may not be able to develop our products or processes. We are highly dependent on qualified scientific and management personnel, and we face intense competition from other companies and research and academic institutions for qualified personnel. If we lose an executive officer, a manager of one of our principal business units or research programs, or a significant number of any of our staff or are unable to hire and retain qualified personnel, then our 29 Table of Contents ability to develop and commercialize our products and processes may be delayed which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We use and generate hazardous materials in our business, and any claims relating to the improper handling, storage, release or disposal of these materials could be time-consuming and expensive. Our phage display research and development involves the controlled storage, use and disposal of chemicals and solvents, as well as biological and radioactive materials. We are subject to foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture and storage and the handling and disposal of materials and waste products. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these hazardous materials comply with the standards prescribed by laws and regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from hazardous materials. If an accident occurs, an injured party could seek to hold us liable for any damages that result and any liability could exceed the limits or fall outside the coverage of our insurance. We may not be able to maintain insurance on acceptable terms, or at all. We may incur significant costs to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations. Our business is subject to risks associated with international contractors and exchange rate risk. Since the closing of our European subsidiary operations in 2008, none of our business is conducted in currencies other than our reporting currency, the United States dollar. We do, however, rely on an international contract manufacturer for the production of our drug substance for DX-88. We recognize foreign currency gains or losses arising from our transactions in the period in which we incur those gains or losses. As a result, currency fluctuations among the United States dollar and the currencies in which we do business have caused foreign currency transaction gains and losses in the past and will likely do so in the future. Because of the variability of currency exposures and the potential volatility of currency exchange rates, we may suffer significant foreign currency transaction losses in the future due to the effect of exchange rate fluctuations. Compliance with changing regulations relating to corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Keeping abreast of, and in compliance with, changing laws, regulations, and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations, and NASDAQ Global Market rules, have required an increased amount of management attention and external resources. We intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving corporate governance and public disclosure standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. We may not succeed in acquiring technology and integrating complementary businesses. We may acquire additional technology and complementary businesses in the future. Acquisitions involve many risks, any one of which could materially harm our business, including: •the diversion of management's attention from core business concerns; •the failure to exploit effectively acquired technologies or integrate successfully the acquired businesses; •the loss of key employees from either our current business or any acquired businesses; and •the assumption of significant liabilities of acquired businesses. 30 Table of Contents We may be unable to make any future acquisitions in an effective manner. In addition, the ownership represented by the shares of our common stock held by our existing stockholders will be diluted if we issue equity securities in connection with any acquisition. If we make any significant acquisitions using cash consideration, we may be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash. If we issue debt securities to finance acquisitions, then the debt holders would have rights senior to the holders of shares of our common stock to make claims on our assets and the terms of any debt could restrict our operations, including our ability to pay dividends on our shares of common stock. Acquisition financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, we may be required to amortize significant amounts of intangible assets in connection with future acquisitions. We might also have to recognize significant amounts of goodwill that will have to be tested periodically for impairment. These amounts could be significant, which could harm our operating results. Risks Related To Our Common Stock Our common stock may continue to have a volatile public trading price and low trading volume. The market price of our common stock has been highly volatile. Since our initial public offering in August 2000 through February 20, 2009, the price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market has ranged between $54.12 and $1.05. The market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations for many reasons, some of which may be unrelated to our operating performance. Many factors may have an effect on the market price of our common stock, including: •public announcements by us, our competitors or others; •developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents and litigation matters; •publicity regarding actual or potential clinical results or developments with respect to products or compounds we or our collaborators are developing; •regulatory decisions in both the United States and abroad; •public concern about the safety or efficacy of new technologies; •issuance of new debt or equity securities; •general market conditions and comments by securities analysts; and •quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and financial results. While we cannot predict the individual effect that these factors may have on the price of our common stock, these factors, either individually or in the aggregate, could result in significant variations in price during any given period of time. Anti-takeover provisions in our governing documents and under Delaware law and our shareholder rights plan may make an acquisition of us more difficult. We are incorporated in Delaware. We are subject to various legal and contractual provisions that may make a change in control of us more difficult. Our board of directors has the flexibility to adopt additional anti-takeover measures. Our charter authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the terms of those shares of stock without any further action by our stockholders. If the board of directors exercises this power to issue preferred stock, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Our charter also provides staggered terms for the members of our board of directors. This may prevent stockholders from replacing the entire board in a single proxy contest, making it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us without the consent of our board of directors. Our equity incentive plans generally permit our board of 31 Table of Contents directors to provide for acceleration of vesting of options granted under these plans in the event of certain transactions that result in a change of control. If our board of directors used its authority to accelerate vesting of options, then this action could make an acquisition more costly, and it could prevent an acquisition from going forward. Our shareholder rights plan could result in the significant dilution of the proportionate ownership of any person that engages in an unsolicited attempt to take over our company and, accordingly, could discourage potential acquirers. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a person from engaging in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock until the holder has held the stock for three years unless, among other possibilities, the board of directors approves the transaction. This provision could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of Dyax, whether or not it is desired by or beneficial to our stockholders. The provisions described above, as well as other provisions in our charter and bylaws and under the Delaware General Corporation Law, may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire our company, even if the acquisition attempt was at a premium over the market value of our common stock at that time. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 